I ask the permission of the Senate to make a statement. 
Leave granted. 
During the absence of the Prime Minister, the Right Honorable William Hughes, in England, the following arrangements have been made as to the allocation of Ministerial duties: -  Senator Pearce,  Acting Prime Minister. The Honorable Hugh Mahon, Acting Attorney-General. All matters in connexion with the wheat scheme, war precautions, prices adjustment regulations to be controlled by the Assistant Minister,  Senator Russell.  Matters under the sugar agreement to be administered by the Commonwealth Treasurer. " On the 26th November, 1915, the Commonwealth Government cabled to the Imperial Authorities offering to increase its contribution of troops by 50,000, and also undertaking to supply each month the necessary reinforcements. On the basis upon which reinforcements were then required it was calculated that, with the additional number named in this offer, Australia would have raised by the end of June. 1916, for active service abroad 286,000 men. 
On the17th February, 1916, the War Office cabled advising that the percentage of reinforcements required was substantially reduced. 
On the 28th January, 1916, the Secretary of State for the Colonies cabled that- 
As a result of communication with the General Officer Commanding in Egypt, and on further consideration of the offer of the Commonwealth Government conveyed in the cable of the 26th November to provide three additional Australian Divisions. . . . War Office suggest that as there is at present in Egypt  a  large accumulation of Australian and New 
Zealand  personnel,  surplus to the establishment existing Divisions, the formation of two of the three additional Australian Divisions should be begun in Egypt at once. ... it is hoped that your Government will agree in principle to these proposals. 
On the 30th January, 1916, General Birdwood, the General Officer Commanding, cabled expressing the hope that the suggestion, contained in the War Office cable, for the organization of two Divisions in Egypt, and one only in Australia, be adopted and put in hand at once, and stating that the question of the disposal of the large accumulation of reinforcements and returned convalescents in Egypt was urgent, and, in the interest of the discipline, well-being and training of the troops of the Commonwealth, required early settlement. 
On the 2nd February the Commonwealth Government cabled the Secretary of State for the Colonies agreeing to the War Office proposals. 
On the same date General Birdwood was informed of the Government's decision, and he replied as follows on the following day: - 
Thank you very much for your cable of February 2nd. Am most grateful for all the consideration which has been shown me. 
These communications had an important effect on the numbers which it was contemplated would have been required, and also on the period over which they would have to be raised, as they meant that, in order to comply with the promise of the Government as modified at the request of the War Office, 209,000 troops would require  to  be despatched by the end of June, 1916. It will be seen that these modifications were made at the request and on the suggestion of the War Office, and were not proposed by the Commonwealth Government. At the same time, the Government does not take the view that its offer of the 26th November exhausts the possibilities of Australia so far as contribution of fighting troops is concerned, and, as Acting Prime Minister, I have, In statements made, endeavoured to make this point clear, and have appealed to the various recruiting organizations throughout the Commonwealth to continue their efforts to gain recruits. 
The latest available figures show that up to the 6th May, 1916, there had embarked from Australia 189,000 troops, and there were in training throughout Australia approximately 62,000, making a total of 251,000. Divided into military districts the figures work out as follow: - 

<graphic href="079332191605096_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

The following cable has been received from the Secretary of State for the Colonies, dated London, 8th May, 1916: - 
With reference to my telegram May 3rd news may now be published that Australian and New Zealand troops have arrived in France and taken over a portion of the front. 
On the 12th April, 1916, the Federal Government referred to the Federal Parliamentary War Committee the following minute : - 
While Government takes entire responsibility for deciding as to voluntary or compulsory service, and does not invite the Federal Parliamentary War Committee to make any recommendation thereon, it is desired to ascertain from the Committee whether, in view of the necessity of efficiently maintaining our industrial and commercial life, together with the responsibilities of Australia in this war, and in comparison with the contributions of other Dominions, the Committee is of the opinion that the Commonwealth is adequately represented at the front. The Committee is, therefore, invited to offer any advice or recommendation with a view to the improvement of the present system of recruiting.' 
On the above the Federal Parliamentary War Committee made the following recommendation : - 
The Committee notes that the Government does not submit to it the question of voluntary service as compared with universal compulsory service. The Committee, without expressing any views on the question of the comparative contributions of the other Dominions, is of the opinion that Australia is not adequately represented at the front. It recommends that the Government fix an early date for a minimum number of new recruits, accompanied by a public intimation that if the number be not forthcoming by the specified date the whole question of the voluntary system will be reviewed. 
The Commonwealth Government cannot see its way to adopt this recommendation for the following reasons : - 
It cannot be definitely stated how long the war is likely to last ; consequently the time within which Australia will be required to send men to the front is indefinite. It is pointed out that, in the early stages of the war, it was urged upon the Government to fix upon a definite number - 100,000 - as the contribution of the Commonwealth to the Empire. If this suggestion had been adopted, it would, without any doubt, have had a disastrous effect on recruiting, because, when the number decided upon had been raised, it would have been contended that Australia had fulfilled its obligations. The same objection holds good now against fixing any definite number. 
The Government cannot agree to fix a definite date after which it will promise to reconsider the whole question of voluntary enlistment. There are reasons, which are confidential, why a date should not now be fixed. 
The Prime Minister of the Commonwealth, is at present in the United Kingdom in the closest consultation with the Imperial authorities. He will shortly return to the Commonwealth, and will, no doubt, have very full information both as regards the military position, and also as regards other factors which peculiarly affect the Commonwealth in connexion therewith. These factors are of such a nature that they cannot be stated publicly, and the Government, therefore, invites members of both Houses and both parties to assemble in the Senate clubroom at 8 p.m. to-night, when, as Acting Prime Minister, I will make a fuller statement as to the position." 
As to the business of the Parliament, it is proposed that in the House ofRepresentatives the Treasurer shall make his Budget speech for the financial year ending June, 1916, the debate upon which can be adjourned. 
It is proposed to introduce and pass a Supply Bill for one month for the payment of salaries, &amp;c., falling due this week, and it is proposed to introduce a further Supply Bill at a later stage to cover any adjournment that may be decided upon. 
If the Houses are willing to pass the Estimates within a reasonable time, it is suggested that the general debate on questions of policy and administration could take place thereon. 
Other Bills to be considered will be: - 
A Bill to amend the War Pensions Act, to make provision for the relatives and dependants of deceased or incapacitated soldiers. 
A Bill for a further war loan. 
A Bill to provide for the appointment of trustees for the Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Fund, and for the regulation of the fund. 
A Bill to provide for the taxation of war profits. 
A Bill to make provision for the difficulty caused by the expiry of the term of the Public Service Commissioner's appointment. 
Some other Bills amending existing war legislation, of an urgent character, may be required. 
It is then proposed to adjourn until the return of the Prime Minister to Australia. 
In concluding, may I point out to honorable senators the rather interesting fact that we are reassembling to-day on the anniversary of the assembling of the first Commonwealth Parliament. I lay the statement relating to Australia's contribution of troops upon the table, and move - 
That the paper be printed. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Millen)  adjourned. 
I would like to know from the Acting Prime Minister when honorable senators will be supplied with copies of the Bills which the Government propose to introduce ? 
I hope to have copies of all the Bills to-morrow, and they will be available for circulation when leave to introduce them has been given. 
I desire to ask the Acting Prime Minister whether he has noticed the statement appearing in the press, and carrying with it the authority of tha American Consular representative, that Australian prisoners in Turkish hands are suffering some privation in custody; and whether he is considering the possibility of improving the present means of affording relief to them? 
That matter came up to-day, and we are making arrangements for the sum of 6s. per week - which is the maximum payment that the Turkish Government will allow to be forwarded - to be sent to each of the prisoners who are under Turkish control. 
The Government will give that matter consideration. 
I ask the Acting Prime Minister if, in view of the important part of his statement dealing with the arrival in France of members of the Australian and New Zealand Expeditionary Forces, and seeing that there are in Australia a large number of men who, while expressing their regret that they are over the age limit for enlistment, are advocating conscription, the Government have taken into consideration the desirableness of communicating with the French Government with the idea of enabling such persons who are between the ages of forty-five and fifty-five years of age, to enlist under the French Government? 
As the transfer of troops from Egypt to France involves a change of address, will the Minister take an early opportunity of making public a central address in France, such as the men had in Egypt, to which letters may be forwarded? 
Does the Minister think it right that soldiers in uniform, particularly those who have done their part in the war, should be engaged at recruiting meetings? Would it not be better, in the interests of the soldiers and of the Department to leave those duties to civilians? 
Many of the questions and answers this afternoon, particularly the last, have not been in accordance with the Standing Orders, which provide that a question must be asked only to obtain, and answered only to give, information. Many of the questions and answers this afternoon have been largely argumentative; and if this were permitted, arguments could go on interminably, by means of questions without notice. Ample opportunities to debate these matters will be afforded later. 
Is the wearing of military uniform of any grade or rank by unauthorized persons a punishable offence? Does the Minister know that  certain photographers in Australia announce that they are prepared to take soldiers in uniform, and have uniforms available if the sitters do not happen to have them with them ? Would a photographer who provided a uniform for an unauthorized civilian to be photographed in, be equally punishable with the civilian? 
If the photographer in such a case is not punishable, will the Minister have a regulation framed to meet cases where civilians are induced to masquerade as soldiers! 
Has the Minister noticed a public statement by Colonel Springthorpe that young men were failures at the front; that men of nineteen and twenty years of ago could not stand the physical and mental strain, and that he saw boys not much over seventeen years of age who, it was considered, would never, owing to shock and strain, be the same again? Is that opinion supported by other medical men of practical experience, or by officers in high command ? If it is, do the Government think it wise to send immature youths abroad in the Expeditionary Forces ? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister of Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
What is. the number and value (exclusive of improvements) of freehold estates or estates in process of alienation in each of the six States of the Commonwealth as disclosed by the War Census Wealth and Income cards - 
The manner in which the returns under the War Census were furnished- make it very difficult to supply the information in the form desired by the honorable senator, but the 
Minister will consult with tha Commonwealth Statistician tot see what can be done in the desired direction. 
I ask the Assistant Minister whether a regulation has been issued protecting from seizure for debt the personal effects of dependants of soldiers? Will the Minister try and secure the wide publication, by advertisement or otherwise, of such a regulation if in existence? 
The honorable senator's questions refer to a regulation under the War Precautions Act. Action has been taken in the matter referred to, and regulation 47 reads as follows: - 
No person shall, under the bill of sale or writ of execution, or process issued by a Court, or by way of distress, seize or take possession of - (a)any chattels which are used by any female dependant of any member of a force raised forservice beyond Australia to support or assist in supporting herself or any of the family of suchmember; or 
any furniture or wearing apparel belonging to any such member or female dependant; provided that if the furniture and wearing apparel belonging to such member and his female dependant exceed in value £50, any articles may be seized and taken possession of under due authority of aw if the articles remaining are not  less  in value than £50. 
If any person contravenes the provisions of this paragraph, ho shall be guilty of an offence against the Act. 3.For the purpose of this paragraph, female dependant shall mean any female who is wholly or partly dependent for her support upon the pay of amember of a force raised for service beyond Australia. 
I may say that since the issue of that regulation a further regulation has been framed, and is in force, but I am not at present in possession of a copy of it. It extends the same protection to furniture or articles with which a person earns a living if purchased on the time-payment principle. 
It has been published in the press, and has been in force for some time. 
I shall try to give publicity to the regulations in some way or another. 
I desire, without notice, to ask the Minister representing the Minister of Home Affairs, in connexion with a question which I put pursuant to notice yesterday, whether he thinks it is a fair thing that, after I had given about six months' notice of my question, it should be evaded in the way it was by the answer he gave yesterday  V 
Order! The honorable senator is not permitted under cover of a question without notice to enter upon an argument with the Minister as to whether the reply given to hie question was a proper or an improper one. He is entitled to ask a question, but not to make insinuations or statements in asking it. 
What is the number and value (exclusive of improvements) of freehold estates or estates in process of alienation in each of the six States of the Commonwealth, as disclosed by the war census wealth and income cards - 

<graphic href="079332191605100_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

In reply to that question I was informed yesterday that - 
The manner in which the returns under the war census were furnished makes it very difficult to supply the information in the form desired by the honorable senator; but the Minister will consult the Commonwealth Statistician to see what can be done in the desired direction. 
Has the Minister, in the meantime, consulted with the Commonwealth Statistician, and, if not, why not, and when is it his intention to do so? 
The reply given yesterday to  Senator Grant's  question was the best we were able to give, owing tothe returns not being in the form in which his question was stated. Now that the clerical work in connexion with the war census has slackened, an endeavour will be made to secure, not an exact return in the terms of the honorable senator's question, because that is impossible, but a return supplying figures as nearly as possible on the lines desired by the honorable senator. He must have a little patience, because his question involves a very big job. 
Has the Acting Prime Minister noticed the statement by  Mr. Herbert  Brookes,  president  of the Chamber of Manufactures, at the meeting of the Victorian Chamber, as reported in yesterday's  Age,  as follows: - 
In the opinion of many members of the Chamber, professional unionism was becoming a caste, which was quite as offensive as the military caste in Germany which had led to the present war. If he were asked calmly which of the two castes he would prefer to live under, his answer would be that he would infinitely prefer the military tyranny of Germany to the tyranny of industrial unionism. 
Why was this statement not censored? Will the Minister consider the advisability of taking steps under the War Precautions Act to deal with  Mr. Brookes? 
I have not seen the statement referred to. As I heard it read, it does not appear to me to disclose any evidence of an offence against the War Precautions Act. However, it may offend one's idea of common sense. I do not think that any prosecution would lie against  Mr. Brookes  under the War Precautions Act for the statement, but I shall  be glad to look into it if the honorable senator will let me have it. 
It has been the practice in the Senate, when the Budgetpapers are presented in another place and brought forward here, to lay them upon the table, and a motion that they be printed is moved by the Minister presenting them. I bring forward the Estimates of revenue and expenditure for 1915-16 and the Budget-papers prepared by the  Hon.  William Guy Higgs for the information of honorable senators in connexion with the Budget for 1915-16. I move - 
That the Estimates 1915-16 and Budgetpapers be printed. 
The motion will give honorable senators an opportunity of saying what they wish about matters of administration or policy, and possibly obviate the necessity of debating at length the Bill for one month's supply, which has just come up from another place, where it was passed without debate. In any case another Supply Bill must be brought forward before Parliament can adjourn, and this will give honorable senators a still further opportunity to express their opinions. The fol lowing table  shows  the principal figures of the Budget: - 

<graphic href="079332191605100_2_0.jpg"></graphic>

The amount of £47,567,026 included a sum of £4,000,000, representing advances to the States against flotation of loan in London. Defence expenditure, Naval and Military, including all items, amounts to not less than £49 , 861,975. After providing for an expenditure of £76,057,626, we shall have a balance of war loan moneys to be carried to next year of £13,034,534. The estimated decrease in the land tax receipts is an indication, not of depreciation in land values, but of the breaking up of large estates, bringing them below the taxable value. The probate and succession duties will be in full operation this year, as against only a part of last year. We all regret the necessity for continued expenditure at such a high rate, but every one knows it is an unavoidable part of the terrible duty which we, in common with all civilized countries, have to discharge. Another feature of the Budget is the large sum which Australia has shown itself capable of raising within its own boundaries for the prosecution of the war. This has encouraged the Government to believe that the same resourcefulness and patriotism will show itself during the coming year in providing the sinews of war to carry on the struggle. I must express regret that I was unable, owing to the Senate rising earlier than the other House yesterday, to have the papers tabled here at the same time as the Budget was tabled in another place. Our Navy is still playing a very important part, not only in keeping the sea clear for British and Allied commerce, but also in assisting the transport of our soldiers to the other end of the world. We may justly feel proud that there has been practically no serious accident to our huge fleet of transports since the war began. The greater number are manned by Australians, and their unseen work, which is not chronicled in the newspapers and not generally heard of by the public, must constitute one of the records of which this country has the right to feel proud. Australia has nothing to reproach itself with in the part it has played during the last year. On the contrary, it has every reason to feel proud of what it has done, and I believe its efforts are being continued now as vigorously as at any previous period of the war. That there is no slackening in the determination of the people of Australia to see the war through to a successful termination is demonstrated both by the number of men still offering themselves, and by the way in which the financial needs of the Commonwealth are being met. The outlook calls for thought as to whether during the coming year we can maintain the expenditure on public works throughout the Commonwealth and States at the same rate as in the past, and the fact must also be faced that if we are to depend on our own financial resources we must do everything possible to stimulate Australian production and encourage a spirit of resourcefulness and economy among our own people. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Millen)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister of Defence,  upon notice - 
Is it not an offence for an unauthorized person to wear an Australian military uniform ? 
Is it also an offence for photographers to provide such uniforms for sitters who are not soldiers ? 
If not, will the Minister take steps to provide for such cases? 
The answers are - 
Under section 83 of the Defence Act 1903-15, any person who, not being a member of the Defence Force, wears any uniform of the Defence Force, or any colourable imitation thereof, is liable to a penalty not exceeding Ten pounds. Provided that this section shall not prevent any person from wearing any such uniform in the course of a stage play, a music hall or circus performance, a ball, or a  bond fide  military representation. 
Regulation 42 under the War Precautions Act 1914-15 provides that if any unauthorized person wears any naval, military, police, or other official uniform or badge, or any uniform or badge so nearly resembling such uniform or badge as aforesaid as to be calculated to deceive, or if any person without lawful authority supplies a naval or military uniform or badge to any person not being a member of His Majesty's Forces, or any such badge as aforesaid to any person not authorized to wear same,he shall be guilty of an offence against the Act. 
asked the Acting 
Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Whether he is correctly reported by the press as having said - " A soldier is a soldier, and ought not to be allowed to take part in public meetings either for or against conscription "? 
Whether men who enlist are deprived of their rights as private citizens? 
My reply to a deputation from a conference of the Australian Peace Alliance was in reference to a statement made by a member of the deputation that soldiers were being paid 8s. per day by the Universal Service League for the purpose of acting as advocates of conscription, and my remarks were intended to mean that I did not approve of a soldier being used in that way either for or against conscription whilst drawing military pay. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Why has a magazine, called  Ross's Magazine  been refused transmission through the post? 
 Ross's Magazine  has not been refused transmission through the post, but certain copies which contained matter in contravention of the law were stopped. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
What is the position of the joint tenderers for the Tasmanian mail contract with regard to the new steam-ship  Nairana,  which has not been supplied to time? 
Are the joint tenderers receiving the same amount of subsidy as previously? 
Will the Postmaster-General request the tenderers to equip the ancient steam-ship  Rotomahana  with wireless telegraphy in justice to those who are compelled to travel by her? 
The answers  are - 
The contractors report that they are advised the vessel in question cannot be completed at present owing to naval exigencies. 
( The contract provides that the higher subsidy is not to be paid until the new steamer is placed in the service. 
The Postmaster-General will make representations in the direction indicated. 
asked the Assistant Minister,  upon notice - 
In view of the present unsatisfactory position of bread, flour, and wheat prices in Tasmania, when does the Minister propose to send the Prices Adjustment Board to that State? 
At the earliest possible moment. At a meeting of the Board to be held to-day that question is to be discussed. 
asked the Minister of Defence,  upon notice - 
Whether he has noticed the public statement of Colonel Springthorpe, to the effect that young men at the front were a failure; that mon of 19 and 20 years could not stand the strain, physical and mental; that he saw boys not much over 17 years of age who, it was considered, would never be the same again, through shock and strain? 
Whether that opinion of Colonel Springthorpe is generally supported by other medical men of practical experience and responsible officers in high command? 
If so, docs not the Government think it is time that the cause of this injury and waste of life - voluntary service - should be abandoned forthwith? 
The answers are - 
Yes. 
No. Senior Medical Officers, including Director of Medical Services, Australian im-pcrio.1 Force, are opposed generally to.the views of Colonel Springthorpe. The Examining Officers are instructed to exercise the greatest care to avoid enlisting recruits who are not considered sufficiently mature to withstand the strain of active service. 
See reply to 2. 
asked the Minister of Defence,  upon notice - 
What rights of appeal (if any) are given to soldiers in the Citizen or Australian Imperial Forces under the Commonwealth Defence Act against sentences of courts martial? 
Does a similar section to section 100 in the Commonwealth Defence Act (which takes away the right of appeal from the sentence of a court martial by way of  certiorari)  exist in the British Army Act? 
If not, why was it inserted in the Australian Act? 
Why should the Australian soldier have more restricted rights of appeal than the soldiers of Great Britain? 
If the Commonwealth Defence Act takes away  certiorari,  and the British Army Act does not- - 
When and under what Government was such a section inserted in the Aus. tralian Act? 
At whose instigation? 
For what purpose? 
Is it intended to repeal the above-named section, so as to give our soldiers rights coequal with the British soldier in connexion with appeals from the sentences of courts martial? 
Certain legal questions are involved, and a reply will be given to the honorable member as soon as I am in a position to do so. 
Yea. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister of Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
How long will the stoppage of work, through shortage of rails, continue on the transcontinental railway ? 
What is the actual position in the matter of supply of rails for the completion of that work? 
The answers are - 
It is anticipated that plate-laying will recommence at the western end about the end of June. 
The actual position with regard to supply of rails at the western end of the transcontinental railway is as follows: - At the end of June we should have 66 miles in stock or on the way, excluding short rails which are kept forsidings; and the Broken Hill Proprietary Company have undertaken to supply a minimum quantity of 3,000 tons per month, with a maximum of three-fifths of their output. The company is at present 22,000 tons, or 176 miles behind in their deliveries of rails and 231 miles behind in the supply of fishplates. 
The total brokerage paid to members of stock exchanges is £34,034 19s. 
I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the Bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
This is the measure I referred to a few minutes ago as the Bill containing the ordinary Supply for the year. The motion for the printing of the Budget-papers will give honorable senators an opportunity to-morrow to discuss questions of administration and policy. 
I am in the unfortunate position of being compelled to make the usual complaint. The Government comes down at the last hour with the Estimates, and asks us to suspend the Standing Orders so that they may be rushed through without discussion. 
It applies to the expenditure for the current year. 
The trouble is, that when we do get an opportunity of discussing these matters the money will have been spent, and any objections we may raise will simply be so much wasted energy. It is high time we had some business-like way of dealing with our finances.Therewasampleopportunity to discuss these matters, but that opportunity was not given to us. We have not been treated fairly in this connexion for many years. It was the same under the old Liberal or Conservative Government as it is now. I expected, of course, that when we had a Labour Government in power this matter would be dealt with differently, but we find the old system is being continued, and it seems to me that Ministers are in the hands of the permanent officials of the Government, who are largely responsible for the delay that takes place in dealing with the Estimates. Every honorable senator should be given an opportunity of discussing the financial concerns of Australia, more particularly at a time like this, when we are in serious trouble. I am opposed to the suspension of the Standing Orders, and I tope that the Acting Prime -Minister will not insist on that course being adopted, because it is necessary that honorable senators should have every opportunity of dealing in a painstaking way with our financial concerns. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
.- I move - 
That this Bill he now read a first time. 
This is an ordinary monthly Supply Bill, on the same basis as previous Supply Bills which the Senate has been asked to pass. It contains no new items and no controversial items. It is simply a Bill to provide for the salaries of the Public Service at the same rate as provided for in the Supply Bills which have been passed from time to time. The total Supply provided for in Supply Bills 1 to 4 already passed for the present financial year amounts to £48,254,393. This Bill, which is Supply Bill No. 5, provides for £1,818,905, and will bring the total to the 31st May, 1916, to £50,073,298.  Senator Stewart  will see that we shall still require to make provision for another month's Supply before the financial year has expired. That will, of course, be met by the Budget which is coming forward. I regret, as much as anybody, that the exigencies of the situation compel, not merely the Government, but Parliament, to be in the position of having to consider the Budget at the end of the financial year, but any one who looks over the past year will be aware that that is due to circumstances beyond the control of the Government. It was not possible previously to bring the Budget forward. Honorable senators must recognise that the circumstances of the war have completely upset the arrangements made in a normal year for carrying on the work of Parliament. There is one thing, however, whichthe Government will make an effort to do. We are already at work on the new Budget for the next financial year. We shall try to introduce that Budget at an early date, so that Parliament may have an opportunity to deal with it when the proposals are new and before it has been asked to vote any considerable proportion of the money. I appeal to honorable senators to restrict discussion upon this Bill as much as possible, because the money is required this week. I point out that on the motion for the printing of the Budget-papers they will have full scope to discuss any question which could be discussed on the Supply Bill. 
I wish to direct attention to only one matter in connexion with this Bill. I invite honorable senators to compare the Supply Bills, and, indeed, the Estimates, of the last two years, when they will recognise that there is a growing tendency on the part of the Departments to crowd together under the head of " Contingencies " quite a number of items which would be better disclosed in detail. Contingencies are quite necessary items, because we all recognise that the Departments must have some little elbow room. A contingency item is a most convenient term, and I do not suggest that it should be eliminated, but it seems to me that, considering the steady growth of the figures covered by contingencies, there is growing up in the Departments a habit of throwing together under this convenientleading many items, the details of which ought to be disclosed in the papers submitted to Parliament. For instance, on one page of the schedule to the Bill, under the heading " The Treasury," honorable senators will find salaries set down at £340 and contingencies at £2,000. In another place there is £900 down for salaries and £6,000 for contingencies. Under the heading ""War Pensions" there is no vote for salaries, but £1,000 for contingencies. In another place there is £500 for salaries and £1,400 for contingencies, and in still another place £1,100 for salaries and £8,600 for contingencies. If honorable senators will look over the different votes they will find that there is a total of £40,000 for contingencies under the heading "Postal Department, New South Wales." I admit again that votes for contingencies must appear in these Supply Bills', but I direct the attention of Ministers and the Senate to the growing habit to which I have referred. The figures covering contingencies are becoming so big that I venture to express the opinion that these votes must contain very many items which ought to be disclosed separately. 
I have the same complaint to make as that given utterance to by  Senator Millen.  The position is that Parliament has entirely lost control of the finances. The spending of money is entirely in the hands of the Government until almost the end of the financial year. That is contrary to all the rules and pre cepts of good government. What ought to take place is that the Government should present their financial proposals early in the financial year. Those proposals should run the gantlet of Parliament before any considerable portion of the money to be voted has been spent, but the contrary is now the case, and, unfortunately, has been the case for many years past. This ought not to be allowed to continue. If we take the matter of contingencies referred to by  Senator Millen,  we have some cases in which the vote for salaries amounts to £900, and the vote for contingencies, under the same head, to £6,000. How are honorable senators to discover how the £6,000 is to be spent? 
I can look at the Estimates now, but I only received them this moment. 
-Ihadnotthe Bill in my hand until the present moment, and had not time in which to look up last year's Estimates. 
The Government should present the Estimates, not at the end, but at the beginning of the financial year. Under the present system we can exercise no supervision whatever over expenditure. We were sent here for the very purpose, amongst others, to see that the revenue paid into the Treasury by the people of Australia is spent in a proper manner. We have no opportunity now afforded us to do so. I am not addressing these remarks particularly to the Government, but to honorable senators generally, who, if they please, can alter this state of affairs. The question is, do honorable senators desire to know anything about the revenue or expenditure of the Government, or are they content merely to say yes to anything the Government proposes? If they are inclined to let things slide in this way they will continue to do so. But if they are prepared to take up the position which every member of Parliament should take up, they will insist that the Estimates for 1916-17 shall be brought in at an early stage of that financial year, so that they may have an opportunity to examine the expenditure proposals of the Government. 
I hope so, but I have heard these promises made so many times that I am beginning to become a little sceptical about them. Looking over the Estimates I find that a large number of increases have been given during the present financial year to highly-paid members of the Public Service.I object to that. I think that at a time like the present, when the resources of the country have been strained to the utmost, these increases should not be given. 
I could not say just now what officers have received them. 
They will be paid out of the money we vote now. Looking at the Estimates, I find that advances have been given to men getting over £400 a year. As a case in point, I see that the Chief Clerk of the Department of External Affairs has had his salary increased from £560 to £580. 
Then I give it up. What are we voting in connexion with this Supply Bill ? I say that the public servants will be paid out of the money we are voting now. 
The increase given is for the year 1915-16. 
Are we to understand that it has not been paid ? 
I am glad to hear that. If we agree to the increment when the Estimates are going through it will be paid? 
I shall give the Senate an opportunity to deal with these increases when the Estimates are being considered. 
.  - The Leader of the Senate has informed us that anything we may have to say by way of criticism of administration or expenditure may be reserved for a future occasion, but bearing in mind the urgency of a subject of great importance at the present time, I feel that mention of it should not be delayed. I refer to the action taken by the Government in connexion with the wheat scheme. I am sure that what they have already done in this matter commends itself to the wisdom and common-sense of the people of Australia, notwithstanding all that has been said to the contrary, but although the credit of this country has been pledged to the extent of 3s. per bushel for all wheat delivered on board, the Government might well go a step further by giving a somewhat larger advance than has yet been paid. The 3s. is applicable throughout the whole Commonwealth, but to those in inland and newly-settled districts, 3s. per bushel f.o.b. means a smaller rate than is obtained by those in more settled districts. This consequently handicaps new settlers in remote localities, whose resources and credit are much more slender than those of settlers in older districts, and the extra 6d. should be paid them as soon as possible. The principal reason why I urge that is because when the war ends, and our men return, there will Be a serious dislocation of trade and industry. It should be our endeavour at this stage to prepare plans to minimize the effect of the serious jolt which the industrial world will experience when that time comes, and we must remember that any further withholding of the extra 6d. per bushel will seriously prejudice the resources of those engaged in wheat production. If they have to wait much longer fortheir money they will put a very much reduced area under crop during the coming year. Numbers of them are looking forward most anxiously to the payment, which, on a delivery of 160,000,000 bushels, means £4,000,000 distributed amongst the wheatproducers. That large sum will enable them to put under cultivation a much larger area, thus employing more labour now, and afterwards to employ a much larger number of men to harvest the crop. The goods in the shape of the wheat have already been delivered; some is in transport and some has arrived, but the great bulk is on the railway sidings or on the farms. 
It is delivered so far as the growers are concerned, but they have received up to date only from 2s. 6d. to 2s. 8d. per bushel. 
The buyer has the goods, and on the London parity is advancing only about 50 per cent. of the value. 
In spite of what has been said outside, I fully realize that it is due to the action of the Federal and State Governments that the advance already made was received by the growers, but I would urge the Government to take the one step further. I am glad to learn that the Commonwealth Bank has taken a very large share of the responsibility of this financial transaction. It is well that the Commonwealth should have such a bank ready and able to come to the rescue of the primary producers, in spite of the fact that the bank and those who created it were seriously criticised by the very party who are now enjoying the benefits and advantages of its action. I am pleased that the bank has done what I believe other financial institutions are unwilling to do, but it would be good public policy on the part of the Government to advance the further 6d. per bushel for the reasons I have stated. This is the time for growers to plan future operations and to decide on the area to be seeded. The £4,000,000 is available, and should be paid to them. The banks are in possession of the goods, whose value is unquestionably more than 2s. 6d. per bushel, for it is nonsense to say that, even though all the shipping required is not available, they are not worth more than half their value. I would urge the Minister to bring under the notice of the Government this opportunity to take a leading part in bringing about a condition of things which will help to overcome the labour troubles that must crowd upon us when the war is over. If the time is allowed to pass, the opportunity to put a larger area under crop will be lost. May and June are the last mouths for seeding our wheat areas, and if the money is not soon received by the growers they must put a reduced area under crop. This applies particularly to new settlers. The £4,000,000 will not make a great deal of difference to those who hold the goods, but will make an immense difference to the productive power of the country. 
I have not consulted any member of the party on the matter about which I am about to speak. I refer to the invitation of the British Parliamentary Association, through the Acting Prime Minister, to myself to visit England. On the night of 4th April I received from the honorable gentleman the following telegram: - 
Empire Parliamentary Association, with approval British Government, invites ten members Federal Parliament, England, for July, and probably inspect battle fronts. Hotel accommodation and travelling facilities in England arranged by association. Understand association has arranged that certain shipping companies will provide free passage to and from England. Please reply whether you are favorable to acceptancethis invitation, and whether you are candidate for selection by the respective parties. Reply before Wednesday, 5th instant. 
The first thing next morning I sent the following reply: - 
Cannot favour acceptance of invitation Federal members visit England at present. Believe there is work for Parliament to do; am not a candidate for selection. 
My first knowledge of this invitation was gleaned from a paragraph which appeared in a Brisbane newspaper, and which had reference to a telegram that had been received by another member of this Parliament. Later, in the Brisbane  Standard  of 7th April, I read the following: 
Melbourne, Friday. 
A majority of the members of both Houses have informed the Acting Prime Minister  (Senator Pearce)  they are favorable to the acceptance of the invitation of the British Parliamentary Association extended to a delegation of ten members to visit England in July next. 
In making the announcement concerning the replies received,  Senator Pearce  said he had consulted members of Parliament, and a large majority was in favour of accepting the invitation. The respective parties will proceed to select their representatives. Six members from the Ministerial party are to be chosen, and four from the Opposition. It will be for the parties to make their own selections, members of both Houses being eligible for selection. 
I am not sure that it was a concession to anybody. I merely desire to place these observations upon record, because I have publicly stated that personally I am opposed to the acceptance of the invitation by the British Parliamentary Association, inasmuch as I do not think the present time is an opportune one for members of this Parliament to leave Australia on a tour abroad. On 12th April I received the following wire from  Senator Pearce  : - 
Please advise me urgently which two of the following members of the Labour party in the Senate you wish to vote for in connexion with the visit to England at invitation of British Empire Parliamentary Association, namely, Senators Barker, Buzacott, de Largie, Grunt, Guy, Lynch, Maughan, Needham, Newland, O'Keefe, Ready, Senior, and Watson. Also which four of the following members of the House of Representatives, namely, Messrs. Burchell, Chanter, Hampson, Mahony, McDonald, Poynton, Riley, Sharpe, Thomas, Watkins, and West. Your reply could be sent to me by letter, but matter urgent. 
I received that wire late on the evening of the 12th April, and transmitted the following reply to  Senator Pearce  the next morning: - 
In my wire 5th instant I did not favour acceptance of invitation, and declined to be candidate. Must now decline to take part in selection. 
This matter we all recognise had nothing whatever to do with any political party. The invitation emanated from the British Parliamentary Association, and every member of this Parliament was at liberty to please himself in regard to the action he took in respect of it. When I received the first telegram from  Senator Pearce  I had been in Brisbane for some time. Indeed, I had not been very much outside of that city. On receipt of that communication I was naturally impelled to wonder whether the present was a time when I, as a parliamentary representative, should forsake the work which I had been elected to perform in order to undertake a trip abroad which might or might not be of a very pleasant character. I had been coming into contact with a considerable number of persons who were out of employment. I knew that deputations had been waiting on the Government of Queensland requesting that work should be put in hand in order to relieve the distress caused by unemployment. As a matter of fact, many men had approached me asking if I could do any thing to secure work for them. Many young men who had volunteered for service at the front, and who had been rejected, were unable to secure employment. Whenever they made application for work the first question put to them was, " Are you married or single?" And as soon as they replied that they were single, work was refused them. The result was that the appeal to the Government on behalf of the unemployed was of an urgent character. The Treasurer of Queensland, to whom that appeal was addressed, stated that the Government were very short of money. He affirmed that they scarcely knew how to keep things going, but that they had sufficient money in hand to afford employment to those who were applying for relief upon the construction of railway earthworks. Upon visiting the secretaries of the various industrial organizations, I ascertained that numerous members of those organizations were unemployed, and were demanding to know what steps Parliament intended to take to relieve their necessities. I also came into contact with numbers of young men and young women, who, after completing their day's work, were devoting their evenings to voluntary labour connected with various committees that have been called into existence owing to the war. I met others who were members of local bodies, including many business men who, out of pure patriotism, were sacrificing a large amount of their leisure to work of a kindred character. Simultaneously, I have heard nothing but appeal's on the part of the Commonwealth for the observance of rigid economy by the people. The ex-Prime Minister, the Right Honorable Andrew Fisher, issued one of these appeals, and the present Treasurer had no sooner assumed office than he, too, stressed the fact that the present was a time, if ever there was one, when the strictest economy should be practised. The PostmasterGeneral also sent out a circular to various municipal bodies who had been demanding better postal facilities, requesting them to cease making such applications because their claims could not be considered owing to lack of funds. The very first paragraph in the latest document submitted to this Chamber is one in which the Treasurer makes an urgent appeal to the whole of the people of Australia to exercise the most rigid economy in their public and private expenditure. 
I have already stated that I am speaking for myself only, and I have given reasons why I declined to take any part in the selection of that delegation. 
I have pointed out what I saw around me in Brisbane, and I have stated that the conditions which prevailed there led me to conclude that the present was not a time for me - if the opportunity presented itself - to undertake a trip to England. 
I do not say that it will. I have read the wire which I received from the Acting Prime Minister, in which it is stated that the expenditure of the tour is to be borne by the British Parliamentary Association. Every honorable member of this Parliament was appealed to, and was at perfect liberty to take whatever action he chose in respect of that invitation. I did not run to the newspapers in order to say so-and-so. 
The honorable senator can look up all the newspapers that he chooses. I simply said that I had returned a negative reply to the invitation that I had received. I stated that the present was not the time for me to go to the other end of the world and to forsake the work which I had been selected1 to perform by the people of Queensland. I believe that there is work for this Parliament to do. We have had a Tariff Bill awaiting our consideration for some months. It is still hanging between earth and' heaven. If anything were to happen which necessitated the sudden closing of this Parliament, we should have to revert to the old Tariff. That is one reason why I, at any rate, would not countenance the invitation forwarded by the British 'Parliamentary Association. I am not saying whether the action of other honorable senators is right or wrong. I am confining my remarks strictly to an explanation of my own action. I repeat that the 
Tariff awaits our consideration, and throughout every part of Australia there is a cry that we should deal with it. Today the manufacturers and many other persons do not know exactly wherethey stand. Seeing that there is plenty of work for Parliament to perform, I declined to have anything to do with the invitation forwarded by the British Parliamentary Association, and refused to become a candidate for membership of the Australian delegation. I conceive it to be my duty to remain here for the purpose of discharging the duties for which I was elected. 
During the course of his remarks,  Senator Lynch  had a good deal to say in connexion with the wheat scheme, and we all sympathize with the desire which he expressed that an extra advance should be made to the farmers who have placed their wheat in the pool. It is rather a difficult matter to discuss, because the Commonwealth Government have become part and parcel of this commercial concern, and we have to bear in mind that we are not likely to get the best deal in commercial transactions if we tell the other side all we know about the situation, and are not informed as to what is being done by it. That is largely our position in connexion with the wheat scheme. It would not be in the best interests of all concerned if we entered too fully into details at present. As honorable senators are aware, this scheme is controlled by a body known as the Australian Wheat Board, constituted by representatives of the four States in which wheat is largely grown in Australia (those States being represented by their Ministers of Agriculture), and by a representative of the Commonwealth Government. At the outset each State endeavoured to raise money from the private and Commonwealth banks to finance the scheme; but later on the Commonwealth came behind the States by guaranteeing payment by a certain date of the money advanced to the farmers, who were required to bring in their wheat to the railway sidings. The Commonwealth is, therefore, practically liable for all advances; and I would point out that in the early days of the scheme no one anticipated that the Australian wheat season would be so phenomenally successful. The arrangements for handling the harvest were not so com plete  as they might have been had we known what the production would really amount to. As an illustration, I may remark that when asking the cooperation of the banks to bring the scheme to a successful issue, we underestimated the amount of money that would be required from those institutions; and honorable senators will realize that, at a time like this, it is neither fair nor reasonable to expect banks or any other institutions to produce millions of money at short notice. That, however, had to be done, and I am glad' to say that while the original net overdraft was estimated at about £7,000,000 or £8,000,000, we have been successful in obtaining from the banks, or with their cooperation, about £15,000,000 for the purpose of handling the scheme successfully. I want it to be understood distinctly that the Board is not in any way lacking in sympathy with the farmers, but that, on the other hand, it is endeavouring to advance to them as much as possible. At the same time, we must remember that the States and the Commonwealth are responsible for money advanced. Anybody acquainted with the nature of the wheat crop will realize that if the Governments had not stepped in and handled this immense harvest on behalf of the producers, chaos and disaster would have befallen them. Right through the negotiations by the Wheat Board, a splendid spirit of co-operation has been shown by all concerned. It will be of interest to honorable senators to know that the wheat harvest amounted, roughly speaking, to 161,000,000 bushels. Of that total we have shipped about 6,588,000 bags, and we have sold to millers and on other local accounts 3,576,000 bags; while the stocks held by shipping agents, who are responsible for the wheat, total 34,797,000 bags, and stocks held by millers on storage represent 8,190,000' bushels. 
Yes. If this arrangement had not been made, no miller would have been likely to buy very far ahead, and in sufficiently large quantities to make use of all the storage available in Australia. On the financial side we have had a little trouble; but, as I have already said we were asking for a good deal from the banks when we re presented to them that we would require a net overdraft of £15,000,000, but through a splendid spirit of co-operation all round we were enabled to overcome our difficulties. Up to 3rd May the amount advanced on account of millers and other local sales was £2,682,000, and for overseas sales, £5,322,000, making a total to date of £8,004,000. Certificates issued at 3s. for wheat at sidings represent £23,890,000, and certificates paid at 3s. represent £21,681,000, the difference between the amounts being accounted for by the fact that in some of the States, in order to keep .the overdraft down, an allowance of 5 per cent, was made to any farmer holding his certificates. The amount of overdraft due to-day to the banks on all accounts is £12,259,000. In. this connexion, I think  Senator Lynch  paid a well-deserved compliment to the Commonwealth Bank, which holds 30 per cent, of the total involved in the wheat outlay. This is a very creditable record. Now, in connexion with a further advance against the wheat certificates, honorable senators will remember that a conference met recently in Sydney. All I can say is that we may be able to make an advance much earlier than anybody to-day anticipates. 
I am not prepared to discuss any of the details just now. I know a rumor of that kind did get about. We have to remember, however, that we have a net overdraft today of £12,000,000, and although the security is, I think, gilt-edged, there is some difficulty in raising money for that purpose, but I am hopeful that further negotiations now going on will enable us to relieve the situation so that we may be able to. assist the farmer further at the earliest possible moment. I wish it were possible to give all other producers the same assistance. Although we are all anxious to help the farmers in every possible way, we must remember that there are other producers who are not so fortunately placed, and I believe an extension of the principle that has been applied to the Australian wheat crop would be in the very best interests of Australia as a whole. I refuse to believe that the attitude of the Wheat Board will deter wheat farmers from extending their operations in the future. The Commonwealth and the States are behind the farmers in this matter, and surely we can expect the farmers to take an ordinary sporting risk in a time of Avar like the present. I feel sure that we can appeal to them, just as we have appealed to recruits to go to the front, to take some share of responsibility and gamble a little on what the future may .bring. 
No, because the Government are behind the farmers; but we do not begrudge them this assistance, and I feel sure that in the future the farmers of Australia will take some of the necessary risks to help this country on during the period of war. The production of foodstuffs is essential, and whether the risks fall on the British Government, the Commonwealth Government, the Governments of the States, or on the farmers, it is our duty to produce all the foodstuffs we can during the currency of the war. The Board and the Governments have considered all the aspects of the problem, and I can give honorable senators an assurance that a further advance will be paid at the earliest possible moment. At present we are unable to determine when that advance will be paid, but the farmers can rest assured that members of the Board will do their best to make a further advance of, if not 6d., then 3d., or even 2d., because it will all be helpful. An announcement on this matter will be made at the earliest possible moment. Consideration of the figures will show that members of the Board have done very well in this matter, and that the farmers have some reason to be proud of what has been accomplished. 
I am sorry that the Government have not been able to do all that one would like them to do for the wheat growers of Australia, but, as  Senator Russell  has aptly remarked, there are other sections of producers in this country - men for whom the Government has not been able to do anything up to the present. There are the orchardists, for instance. They are not nearly as large a body of producers as the wheat-growers, but still they represent a large section of the producing community and deserve consideration. Probably it will be remembered that last year, when this question of financing the Wheat-growers and pooling the whole production of wheat was being considered by Parliament, I asked whether the Government would endeavour to do something in the same way for the fruitgrowers of Australia. The representatives of the Government then said that they would take the matter into consideration, but, I suppose, they have found that they are unable to do anything to relieve the fruit-growers. 
The honorable senator has only anticipated what I was going to say. A great deal of credit is due to the Minister for the Navy for what he has done in the matter; but the Government has not been able to do anything in the way of financing a  relief  scheme for the tens of thousands of orchardists in Australia. I am not blaming the Government on that account, and mention the matter only to show that the wheat-growers have not, in the circumstances, very much to complain about. It is well known that there are many producers on the verge of ruin because there i3 a glut in the particular commodity they produce in every State in Australia with one exception. We do not hear of these producers refusing to go in for cropping in the coming season. I think that  Senator Lynch  rather exaggerated the case when he said that, because they were not going to get the extra 6d. per bushel, the wheat-growers will not in the coming year cultivate the area which they would otherwise put under that crop.  Senator Lynch  must admit that the wheat-growers have had a great deal done for them by the Government. I wish only to remind him that there are other sections of the producers of Australia who find themselves in a very bad way, but who are not crying out because the Government have been unable to do what they would like to have done for them. I do not think that  Senator Turley,  in his references to the rather personal matter of the acceptance of the invitation of the British Parliamentary Association, has done justice to those members of the Federal Parliament who have signified their acceptance of the invitation. The honorable senator, perhaps unwittingly, would lead the public to understand that the acceptance of the invitation by a certain number of members of this Parliament would involve expense to the Commonwealth. 
It was only by way of reply to an interjection that I made that the honorable senator admitted that it did not mean any expense to Australia. The honorable senator is well aware that when the matter was first mooted in the press the newspapers, perhaps because a Labour Government happens to be in power, immediately seized upon it, referred to the jaunt, trip, or picnic, and made it appear that if the invitation was accepted it would mean expense to the taxpayer. It is only within the last few days, when it has appeared that members of both political parties' in the Federal Parliament are prepared to go to the Old Country, that a somewhat altered tone has been adopted in such notes as have been devoted to the matter in the newspapers. 
In the first instance, I replied " Yes " to both the questions asked, indicating that I was in favour of the delegation, and was prepared to accept the invitation. It was purely for private reasons that I subsequently withdrew my name as a candidate for the delegation. I said " Yes " in the first instance, because, for many reasons which I need not go into now, I am of opinion that it would be a good thing in the interests of Australia that a delegation should go from this country ; and I rather resent the imputation contained in  Senator Turley's  first remarks that the matter had anything to do with either economy or extravagance. It was only after I interjected that he said it would not mean expense to Australia. 
I think it is. It was because I thought they would be in a position to do some business for the Commonwealth that I considered a delegation composed of honorable members of both political parties would be in the best interests of Australia, and so replied favouring the delegation, though I was unable to be a can'didate myself . 
In connexion with the parlia mentary delegation referred to, I have been reminded of a particular phase of the matter by an interjection made by  Senator Lynch.  Although -I could not be a candidate myself, I am one of those who supported the delegation. A&amp;  Senator Turley  has said, every man is entitled to view that or any other project according to his own judgment. In my reply to the Acting Prime Minister I supported the delegation upon instructional grounds, and because of the benefit which might follow from the interchange of opinions between the representatives of the different Parliaments. But I added a suggestion for the consideration of the Acting Prime Minister that valuable as the. opportunity might be to those selected and able to go, it would be a good thing if it were impressed upon them, or were understood between them and the Acting Prime Minister, that, while away from Australia, they should not be regarded as representing public opinion in the Commonwealth in connexion with any matter having reference to such subjects as the future relations between Great Britain and the Dominions, especially after the war. I did not regard it as desirable in the interests of Australia that we should have half-a-dozen bands of members of the Federal Parliament going in different directions and expressing opinions on Imperial relations after the war. I think that the good sense of the members of the delegation should indicate that, in justice to Australia and its National Parliament, it would be just as well that they should not say very much on those matters. 
Yes; but I am not prepared to leave it to their judgment. 
I desire that they should not be regarded as representing Australia when discussing such matters as Imperial relations after the termination of the war. 
My object in referring to the matter now is to  give  the Acting Prime Minister an opportunity to say whether he has considered the suggestion or thinks it worthy of consideration. If a member of the Federal Parliament expresses opinions on the other side of the world in regard, we will say, to the employment of black labour in the Northern Territory, which I understand is in a quiet way a burning question throughout Australia at the present time, his views may be taken as representing public opinion in Australia, although he may have no warrant from the people of Australia for giving expression to them. I trust that something will come of my suggestion. It would be very inadvisable for individual members of the delegation to give expression to their personal opinions on Imperial relations after the war as from the Australian stand-point. 
In connexion with  Senator Millen's  complaint regarding the form of the Supply Bills, I direct attention to the fact that the votes in the schedule are really an epitome of the whole of the matters contained in the annual Estimates. They are submitted in this condensed form for the reason that honorable senators are already in possession of the Estimates on which the monthly Supply Bills are based. If they wish to ascertain how any of the votes are split up they can obtain the information from the Estimates. I take, for instance, the Department over which I have the honour to preside, and honorable senators will find that in this Supply Bill the Centra] Administration is dealt with in the space of a few inches. If  Senator Millen's  suggestion were to be adopted, it would involve the printing in connexion with that vote of the matter contained in six pages of the Estimates, giving the whole of the details. These Estimates for last year have already been printed. Honorable senators have received copies of them, and they have only to turn to them for the information to which  Senator Millen  refers. 
Nothing is obscured. The whole of the contingency votes are set out in detail in the Estimates. If  Senator Millen's  proposal were adopted, it would involve the printing of the whole of the Estimates with each monthly Supply Bill. There is no neces sity for that, and it would be a mere waste of printing and paper. 
I agree with  Senator Stewart  that that would be desirable. The Treasurer also agrees with him, and will endeavour to do what he proposes in the coming financial year. I wish to say a word on the question raised by  Senator O'Keefe  about the shipping of products other than wheat. I agree with him that producers other than wheat producers have suffered. 
The shipping is the main thing. Other industries have really had to suffer because of the assistance afforded to wheat producers. But it is a fact not generally known that, although there is a great quantity of apples in Australia that cannot be sent away, and apple-growers are suffering on that account, more apples have been sent away this year than in any other season in the history of Australia.  Senator O'Keefe  was not quite correct in saying that the Government have not done anything in this matter. 
We tried to help the apple-growers by making space available, and more apples have been sent away than in any other year, although there are more left here, because they have had such a superabundant season. One orchardist last year obtained 600 cases, and sent them all away. This year he had over 2,000 cases, and has been able to send only 600 away. No member of the delegation from this Parliament referred to by  Senator Turley  goes to England with the idea that he officially represents Australia. He has no right to speak as its mouthpiece, but each has a perfect right to give his individual views on Australian or Imperial politics, and I am sure nobody would wish to send them to England tongue-tied. They will no doubt give diversified views, and the people of Great Britain will be under no misapprehension. 
In the first place, they are not being sent by the Government, and they are therefore not the mouthpiece of the Government, which is the only official mouthpiece of the people as a whole. These members will represent their own individual views, which will be listened to and given the weight they deserve. The delegation will cause absolutely no cost to the Treasury.  Senator Turley  has not done himself justice in the matter. On reflection I am sure he will see that he has been unfair to those who took a different view of the question. It was quite proper for him to inform the Senate, as he had already informed me, that he did not believe that he ought to be a candidate, but he has done far more. He has given for his attitude some reasons which are in themselves a reflection on the attitude of others. He spoke of the necessity for economy, and for the need for people to help Australia by carrying on their legislative duties here. The only inference is that those who were candidates and those who are going are in some way wasting the resources of Australia and neglecting their duty. Otherwise his references to economy cannot be understood. Those who are going are in no way wasting the resources of the country, because they are not being helped out of those resources for the tour. He gave the names of a number of senators who were candidates, but he did not give the full list, as he did not mention the names of the members of the Liberal side. 
The result of what he did will be to enable those who take a hostile view of the tour to pillory the members of his own party, but not the members of the opposite party who were willing to go. We are part of the British Empire, and will remain part of it, and this war will mean a big alteration in the viewpoint from which we shall have to approach world politics. Whether we wish it or not, the war will put us in a position which we did not occupy previously. We are one of the nations of the world, and are being dragged willy-nilly into the maelstrom of world politics. The politician who comes into the Australian Parliament will have to take an intelligent view of our relationship to other nations, and the man who can find time to travel and see other nations, particularly the man who can go to the United Kingdom and meet there men from other Dominions and discuss with them and members of the British Parliament questions of mutual interest, must come back here better equipped to carry out his duties as a legislator of theCommonwealth. I have never thought it a waste of time - and, even if it was a question of public money, I should not think it a waste of money - that members of the Commonwealth Parliament should be given frequent opportunities to visit, not only the United Kingdom, but other portions of the Empire, so that they might be able to bring a personal knowledge of Empire questions to bear on their duties here. Questions of the kind have already arisen. In our navigation legislation, for instance, we dealt with the question as it affects, not only Australia, but the rest of the world ; yet there are honorable senators here who have never had the opportunity of going beyond our shores. 
I think they can. We can learn something of every subject we have to deal with from every country in the world. After my 1911 tour, I came back better equipped to deal with Australian questions, although I came back no less a good Australian, and with a stronger belief in my own country, and a stronger attachment to it than when I left. 
And they will be normal again. The men composing this delegation will, in normal times, have to deal with these questions once more. I regret  Senator Turley's  attitude, because there is a miserable section in the press of Australia endeavouring all the time to depreciate members of Parliament in the eyes of the people. Thereis a very good reason for this, from their point of view, because the press generally recognise that Parliament is ceasing to be under their influence as it was in the " good " old days. The press see in this independent Parliament that is growing up a loss of the power that at one time was theirs. Therefore, there is, on their part, what I believe to be a deliberate attempt, which is not confined to any particular section of the press - for both parties of the press are tainted with it - to belittle politicians, and to decrease in every way their influence with the people. 
I believe the Labour press is open to the same charge as the Liberal press. They recognise that Parliament is, as it were, a rival to them in the control of public opinion. I put that matter to the test in this way: If the British Parliamentary Association had suggested that, instead of sending ten members of Parliament to Great Britain we should send ten representatives ofthe Australian press, every newspaper in Australia would have hailed it as the proposal of a statesman. There is a good deal to be said even for that proposition. It would be well if pressmen could visit other countries and broaden their view-point and intelligence. When we find the press deprecating the visit, we can only assume that the cause arises from the feeling of jealousy I have indicated.  Senator Turley's  action is not in accordance with his usual broadmindedness, and savours of an attempt to play to that section of the press which is inclined to depreciate and attack members of Parliament at every opportunity. 
That is why I am surprised at the honorable senator's action. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first and second time. 

 In Committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 postponed. 
Clauses 3 and 4 agreed to. 
Schedule. 
Land Tax and Large Estates - State Aviation School - Clothing Factory - Uniform Federal and State Electoral Rolls - Federal Capital : Railway Construction : Progress of Works - Telephone Directory - Regulation of Food Prices. 
Under the Department of the Treasury, there is an item of £8,600 for the Land Tax Branch. It has been stated here that the Federal land tax had reduced the number of large estates, but the figures supplied to me do not bear out the contention. Those well qualified to speak as to the facts are of the opinion that, while the number of large estates appears to have been reduecd, the transfers are really nominal, and have been deliberately made to avoid taxation. I have no doubt that that is the case. While the Labour party is pledged to an exemption of £5,000, and to a progressive system of land values taxation, it cannot be too frequently urged that that system has not had the effect which many of its advocates foretold. . I am one of those who never expected that a progressive land tax would burst up estates in the way that some persons imagined. I am not quite satisfied that the diminishing amount received from this tax is due to the fact that some estates have passed out of the realm of taxation by being reduced in value. I think it could be shown that in a very large number of cases the value of land for taxation purposes is something entirely different from its valuation for sale purposes. I hope that the Minister in charge of this Department will issue instructions to the Commissioner that in future he must see that these lands are correctly valued in order that they may pay to the Commonwealth the amount which they ought to pay. 
There is an item in the vote for the Defence Department connected with the Aviation School, and I wish to ask the Minister if he has any objection to statingthe nature of the arrangement, if any, which exists between the Defence Department and the Aviation School which is being launched by the Government of New South Wales. 
There is no understanding at all between the Defence Department and the Aviation School to which the honorable senator has referred. The Government of New South Wales simply informed us that they proposed to establish a school for the teaching of aviation, and asked if certain of our officers, who are experts in that particular branch of defence, could give them advice in the matter of the preparation of estimates. I agreed to allow them to do so, provided that the work did not interfere with their military duties. We are under no obligation to the New South Wales Government in regard to that school, and they are under no obligation to us. In short, there is no arrangement between the two Governments in respect of it. 
In view of the statement which he has just made, the Minister will be interested to know that in the prospectus issued by the New South Wales Government in connexion with this school, it is set out as one of the conditions upon which entrance can be obtained to it that successful students who obtain certificates during the war will be required to enlist. I invite attention to this fact for the reason that, whilst such an obligation is one which the State Government may impose upon those whom it undertakes to teach, it seems almost to imply a counter obligation on the part of the Commonwealth. It suggests that ifaman obtains a certificate in the State Aviation School, the ranks of the Defence Aviation Corps will be open to him. 
Well, many a candidate who enters the school will naturally think that it is so. I suggest that the Minister should obtain a copy of the prospectus so that, if he reads the paragraph in it in the way that I do, he may take steps to draw the attention of the New South Wales Government to the somewhat misleading statement that is made in that connexion. 
.- I should like the Minister to state the exact position which obtains to-day in regard to the trouble which recently occurred at the Clothing Factory in Melbourne. I am aware that everything at the Factory is now working smoothly, but if the Minister has any further information to give to the country in respectto the disturbance which lately occurred there, the present seems an opportune time to give it. Perhaps it would be as well for him to say whether the cause of the recent friction has been removed, whether there is going to be any victimization amongst the employees, and whether he anticipates any trouble at the Factory in the future. 
.- The men employed at the Clothing Factory who recently went out on strike have resumed work on the conditions under which they were employed previously. I have intimated to them that I am prepared to extend to them a benefit which obtains in respect of other Factories, by creating a Board to which disputes as to the interpretation of any award may be referred - a Board upon which they will have representation. I have also notified them that the rule which was in existence when they went on strike will be continued - that is to say, that we accept the award of the Arbitration Court as the basis for the rate of wages paid there, and that merit or industry above the average will be recognised by the granting of higher pay. These are the conditions under which the Factory will be worked. There has been no victimization in that every man who went out on strike has gone back to work. 
Some time ago a statement was made to the effect that a system was being devised by means of which a uniform electoral roll would be adopted by the Commonwealth and the States. I should like to know whether that project has yet reached fruition. Then, there is another item to which I desire to direct attention. It relates to certain proposed railways. I see nothing in this Bill regarding the construction of the connecting lines of railway between Canberra and Yass and between Canberra and Jervis Bay. To my mind, the position at the Federal Capital has for many years been unsatisfactory. Nothing whatever is being done to lay out the streets there. Some hitch appears to exist between the various authorities who are responsible forthat result. I would like to know why the work of laying out the main avenues has not been proceeded with. I understand that  Mr. Griffin,  who, in open competition with architects throughout the world, secured first prize for the design of the Capital, has now been appointed DirectorGeneral of works there. In these circumstances, I am anxious to ascertain why the work of laying out the streets and of tree planting is not being proceeded with. Also, I wish to know why nothing is being done in the way of constructing the railway to which I have referred. The line from Yass to Canberra is only a short one, and I should like to learn whether the New South Wales Government have agreed to carry out their share of that railway, and why the Commonwealth is not proceeding with its portion of thework. It seems to me that the two lines of which I speak should be proceeded with as soon as possible. 
In regard to the adoption of a uniform roll by the Commonwealth and States, we are negotiating daily with the different States, and our negotiations have reached a satisfactory stage except in regard to New South Wales, where the position may be said to be, not bad, but hopeful. Several States have intimated to me, through their Ministers, that it is intended to introduce the necessary legislation to give effect to the scheme at a very early date. I hope that similar action will be taken by our Government in the near future. 
Practically none. It will be necessary, however, to legislate in regard to subdivisions of electorates. We desire to take power under regulations to adjust the boundaries of subdivisions so as to make them coterminous. In regard to works at Yass-Canberra, we are necessarily guided by the advice of our experts, and nobody is more anxious than I am to see the Federal Capital completed. But there appears to exist a difference between  Senator Grant  and our engineers. They use their judgment, and, with the money made available by the Commonwealth Government, they do first those works which they regard as the most essential. A capital city at Yass-Canberra with well-laid out streets and nice gardens would be of no use without an adequate water supply. I have no doubt that  Mr. Griffin  and the other experts would be only too glad to build the Capital within six or seven years if the Commonwealth Government made the money available. With others I am anxious that the work shall be proceeded with as fast as the money can be made available for that purpose. 
I desire to say something concerning telephone administration in connexion with the Postmaster-General's Department, but I do not see any item under the main heading that would enable me to do so. In the absence of an adverse ruling from the Chair, however, I presume I shall be in order at this stage. The matter to which I refer - the publication of the Telephone Directory - concerns me and a great number of people in the various States of the Commonwealth. In former years it was an interesting and informative publication, but now, while it may be interesting, it certainly is not too informative. When the telephone directory was first issued it was quite easy to find out who was who. That is to say, it was a double-barrelled directory, and if, for instance, Brown rang you up and you were not at home, the number of the caller up was stated, and there was a numerical index to enable you to ascertain the name and address of the person who desired to speak to you. Apparently the numerical index made the volume too bulky, and so it has been dispensed with, with the result that to-day if you learn that, say, No. 562 rang you up, it would be like looking for a needle in a hay-stack to try to find out who 562 is. Of course, having had the convenience of the numerical index for a long time, we all felt the inconvenience when it was taken away from us, but that is not my complaint so much as the practice which has been introduced during the last few months of divorcing the country telephone exchanges from the metropolitan exchange in publication of the telephone directory. I am informed that this has been done in the interests of economy, but I fail to see where the economy comes in. 
Yes, I know all about that. When I made inquiries with respect to the reasons for cutting out country subscribers from the metropolitan exchange directory, I was told that it had been done in the interests of economy, and that a large amount of money had been saved. To-day, if we want to speak to a subscriber on a country telephone exchange, we are required to ring up 39 - I am speaking of Melbourne - and, although the ladies and other officials at the exchange are courteous and obliging, and are extremely anxious to reply as quickly as possible, as a rule, by the time one gets an answer from 39, his patience is very nearly exhausted. We ought not to be subjected to this inconvenience for the sake of a few pounds saved in the production of the telephone directory. The directory should be as comprehensive as possible. This is a matter upon which I feel somewhat keenly. A few days ago a friend of mine asked me if I could get him an old telephone exchange book. I asked him his reason, and he informed me that he wanted it because it would enable him to keep in touch with his country clients without all tEe trouble of ringing up " Central " to ascertain if they were on any country exchange. No person in any of the States should be required to ring up the central telephone exchange to ascertain if any other person is on a country exchange or not. 
He is required to do that unless he happens to know the telephone number of the person he wishes to speak to in the country. 
No . The directory supplied to metropolitan subscribers does not contain the list of country subscribers. 
There is no doubt about that; whereas, if every subscriber had a telephone directory giving the number of every other telephone subscriber in town and country, it would increase the volume of business, and be a convenience to everybody who wanted to engage in telephone conversations. 
Yes. It is a penny-wise-and-pound-foolish policy. People are continually ringing up " Central " to get 39 for the purpose of ascertaining the numbers of subscribers to country exchanges. I intend to take the opportunity later on of ascertaining what amount has been saved by cutting out the list of country subscribers from the present telephone directory, and I think it will be found that the amount is infinitesimal compared with the inconvenience to the general body of telephone subscribers and users. We cannot advertise too largely the number of people who are on the city exchanges in the different States of the Commonwealth, for by doing so the volume of business will be enhanced, because the number of subscribers to the various exchanges will have a tendency to increase. 
I have listened to the complaints made by  Senator Findley,  who, I think, has made out a very good case. 
This attempt at economy does not seem to fit in with the public convenience. The matter will be brought under the notice of the Postmaster-General. I think the case made out by  Senator Findley  is a strong one, and that the public inconvenience should be removed. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Postponed clause 2, Abstract, Preamble, and Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without request. 
Motion (by  Senator Pearce)  proposed - 
That the report be adopted. 
On this motion, I wish to bring under the notice of the Minister who has control of the regulation of prices a question or two which I intended to deal with when the Bill was in Committee. I missed my chance then through being absent making inquiries, and I therefore take advantage of this motion, which is the only opportunity left me to deal with the matter. 
Order ! It would be much more appropriate for the honorable senator to say what he proposes to say on the third reading of the Bill. I do not know what particular line of argument he intends to adopt. He will be in order if he can point out any reason why the report from the Committee should not be adopted ; but I do not think he will be in order at this stage in bringing up the matter in any other way. 
It is certainly very unusual to discuss in detail a matter of administration on the motion for the adoption of the report. I cannot rule that the matter to which the honorable senator has referred is irrelevant, because it is a matter of general administration, covered by the subject-matter of the Bill with which we are now dealing. As I do not know whether the honorable senator missed his chance or not, I am reluctant to rule him out of order; but I do say that the course he is taking is quite unusual. If I may offer a suggestion to the honorable senator, he would be in order in moving the recommittal of the Bill to consider the matter to which he desires to refer. It would then lie entirely with the Senate to grant the recommittal and enable him. to. go into the question at length. 
Then it would appear that the honorable senator does not desire the matter to be discussed at all. Apparently, what he now desires is merely to have his own say. He must know that if he has the right to express his opinion on the matter, every member of the Senate must have an equal right. There is no excuse at all for the honorable senator asking for an opportunity at this stage merely to express his- own opinion on this matter. The object of having any matter opened up in the way the honorable senator proposes is to bring it under the purview of the whole Senate, and in order that it may be open to dis cussion by the Senate. I have suggested the proper course to enable the honorable senator to attain his object. 
That the Bill be recommitted. 
I make the motion because a committee recently sat in Brisbane to decide what was to be the price of bread in that city. As a result of its inquiries, a proclamation was issued that, on and from the 27th April, certain prices for bread were to come into operation. When it was purchased at shops or bakehouses, and paid for at the time of purchase, the prices were to be 2d. for a 1-lb. loaf, 3d. for a 2-lb. loaf, and 7d. for a 4-lb. loaf. Although that proclamation was issued, and was to' come into force on the 27th April, the bakers of Brisbane saw fit to defy the law; and to-day the people of that city are paying the same price for bread as they paid prior to the issue of the proclamation. I want to know why the Minister has not enforced the proclamation, and why the bakers of Brisbane are allowed to defy the law. I also wish to know whether, under the proclamation, bread bought at any shop in Brisbane - whether it be a bakehouse or not - is to be understood as bread purchased for cash without delivery. Some bakers hold the view that, unless bread is purchased at a bakehouse, the reduced prices fixed by the proclamation do not apply. My reading of the proclamation is that bread bought for cash, whether at a bakehouse or any other shop, must be sold at the reduced price. My object is to ask why the proclamation is not enforced, and also whether the reduced prices apply to bread purchased at any shop? 
Order ! The honorable senator cannot ask questions at this stage. To permit that would lead to an interminable discussion. He can ask these questions if he succeeds in securing the recommittal of the Bill. 
I desire to oppose the recommittal of tho Bill, because I think the matter the honorable senator wishes to refer to is too trivial to justify the adoption of that course. I think the honorable senator has gone a little too far in asking why the law has not been enforced. He can scarcely expect to have a proclamation brought into operation to-day and to have a man and his bakehouse, and his bread, brought before the Court to-morrow for a violation of that proclamation. I can assure the honorable senator that it is the intention of the Government to see that the law is strictly observed, not only in the State which he represents, but in every part of the Commonwealth. Inquiries are being made, and all necessary action in connexion with the matter will be taken at an early date. On the question of the definition of a shop, I have to say that the legal advisers of the Government inform me that, under the proclamation, a shop is any place where bread is sold and where people have to come to purchase for cash. All necessary action will be taken to see whether our law will stand, and the maximum charges for bread fixed by the proclamation will be enforced to the utmost by the law. 
Motion (That the Bill be recommitted) negatived; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the Bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
This is the ordinary monthly Supply Bill to enable current work to be carried on for the month. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
This is the fifth Supply (Works and Buildings) Bill for the financial year 1915-16. The first four provided £3,629,686. This provides £213,560, or a total to 31st May, 1916, of £3,843,246. The total included in Supply for new works exceeds the total provision in the Estimates. This is accounted for by the earlier Supply Bills containing provision for works included in original draft Estimates, the amounts of which have since been considerably reduced. The Appropriation Bill for new works, with the annual Estimates, will include a section providing that, notwithstanding anything contained in previous Appropriation Acts for new works during 1915-16, the total expenditure shall not exceed the total provided in the Estimates. There is nothing striking in the Bill, and most of the money is for ordinary works now in course of construction. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee: 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Schedule. 
The road leading from the Port Adelaide railway station to the rifle range, a distance of nearly 2 miles, is in a very bad condition. Large numbers of citizens have recently joined rifle clubs, and some of them are at the range every day in the week. During the summer months the road is fairly dry and passable, but in the winter it is a perfect quagmire and utterly unfit for driving. Will the Minister representing the Minister of Home Affairs see that steps are taken to put the road into such state of repair that people may be able to drive or walk over it in some degree of comfort ? 
When I drove over the road in a motor car a few years ago it was all that  Senator Newland  described, but a large portion is in the boundary of the Port Adelaide corporation, and many of those who use it are ratepayers of that corporation. Why do they not bring pressure to bear on the council to have the road made properly ? It was suggested to me when I was there that because some riflemen walked over the road once or twice a week the Commonwealth should shoulder the responsibility of putting and keeping it in order. That would be an impossible proposition. If we did it at Port Adelaide we should have to do it at all the other rifle ranges in the Commonwealth'. The portion that I went over in the corporation boundary was unsafe to life and limb, but inside the gate the road the Commonwealth constructed and maintains was good. Those who have represented the matter to the honorable senator might well turn their attention to the Port Adelaide corporation. In the meantime I shall ascertain if any portion of the road in our boundary is in a bad state. 
If it is I shall be prepared to see that the portion inside the gate is put into a proper condition. 
Will the Minister representing the Postmaster-General take steps to expedite the erection of the new post-office at Port Adelaide? The question of the site has been settled for at least six months, and I hope the erection of the buildingwill be expedited, because the present post-office is very out of the way and unsuited for the requirements of a growing town. It is under three or four different roofs, and is most inconvenient and costly to work. The erection of the new building will give employment where it is much needed, and possibly representations to the Home Affairs Department may result in the work being pushed ahead. I trust also that the additions and alterations to the General Post Office, Adelaide, will be pushed on with. Plans have been prepared and settled for a considerable extension of the building to meet the growing needs of the Department in South Australia, and it is desirable that the work should be put in hand as soon as possible. 
I shall have the matter of expediting the construction of thenew post-office at Port Adelaide brought under the notice of the PostmasterGeneral. Knowing the views of that Minister on the question of providing proper postal accommodation, I am sure there will be no unnecessary delay. 
Why are the alterations to the Sydney Customs House hung up ? Some time ago all the officers in the building were removed to other buildings in Sydney, and the work of dismantling was begun. What is wrong, and when will the work be proceeded with ? 
I understand that owing to an alteration in the plans the matter has to be again referred to the Public Works Committee. This, I believe, was to be done either to-day or tomorrow. 
What is the object of the expenditure under the Defence Department of £65,000 for naval works, and of £25,000 for the " construction of vessels for other Departments " ? 
Presumably this £65,000 is intended to represent a sum proportionate to the period covered by the Bill. But for the year 1915-16 an amount of £672,000will have been expended without reference - save in a few instances - to the Public Works Committee. It is quite true that Parliament empowered the Government to undertake Defence works in excess of £25,000 without reference to that body, so long as they secured an Order in Council authorizing them to do so. At the same time, I do not know that the intention of Parliament was that this procedure should be availed of by the Ministry to the extent that it has been. It is true that a few works have been carried out at the Naval Base after reference to the Public Works Committee. But apart from these, almost every undertaking covered by the £672,000 to which I have already referred, has been sanctioned without reference to that body. Then, again, the selection of a site for an arsenal at Canberra was referred to the Public Works Committee, but the proposal to construct the arsenal itself was not. I do not know why this differentiation was made by the Government. Broadly speaking, I think it is due to Parliament and to the Public Works Committee that an explanation should be given as to where the line is to be drawn between works which should he referred to that body for investigation and works which should not. I cannot say what principles influence the Government in their determination of the procedure which they adopt. But the fact remains that to-day a number of works are being carried out by the Naval Department, apparently to the satisfaction of the Minister, without reference to the Public Works Committee, which has been rightly described as the " eyes and ears of the Parliament." 
It may, or it may not. The War Precautions Act is such a drag-net that we really do not know where we stand. When the Public Works Committee were inquiring into the relative merits of the sites proposed for the arsenal, the evidence tendered to it was of such a nature that it was deemed advisable for its members to sit  in camera,  and, consequently, the testimony given by experts on that occasion still remains a secret to the members of that body and to the Minister to whom the Committee submitted its report. I should like to know what position the Public Works Committee is to occupy, and whether the intention of Parliament has been faithfully observed by the Government in carrying out most of the works undertaken by the Naval Department without reference to it. 
I merely wish to say that there is no intention on the part of the Government to overlook the Public Works Committee. In the Act constituting that body Parliament provided that certain works could be exempted from reference to it by an Order in Council.I have the greatest respect and admiration for the members of the Committee, but I do not regard them as either high naval, military, or engineering authorities. The Act was passed for the express purpose of enabling honorable senators to look more closely into Government expenditure. But the works to which  Senator Lynch  has referred are of a technical character, works as to which the Government have the advantage of the services of high technical officers who have recently visited India and seen the arsenals which are established there. If the proposal to erect an arsenal at Canberra had been referred to the Public Works Committee it would merely have involved a repetition of the evidence which these men had already given to the Government. There is no reason why such a duplication should take place. After listening to the remarks of  Senator Lynch,  one would imagine that failure to refer projected works to the Public Works Committee had become the established rule. As a. matter of fact, it has been the exception. Save as to naval works and the proposal to establish an arsenal at Canberra, almost every undertaking has been referred to that body. Apparently its members have been so busy that they have now worked themselves to a stand still. I can assure  Senator Lynch  that there is no intention on the part of the Government to ignore the Committee or to strain the Statute by withholding the reference of projected works from it. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
Before I address myself to the specific motion now before the Senate, I should like to tender my compliments to the Minister of Defence, who has had such a large share of responsibility thrown on him by the absence of the Prime Minister; and it seems to me that that is a matter in which this Chamber, and, indeed, the other House may reasonably join. There is one other matter arising from the statement made yesterday to which I should like to make some reference, and that is the observation that we had met on the anniversary of the first meeting of the Federal Parliament here. I refer to it for this reason: Circumstances which exist to-day, and arise out of the war, justify the action which was taken for the inauguration of the Federation, because it has enabled us to put forward a more united effort in connexion with this war than would have been possible by the various States, had they remained as separate entities. Turning to the statement itself, it directly raises the question as to the extent of the effort which Australia is prepared to make in connexion with the war, and the methods which are to be adopted for its successful prosecution. In approaching this subject, I want to remind honorable senators of two facts. The first  is that this war involves our national existence, and the second is that there is, I believe, a united determination that Australia should do everything possible, everything within its power, to see that the conflict is waged to a successful issue. To me the position is too grave to admit of any difference of opinion on these two points. It is the duty of each one of us, in approaching it, to free ourselves from all views; to shake off the influence of previous traditions; and, above all, to free ourselves- from the ties and limitations which are invariably associated with party sympathies and party aims. In other words, I regard the matter as so absolutely serious, that there is upon us an obligation to approach it with open minds, and with a single determination to try to look into any proposal upon its merits, and to see that the method adopted shall be such as will lead us, in the shortest space of time, to that victory which we all hold to be essential to the continuance of our national existence. In order that there may be no misunderstanding as to how and where I stand in the matter I should like to make it clear that, whatever system is adopted, I shall continue in the future, as I have endeavoured to do in the past, to put forward my best efforts to get the best results out of it. Other honorable senators will, I feel confident, take the same course; and, although they may differ as to the method to be employed, they will render the Government their best service. Having said that, I want now to refer more in detail to the position which confronts us; and, in starting, I desire to say that I arn proud, as every Australian and every Britisher must be proud, of the effort which Australia has put forward up to the present. I venture to assert that if, when this war broke out, it had been predicted that Australia would, under the voluntary system, put something like 250,000 men in the field, after eighteen months of war, no one would have credited the statement. Yet this is an accomplished fact to-day. But, whilst I glory in the effort which has been made, I must deprecate a little the tendency, manifested in certain quarters, to institute comparisons between what Australia has done, and what has been accomplished by other portions of the Empire. Comparisons are alleged to be odious, and I think in this instance they are most misleading. If some other por- tion of the Empire had put forward a feeble effort, it would not have been sound policy to argue that another portion of the Empire should be satisfied if it had put in the field, say, double that number. To my mind, it is not a question whether one portion of the Empire has acted as vigorously or more vigorously than another. The sole test ought to be whether we have done all that we are capable of doing. If other portions of the Empire are not so vigorous, it does not relieve us of the obligation resting upon us, and upon every portion of the Empire. Now, taking that as a startingpoint, I want to ask myself two questions : the first is, Are more men wanted in this conflict or not? and the second is, If they are wanted, is Australia capable of supplying them? It seems to me that the answer to the first question is very simple, .because it is a well-known fact - well known to everybody who reads his newspaper - that action in this direction has recently been taken in Great Britain. We know the traditional attachment of every Britisher to the voluntary system, and we have read of  Mr. Asquith's  statement recently that under that system 5,000,000 men have been obtained. Here, again, I venture to say that if at the outbreak of war it had been predicted that Great Britain would raise 5,000,000 men under the voluntary system, and that she was still under the necessity of obtaining more, the statement would hardly have been credited. When Lord Derby started his recruiting campaign on 23rd October last year, he addressed his appeal to over 5,000,000 of men, and out of that number 2,950,000 replied in the affirmative. A considerable proportion of that number - I refer to those who replied in the affirmative - will undoubtedly be included in  Mr. Asquith's  5,000,000, but there will still remain a considerable number who have not yet been enrolled - those of the later groups. That number will still further have to be cut down by medical rejections, and many will undoubtedly be required in starred occupations - for munition making and other essential purposes. The 5,000,000 referred to by  Mr. Asquith  will have to be added to by others - how many I cannot say - who will be included in groups not yet called up. In spite of the fact that 5,000,000 men have been enrolled, and certainly some other numbers - probably a  few hundred thousand willing to be enroiled - Great Britain has regarded it as necessary to abandon the voluntary system. There is some reason for this alteration of policy, and I ask honorable senators to consider this aspect of the question seriously, because they know, as well as I do, the attachment in the Old Country to the voluntary system. To my mind, the action of the British Government is a clear indication that every portion of the Empire will have to obtain larger numbers of men. This, I think, is a sufficient answer to the first question. Then, if more men are wanted, are they wanted now, or later on? One cannot read the speeches in the. Imperial Parliament without coming to the conclusion that the Imperial authorities are of the opinion that more men are wanted, and that they are wanted now, so that they may be in a position to make provision for several months to come. That being so, we have to ask ourselves whether, as an integral portion of the British Empire, anxious to co-operate to the full extent of our powers, we can do something more to supply the additional numbers of men which the Imperial military authorities now regard as essential. And here I submit two or three facts for consideration. The first is that the Minister of Defence, in a recent statement, referred to the " untapped reservoir " upon which Australia has yet to draw. It was a very happy phrase indeed. He was referring to the 120,000 single men who had written "No" on their census cards: those men who had deliberately stated that they were not prepared to offer their services to their country. It is quite clear that in this untapped reservoir there is a supply from which Australia may supplement the effort she has already put forth. Turning to the minute which the Minister read yesterday, I find there is this statement, " The Government does not take the view that the effort of the Government exhausts the possibilities of Australia so far as the contribution of fighting men is concerned." This appears to be conclusive evidence that in the mind of the Government we have not exhausted our possibilities in that regard. 
I am not dealing with systems just now. Our census cards show, and it is only a paper showing I admit, that there are available men. The Government, having reviewed the census figures, feel justified in telling Parliament and the country that they do not consider that we have exhausted all the possibilities for the contribution of men. More men are wanted, and Australia is in a position to meet some of the want. Here, then, we are brought up against the crux of the whole matter, and that is how we are going to get them. For some months past, in common with other members of Parliament in the Federal and in the State arena, I have been brought very closely into contact with the recruiting agencies in my own State, and I have to admit a very profound disappointment concerning the results of the efforts put forward. It is an incontestable fact, testified to, I believe, by every recruiting committee in New South Wales, that so far as the results of their efforts are concerned they have been distinctly disappointing. In addition to that, there is another factor, unpleasant to contemplate.but which it is necessary to take into account, and that is that a large number of those who wrote "yes" on their census cards are not translating that "yes" into action. I am told by those charged with the duty of carrying out recruiting work in various centres that a very considerable percentage of the men who replied that they were prepared to enlist, when invited by the recruiting committees to come forward and put their promise into action, find many excuses, and some of them not lacking in ingenuity, for not fulfilling their promise, with the result that there is a falling off in the number of those we were led to believe would be available in answer to the Prime Minister's appeal. On that point I do not know that I can do better than quote the evidence of Professor Mclntyre, an active participant in the recruiting movement in New South Wales, a member of the State War Committee, and also, of the confidential committee having the duty of examining the replies to the census cards. In a published address the other day he announced that he had been through 20,000 cards, and that, having perused and examined them, he had become familiar with every possible form of excuse which the human mind can devise. I have no doubt he was correct. In many of the country towns where I have been, the committees have mentioned their difficulties, and in every centre I have been met with the one statement that a depressing percentage of the' men who promised to enlist, for one reason or another, now say that they are unable to redeem their promise. If more men are wanted, if more men are available than are now coming forward, and if we are determined to stand in with the Empire to the extent of our resources, we have still to face the question, however unpleasant it may be, of how we are going to get them to the colours. The whole position, I think, is summed up very tersely indeed in a sentence used by Lincoln in his address to Congress in sending his message there advocating conscription. He said: " There can be no army without men, and men can be got only voluntarily or involuntarily. We "have ceased to obtain them voluntarily, and to obtain them involuntarily is the draft or conscription." Although the immediate outlook as to numbers may not, perhaps, be serious, in my view the outlook in a few months' time will be. That being so, if our present system is not leading to the result we think necessary to insure that Australia will be properly represented at the front by putting forward its best effort in common with the Mother Country, we have to ask ourselves whether the time has not arrived when we should look to some alternative to the present voluntary system. I should mention that in a statement I saw recently in a Sydney newspaper commenting upon the proposal for conscription, which has been in the air for some time, it was pointed out with justifiable gratification that there has lately been an improvement in the figures returned from some of the centres. We are all glad to hear that, but the explanation of it may be that it represents the result of many weeks of work in connexion with the cards. It took time to sort the cards and to communicate with men who agreed to enlist, and ask them to present themselves; but it is quite clear that if our card system in full operation is yielding to-day its best results we must face the position that will arise when we have exhausted the crop of men which the war census has given us. Looking a few months ahead, I feel justified in saying that, unless some other means than those prevailing to-day are adopted, assuming that the war is not brought to an end within that time - and I see no prospect of it ending in the immediate future - the results from the present system will be negligible, and we shall have to ask ourselves whether we can afford to continue to rely upon a system which will have ceased to yield any numbers worth speaking about, or proceed to devise some other method which will give us the men we want. 
Unquestionably ; and on that account we have to adopt a system which will enable us to command the greatest strength of which we are capable, in order that we may deliver a final and telling blow. It is one of the most tragic facts in connexion with the war that, owing to the extent to which armies are organized to-day, in any victories we may achieve we are bled almost white, and that is the very reason why we should consider what is best to be done to shorten the time when we can claim final victory as ours. I submit four points as constituting the reasons why, in my opinion, we ought to adopt the system - call it by what name we will - which will lay upon our citizens the obligation to perform a duty which hitherto it has been left to them to discharge or neglect as they pleased. I say that the safety of the nation depends upon a larger marshalling of our manhood strength. I say that it is democratically sound to ask that every citizen sharing the privileges of tho country shall share also its responsibilities, and I say further that that is economically the best system, and that it is not only wise, but humane, that we should immediately concentrate our strength, and thus shorten the conflict and reduce the toll claimed by death. First of all, as to the safety of the nation, I have already referred to the action taken by Great Britain. That, in itself, would suffice, but I wish to supplement it by a quotation from a recent speech by  Mr. Lloyd  George. Dealing with the action recently taken in Great Britain, he declared that the military authorities said that it meant all the difference between defeat and victory. He said, further - 
The Government after prolonged examination - 
I think we have to admit that the examination was prolonged - decided that it was absolutely essential to call up every available man and prepare him for the field. 
That statement, in effect, means that the Imperial Government considered that the national salvation depended upon their capacity to bring to the colours every available man. What  Mr. Lloyd  George said was supplemented, I think immediately afterwards, by our own Prime Minister. My honorable friends will recognise that not only did  Mr. Hughes  leave Australia with a knowledge of the conditions in the Commonwealth, but he has since he has been at Home, in confidential  intercourse extended to him by the Imperial authorities,- been placed in possession of information which makes him as well informed on the whole subject as is, perhaps, any single man in the world. I have not lie slightest doubt that ho is fully informed, not only as to the present position, but as to the future anticipations of the 'Imperial authorities. Speaking after  Mr. Lloyd  George, he said - 
Victory is dependent on organization. We must make a final blow, and the greater it is the more quickly the tide will turn. If we fail now to make the maximum effort, then, as  surely  as the Saviour lives, we will go down to hell. 
That, in ordinary circumstances, might be regarded as extraordinary language to use. 
I need not refer the honorable senator to anybody, and I simply say that he should possess himself in patience 
They say that all things come to those who wait. I venture to say that  Mr. Hughes  used those terms not for any mere idle platform effect, but because he was impressed with the fact that a supreme effort is necessary to-day. When we find statesmen from the Old Country and from this on the same platform making these declarations, it clearly points to the fact that, in their judgment, the national safety does depend upon ,our marshalling the man power of the Empire ; and Ave may safely accept that as a proof that danger to the Empire does exist, and that this is one means we have to ward it off. I submit, as a further proof of the recognition, at any rate by those who are in the best position to know, that the national safety does indeed depend upon the step  which has been taken at Home, the altered attitude of many of the industrial organizations of the Old Country. A very few months ago they might be said to be distinctly hostile to any departure from the voluntary system ; but we have lately seen a distinct change in their attitude. I cannot dissociate that change from the happenings on the battlefields of Europe. The impression has been forced upon us that we are a long way from victory yet, and that Ave have to do something more than Ave have done if we wish to make an advance towards victory. We have seen the opposition on the part of organized labour at Home gradually toning down. until nOW, when the matter of conscription has been placed in almost a concrete form, there is practically no opposition to it in Great Britain to-day. That marvellous change of attitude has arisen from a clearer conception of the danger Avith which the Empire is threatened, and a clearer recognition of the only means by which relief can he obtained. This was crystallized in a phrase appearing in a manifesto signed by  Mr. Crooks,  amongst others, issued by a body, the exact political complexion of which I do not know, but which  is called the British Workers' National League. This body issued a manifesto in which this sentence appeared - 
The time was never so critical. The Motherland, in its supreme hour, calls for the ungrudging service of all her children. 
I submit that these considerations furnish ample justification for the conclusion at which I have arrived, that the time is indeed critical. We are bound to face the position presented by these speeches, and by the action of the Imperial authorities. It is a plain and simple declaration that the position is so grave and serious that only by resort to a measure of compulsion oan the authorities at Home confidently face the future. 
I do not know whether  Senator Blakey  was present when I commenced my address, but I repeat now  that I am not disposed to enter into any comparison between  what Ave  are doing and what others are doing. If there is any portion of the Empire that  is not doing its duty, that does not relieve us of the obligation to do ours. 
I have already said that I am as proud as any man can be of the effort this country has made - an effort which would not have been credited if it were predicted twelve months ago. I am not in any way deprecating what we have done. All I say is that, if we are capable of a yet more vigorous effort, the circumstances justify us in putting it forward. 
I have referred to what has been done there, in order to justify the statement that more men are wanted. If this action has been taken at Home because more men are wanted, for what reason are they wanted?  Mr. Lloyd  George tells us that the military authorities advise the Imperial Government that the getting of the extra number of men would make all the difference between defeat and victory. 
I have not the slightest doubt that it had been. We might have guessed it before, but we now have it on the authority of a member of the Imperial Government. I come now to the next point I mentioned. I have asked the question whether the system being adopted at Home, involving a departure from the voluntary system, is democratic. To my mind, that question admits of no argument. I have been surprised at the discussions which have taken place, and the contention that compulsion for military effort, in some way or other, violates the canons of Democracy. To my mind it is a necessary part of Democracy. I regard Democracy as meaning a community in which all "are equal, or where all at least have equal opportunities and equal rights; but surely that carries with it the obligation of equal responsibility. If a citizen of this country has the same rights and privileges as another, surely it is a parody on the meaning of Democracy to say that upon some rests the duty of defending the country while it does not rest upon others. 
I accept the position that every citizen owes to his country the simple duty to take part in its defence. 
I should not ask that the cripple should be sent into the firing line. I merely say that it is the duty of every man to share in the defence of his country, wherever he is placed. 
Undoubtedly . 
What do my honorable friends-mean by the " conscription of wealth " ? It is perfectly legal and constitutional to-day for the Government to take whatever portion of that wealth it wants. That right is there now, unchallengeable. I shall not raise, and have not so far raised, my voice against any action the Government have taken to enforce that conscription of wealth which is necessary to carry on the war. But if my honorable friends mean that because of the war the Government should take all the wealth of the country, whether it is necessary for the conduct of the war or not, it is quite another matter. 
I was referring to the right of the Government to do so. The Government would not take them if they were not wanted, nor should the Government take the wealth unless it is necessary for the purposes of the war, or for the purposes of government. The Government have the right to-day to conscript wealth, and as they see fit, they will, by means of some measure of taxation or other take from the owners of the wealth such proportion as they think they need to carry on the war. We have therefore conscription of wealth. It remains for the Government to say to what extent they will apply it. Similarly with men. If we had conscription, whilst every man would be liable, the Government would not take every man and send him to the front. They would take such numbers as they thought suitable for the purpose, and as could be spared. 
Just as to-day every pound is at the direction of the National Government. If the Government said to-morrow, " The safety of the Empire depends on taking the last pound in this country," they would take it, and the Senate would support them. 
No; because I assume that the Government conclude that, for the purpose of the war, it is not necessary to take every pound of property which exists. I have endeavoured to deal with this matter in rather an academic way, in order that there should be no possibility of anything but the most careful and friendly consideration of a very serious problem. But I ask my honorable friends who are imbued with the idea that what they call  conscription  of wealth ought to precede or accompany the conscription of men, to look very closely into the matter, and ask themselves, Is there anything in the Constitution to prevent the Government conscripting such wealth as it needs? The Government already have the power, and I have no doubt that, as occasion arises, if this or any other Government feel they can advantage the country in the prosecution of the war by doing so, they will  take  whatever part of that wealth they want and when they want it. But if the Government conscripted all the wealth of the country to-morrow, it would not meet the question I am dealing with : More men are wanted; can we supply them? I was dealing with the question of whether the principle of compulsion, as applied to the raising of our Defence "Forces, was or was not democratic. 
While the honorable senator was discussing conscription in the Mother Country as a proof that more men were required, he was perfectly in order; but when he begins to argue that compulsion is the proper course for Australia to pursue, he immediately comes into conflict with standing order 419, which provides - 
No senator  shall  digress from the subjectmatter of any question under discussion; nor anticipate the discussion of any subject which appears on the notice-paper. 
Provided that this standing order shall not prevent discussion on the Address-in-Reply of any matter; and provided further that if a period of four weeks shall have elapsed since any Notice of Motion or Order of the Day was first placed on the notice-paper, and no debate thereon shall have been initiated, the rule as to anticipating discussion shall have no effect in relation to such motion or order. 
There is, on the notice-paper, a motion by  Senator Bakhap,  which has already been debated, and which is now No 2 of the Orders of the Day for Thursday, 18th May, in favour cf compulsory military service. I must, therefore, ask the honorable senator not to argue the question whether conscription should or should not be applied to Australia while that motion remains on the business-paper. 
If the motion remains on the notice-paper longer than four weeks without a debate having been initiated, the standing order will not apply. 
The matter has come up for discussion on several occasions. In fact, I raised it myself on the floor of the Senate more than once. It is undoubtedly a serious one, but it is my duty, in any case, to administer the rules of the Senate as I find them. .Standing order 419 is exceptionally clear, and there is no mistaking its meaning. The Acting Prime Minister's contention that a member could, of malice aforethought, leave a motion continuously on the businesspaper, and so block discussion, cannot hold good, because the Standing Orders provide that directly a motion has been moved, if its further consideration is set down for another day, it is no longer a notice of motion, but becomes an Order of the Day, and an Order of the Day is the property of the Senate, to be discussed at the convenience of the Senate. I have never felt myself bound to regard the rulings of my predecessors, which, after all, are only the interpretations they put on particular Standing Orders. If, in my view, any ruling given by any of my predecessors conflicts with the Standing Orders, while I should be inclined to pay a great deal of respect to their opinion, I shall obey the Standing Orders rather than be guided by their ruling. The only rulings given on this question are as follow :  - 
It is allowable to debate a Bill from the other House for a specific subject, notwithstanding that a notice in general terms referring to the same subject is on the businesspaper. 
On the first reading of a Supply Bill a senator cannot anticipate the discussion on a motion or a committed Bill. 
In regard to the first ruling, it would be intolerable to limit the discussion on a Bill initiated in another place and reaching us in the natural course of events simply because a notice of motion had previously been given. With regard to the second ruling, even though our Standing Orders provide that a senator can refer to almost any subject on the first reading of a Supply Bill, it has been held that standing order 419 still applies, and. that the discussion cannot anticipate a motion already on the business-paper. I must, therefore, rule that the honorable senator will not be in order in discussing conscription as applied to the Military Forces of the Commonwealth, although I have given considerable latitude and did not interfere with him when he was using the matter as an argument to show that our utmost efforts were required, and that we still wanted more men. I cannot allow any further discussion on the point of order, unless it is proposed to move to disagree with my ruling. I would point out, however, that the Senate is still the master of its own business. If it is found at any time that a standing order is irksome or unduly conflicts with the liberty of honorable senators to discuss a question, the simple remedy is for the Senate to suspend it. 
If the honorable senator moves such a motion without notice an absolute majority of the Senate will be required to carry it. 
That standing order 419 be suspended for the purposes of the discussion of the motion " That the paper (Ministerial statement) be printed." 
The bells having been rung - 
Question put. 
There being no " Noes," and more than a majority of the whole Senate voting in the affirmative, I declare the motion carried. 
In a Democracy it is not the duty of any class to defend the country. It is the duty of the nation. Where you have no standing army, and no military class, the responsibility for defence is not thrown upon the shoulders of any one class. Nor should it bc thrown upon the shoulders of those who are willing, imbued by a sense of patriotism, to give their services in the discharge of the duties which are neglected by those whose sense of patriotism is not so active. 
It is quite true that  Senator Pearce  was applying that statement to our home service. But it is generally recognised in this Chamber to-day that the true defence of Australia at the present time is to be found on the battlefields of Europe. The remarks of the Minister appear to me to apply equally well to the obligation which rests upon the citizens of Australia to defend this country wherever that defence may be best asserted. Quite recently, too, we had a statement from the Prime Minister,  Mr. Hughes,  which seems to show that he also stands for the principle that in a Democracy it is everybody's duty to take a hand in the common defence. Speaking, I think, on the occasion when he was presented with the freedom of the city of London, he said - 
Since defence of country was a primary duty it was the primary duty of every free man, and a task which Democracy ought to undertake. 
I welcome these declarations because they indicate that there is a tendency amongst a very large section of a political party, some cf whose members are opposed to compulsion, to affirm that on the score of its democratic or undemocratic character the principle of compulsion cannot be turned down. I pass now to the third point, which, in my judgment, calls upon us to adopt conscription, namely, that economically it is the best system. Here again I find that the Minister himself entertains that belief. In replying to a deputation which recently waited on him from the Australian "Natives Association, or from a body urging the adoption of compulsion, he pointed out that different men possess different values - that some men would be better placed in  the battlefield,  whilst others would be better engaged in home industries. This happy selection of men for the posts in which they can render the most effective national service is absolutely impossible under the voluntary system. When this war started Great Britain, adopting that system, soon found herself in difficulties, 'and had to recall from the trenches thousands of men who ought never to have gone there. It was to their credit that they offered to take their places in the firing line, but experience soon showed that they could do more effective worK by remaining at home. 
Was the war to drag on through lack of resolution to marshal every resource and utilize every legitimate civilized means to bring it to a victorious conclusion? 
That is a question which is clamouring for an answer to-day. Are we going to allow the war to drag on? After consideration of this question in all its aspects, and having in mind the drop in our recruiting returns, as well as the requirements of Australia, I cannot resist the conclusion that at the present rat© of recruiting we shall not be able to maintain our reinforcement requirements. This diminution of recruits is taking place at the very time when all the evidence tends to show that we ought to be making an increased rather than a diminished, effort. For that reason I have been compelled to come to the conclusion that the duty which confronts Australia to-day is to adopt a measure of compulsion. There are in this community men who are not able to see that their duty is to defend it; so we must, seeing their inability to discover their duty for themselves, by legal compulsion oblige them to discharge that duty. 1 realize that there is a difficulty in bringing in compulsion. No man who approaches this subject should for a moment forget that difficulty. In the minds of a considerable number, there exists the fear that if we adopt compulsion we shall be breaking down those industrial privileges which have been secured by organized labour. Personally, I do not think that fear is well grounded, but I know it is sincerely entertained by a large number of people, and, therefore, those who, like myself, advocate conscription, are under an obligation to discover some means by which an assurance can be given that the adoption of conscription shall not jeopardize those privileges which unionism has obtained after many years of effort. So far as I am concerned, in advocating conscription I would insist that accompanying it, there should be a declaration that anything which takes place as the result of the war shall not be allowed to jeopardize the position obtained by those bodies. 
When Parliament adjourned last November, I was one of those who opposed the long adjournment, but I did not then foresee what has since happened. It appears to me that an endeavour has been made by certain persons to carefully organize this advocacy for conscription. They had on their side all the powers for the furtherance of this agitation, while those who hold the opposite views were entirely prohibited from giving expression to them. Those who favoured conscription had the platform, they had the press, and in very many cases they had the pulpit; while those who were opposed to conscription had no press, and no platform, because 'if they expressed their opinion in opposition through the press or from the platform they ran a very great risk of coming under the provisions of the War Precautions Act. Since Parlia ment adjourned, six months ago, we have had very many illustrations of what the power of the War Precautions Act means, and how it has operated against free speech and the free expression of opinion in Australia. I do not say that the Minister personally is at fault. It is the system of which he is the head that has been responsible for the prevention of the free expression of opinion by Australian citizens on this very important question of universal service. We have had instances by the dozen in which the law has been put into operation against those who sought  to  oppose this movement which it was apparent to many of us was existent in an insidious way. Whilst the Minister has been good enough to draw a distinction between anti-conscription and antirecruiting, I leave it to honorable senators to say whether, if one got up to address a meeting against conscription, and there were present various officious individuals, it would not be a very easy matter, as I believe has been the case, for expressions against conscription to be proved in a Court of law as operating against recruiting, when anything might happen up to a fine of £50, or six months' imprisonment, or both ? I listened attentively to  Senator Millen,  who stressed the point that the system which he advocates is essentially democratic. This is claimed by various organizations, and proclaimed loudly at the present time by almost the entire press of Australia. We are invited to believe by those in favour of conscription that the basis of. the movement is Democracy. I never could see, and  Senator Millen  has not proved it to my satisfaction to-night, that this system is democratic. The honorable senator certainly said that it is democratic, but I leave it to other honorable senators to decide whether he proved or endeavoured to prove that it is democratic. I do not wish to accuse the honorable senator of plagiarism, or to suggest that he is responsible for the application of the term " democratic" to conscription. lean assure the honorable senator that' I have been reading the term as applied to conscription in the conservative newspapers of Melbourne for the past six months. They have known better, however, than to attempt  ,t'o prove that conscription is democratic, f hold that nothing in connexion with war can be described as democratic. The whole fabric of war is antidemocratic. The basis of militarism is anti-democratic. Democracy and war are incompatible. In my opinion, the greatest problem that the Empire is up against today is due to the fact that we are endeavouring to carry on a war in the modern style with a Democracy, whilst some of the other nations are carrying on the war under autocracy. That, in my opinion, is accountable for much of the trouble in Great Britain. If we look into the genesis of the war, we may well ask who are responsible for it. Will any one contend for a moment that the people of the British Empire were asked to say "Aye" or " No " as to whether the war should take place ? They were not consulted. The system operating to-day, as we are aware, is that a small and very exclusive coterie of people, officially known as the Foreign Service in Great Britain, has the undue power to tie up Great Britain by treaties and alliances. Very often we do not know with whom we are in alliance, or with whom we have entered into treaties. This very exclusive official body has the power to enter into a treaty on behalf of Great Britain, and, in effect, to drag Great Britain and the Empire into war, because, when the Foreign Service has made an agreement, treaty, or alliance, the Parliament and the people of Great Britain are in honour bound to stand by the agreement made, and to carry on a war if that is involved. Let us examine for a moment the persons who constitute our Foreign Service to-day. This consideration is particularly interesting from a democratic point of view. Before an  individual can obtain a post in the British Foreign Service, he must have a private income of £400 a year. 
Yes; they do not want any ordinary or common garden variety of Democrat there. They want a man who has blue blood in his veins, and he must have a private income of £400 a year before he can obtain a post in the Foreign Service of Great Britain. If they got the  ordinary  class of individual, they might get a little brains with him. If there is one thing in which our weakness has been shown in this war, it has been in connexion with our diplomacy and our diplomatic service. Under such a system, when the people are not consulted as to the right or wrong or wisdom of a war, it is idle to apply the term " democratic " to any phase of its operations. 
For the edification of  Senator Stewart,  I shall present the other side of the picture. Where does Democracy come in when a war is in operation? What about our censor system? What is the origin of that? It is this, "Why tell the people anything? What have they to do with the result of the war ? Whose concern is the success or otherwise of our army ? It belongs to our military caste. We will tell the people just what we like. We will withhold tlie general news, under the pretence that its publication might be useful to the enemy." Is there a sane person listening to me to-night who will contend for a moment that the unadulterated lies and misrepresentation that have been handed to us about the progress of the war, the overwhelming defeat of the Germans by the Russians month after month, the statement made fourteen or fifteen months ago that Germany was in her last straits, and was calling up her old men, youths, and cripples, would have been of any value to the Germans. Such a contention would be ridiculous, because the Germans know more about their own position than we can tell them. They know the weakness of our diplomatic service, and, owing to that, they probably know more about the British position than do many of our own officials. The censor system is continued, and evidently the only concern of the Democracy and the common people in connexion with the war is to go into the trenches and do the fighting. Those in charge say to the Democracy, "We will not give you any voice in the declaration of war, and when war is declared, and is being carried on, we will not tell you the result of it. We will tell you just what we like. But we will take you by the back of the neck, and if you do not willingly go into the trenches, we will throw you there." We can come nearer home in dealing with this aspect of the question. I think that  Senator Millen  made a claim, if not in these words, to this effect, that it is the duty of every person in a community to " do his bit " for the defence of the nation and of his country. This afternoon I asked  Senator Russell,  the Minister representing the Treasurer in the Senate, what amount was paid in brokerage, or commission, to members of the Stock Exchanges in Australia for their work in connexion with the two war loans, totalling £35,000,000.  Senator 
Russell replied that the amount paid them was £34,000. 
As  Senator Guthrie  very aptly interjects, " They got their bit." They were awarded - I will not say they earned - £34,000 for obtaining subscriptions to the war loan. Will any advocate of conscription say that these individuals have done, or are doing, their "bit"? Will any one say that the people who advanced the £35,000,000 of the war loan are " doing their bit " in comparison with the men who have gone to the front? I do not think that that will be contended for a moment, because the people who put their money into the war loan had the inducement of a very inviting rate of interest amounting to, perhaps, a little over 5 per cent. I contend that, instead of applying the term " democratic " to any phase of warfare, it is the very last term that should be applied to it. If conscription were adopted, and people were taken at the discretion of the military authorities, we will say, for the sake of argument, will it be contended that that would be democratic? I say it would not. I cannot adduce a higher confirmation of my opinion than by referring to the attitude of  Mr. Watt,  who at one time was Premier of Victoria. It will be remembered that when  Mr. Watt  rather blunderingly pushed himself into what was known as the Brennan controversy, and was challenged to enlist, he funked enlistment, or, at any rate, refused to enlist. And what reason did he give? He said that he was not prepared to enlist then, because, if he did, and the worst came to the worst, his children would not be sufficiently well provided for. 
In Melbourne, either through the press or from the platform. I ask  Senator Millen  to accept my assurance that that is the explanation he gave, because I honestly think that I am making no mistake in what I have said. 
I do not think that I am making a mistake. 
The point is that  Mr. Watt  gave that as his excuse; and I ask what about the provision made for his children by John Smith, who may have a family of seven or eight, and be in receipt of only 7s. or 8s. a day? If the worst came to the worst, whose children would be the better provided for?  Senator Millen  spoke of equality of opportunity. Where would be the equality of opportunity there? 
I expected that interjection, and I thank the honorable senator for it. It is suggested that, under conscription,  Mr. Watt  would be taken, and John Smith would be taken, and then, if the worst came to the worst, whose children would be least sufficiently provided for? 
It would depend on  Mr. Watt's  circumstances; but he has been Premier of Victoria for several years, and has been conducting a business. I do not wish to be personal in regard to him. It is reasonable to assume that  Mr. Watt's  children would be better provided for than the children of a man working for 7s. or 8s. a day. The State makes no discrimination' there. I contend, therefore, that  it is undemocratic, and no one should apply the term "democratic" to conscription without endeavouring to give reasons for his contention. Another claim often made outside for conscription is that the basis of the Labour movement and of industrialism is compulsion. It is urged that we are inconsistent in opposing compulsion for military service, and Professor Masson, at a meeting of the National Council of Women in Melbourne, said the Labour party agreed to compulsion in their Caucus, yet opposed it for military service. It requires a great stretch of imagination to see an analogy between the two things. When we try to force men into industrial organizations, we say, in effect, to them, " You must come in and help us to fight this industrial battle, and if we win you will share any advantage we secure equally with us." That is the industrial doctrine we preach, but do those good people who advocate military conscription offer the same liberal terms? Do they say to the man whom they are  advising  to go into the trenches, " If you go and fight our battles we will share with you when you come back every benefit gained by us and our class?" Not much. On the contrary, they say, " We cannot go to the war. We are over the age of forty -five" - and by the way, I do not see any great rush by thes-3 ardent patriots in deputations to the Acting Prime . Minister to be allowed to serve with their gallant Allies in France - " but we will provide the sinews of war at rates of interest much higher than pre-war rates, and when you come back we will throw you on to the commercial scrap-heap." At any rate, that is what they mean, although they are careful not to say it. The Public Service Inspector in Victoria recently said that the returned soldiers were not anxious for work, as they were too well treated, and too much feted, and the Tory press of Melbourne advised commercial people who were asked by returned soldiers for money to ring up the military police. It is also frequently argued in support of conscription that the workers of Australia enjoy industrial conditions well worth fighting for, and warranting the introduction of compulsion for their retention. I admit that the masses in this country have a good measure of industrial liberty, but every liberty they now have they have had to fight for in the teeth of the opposition of the very people who are now advising them on the hustings to go away and fight. 
I agree. that if the Germans win we shall have to fight them industrially, but if the Allies secure a brilliant victory tlie workers of this country will still have to fight very hard to retain the labour conditions they now enjoy. The economic battle against the workers is in operation under our very eyes in every city of the Commonwealth. Men are being replaced by girls, and the prices of foodstuffs have soared to aeroplane heights. 
I love Australia more because of the conditions to which I have referred than because of the mere accident of birth. I love Ireland because of its sufferings and wrongs and injustices, although I was not born there, and probably had I been born in China I would not have had much love for the place. A friend of mine, not unkindly, referred to people being " dragged up " in Australia, but it is on account of having been " dragged up " here that some of us know more about the industrial conditions which operated in this country in the early days than do some of those who take the opposite view. Perhaps some of us were brought more intimately into contact with them, and find it hard to forget them. My father, having been driven off the land in Ireland by the exactions of rack-renting landlords, had the liberty to walk out. After that he had the freedom to go to England, and there he had the inalienable privilege of working twelve hours a day for six days a week for 2d. an hour in a steel furnace under the grand old Union Jack, the banner of liberty, the flag which floats over an Empire on which the sun never sets! In the boom days when our opponents held sway in Australia, we saw able-bodied men, many of them immigrants, offering to work in a farming community for 10s. a week. One man with five children used to work from before daylight until after dark for 10s. a week. I make no complaint against the man who employed him, because that was the ruling rate of wage at the time. Let me take honorable senators back to the time of the shearers' strike in 1891. Those of us who come from Queensland and New South Wales know what liberty was practised by the employing classes then. As a grown boy, I well remember seeing -the Gatling guns going out west to shoot down the shearers who had presumed to go on_ strike for better labour conditions. We who represent Queensland know of the operation of the black-list amongst the squatters there - the black-list which contained the names of men who had made themselves prominent in advocating improved industrial condition. 
Nobody knows better than you, sir, of the freedom that was practised in the mining towns of 
Queensland, at Gympie, Mount Morgan, and Charters Towers, where men who had committed the heinous crime of voting for Labour candidates were turned out of the mines in droves after every election, notwithstanding that many of them had large families. Many of them were driven from the fields, and were unable to obtain employment in any of the mines. Their homes were broken up, and, to my own knowledge, some of them afterwards met their deaths in min-, ing exploration. The mine managers of those days were not so bloody in their methods as the Germans, but they were just as relentless and cruel, and when they could starve men off the fields of Gympie and Charters Towers they did it. Indeed, many of them had the temerity to tell marked men to get off the fields as they had no chance of obtaining work there. It is just as well that those who urge the workers to go and fight fcliberty should be reminded of how much they assisted them to get the liberty which they now enjoy. It is said that if the workers were in Germany they would have no unionism and no combination. During the adjournment, realizing that  Sir "William  Irvine, who was at one time Premier of Victoria, has constituted himself the apostle of conscription, I took the opportunity of perusing the Victorian  Ilansard  for 1903, with a view to ascertaining the precise provisions of the famous coercion Act, with which his name is associated. It seems to me that the provisions of that measure, which was brought forward at the time of the Victorian railway strike, will very well bear repetition here. Let us see what all the trouble was about. It appears that the railway servants in Victoria had for some time been labouringunder a number of grievances. They had suffered many pin-pricks, and I find that  Mr. Hamilton,  who then represented Sandhurst, grouped their grievances under the following ten headings - percentage reductions, Ave days a week work, reduction of holidays, withdrawal of privileges, withdrawal of half-share voucher, stoppage of increases, stoppage of extra pay for higher-grade duties, income tax, separate representation, and nine hours a day. On top of these disabilities, the Government ordered their non-affiliation with the Trades Hall. 
Yes. How many times have we read since ohe outbreak of this war that if the unionists of Australia were in Germany they would not be able to combine for their mutual advantage. This was the awful crime which the Victorian railway men committed when the Irvine Government brought forward its memorable coercion Bill, a few provisions of which I shall quote, in the belief that they will prove both instructive and interesting. They will show how much this champion of Democracy was prepared to do for the railway workers who had the temerity to go on strike. The second clause of that famous measure reads - 
Every person employed in the railway service either in permanent office or as a supernumerary, who, without the approval or permission of the Commissioners or before the expiration of fourteen clear days after giving notice of his intention to leave the said service, ceases to perform his duties, shall, if the strike is not previously concluded, be deemed to have joined in the strike and to have become a striker and to have committed an offence against this Act. 
Then sub-clause 2 sets out - 
The burden of proof that any such person is not a striker shall lie on such person. 
Let us see what was the punishment which  Mr. Irvine  was prepared to apply to persons who committed the crime of going on strike. The Bill which he brought forward provided - 
Every person who is guilty of an offence against any of the provisions of this Act shall, for every such offence, be liable on conviction before any Police Magistrate who, whether sitting in a Court of Petty Sessions or otherwise, shall have all the powers of a Court of Petty Sessions, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding £100 or to imprisonment for any term not exceeding twelve months or to both. 
It is interesting to compare these penalties with tho penalties imposed under the Irish Coercion Act of f882.  Dr. Maloney,  who was then a member of the Victorian Parliament, rather appositely instituted this comparison. The provisions of the Irish Coercion Act set out that - 
A person guilty of an offence against this Act shall be liable on summary conviction to imprisonment with or without hard labour for a term not exceeding six months or for any such less term as in that behalf has been fixed in any section of this Act. 
Six months' imprisonment might be imposed under the Irish Coercion Act, and twelve months' imprisonment or a fine of £100 or both, under  Mr. Irvine's  Co- ercion Act. Notwithstanding all the ridicule and deserved contempt which has been heaped upon the Irish Coercion Act, the fact remains that it allowed a right of appeal.  Mr. Irvine's  Bill did not. Other provisions in the latter measure were equally drastic. Clause 4 dealt with dismissals, and clause 5 with the filling of vacancies. The latter permitted of men being picked out of the street, insured them being given double pay for six months, promised them permanent employment for two years, and offered them other facilities without calling upon them to undergo any examination or any probationary period. 
I suppose there was very great danger to the passenger traffic around Melbourne at that time. Clause 7 is another very liberal provision to which I would ask  Senator Findley's  attention for a moment. It reads - 
Every person who prints, publishes, distri butes, issues, circulates, or posts up or exhibits any printed notice, notification, order, request, document, or paper, having, or which appears to have, as an object, the encouragement, maintenance, furtherance, extension, or continuance of the strike, or the collecting, receiving, keeping, distributing of any funds, or moneys foranysuch object, or containing any insulting or abusive language with respect to persons continuing in or accepting employment in the railway service, shall be guilty of an offence against this Act. 
Then clause 8 dealt with public meetings, and provided - 
1 ) Any meeting of more than six persons in any building or in the open air held or being held for the encouragement, maintenance, furtherance, extension, or continuance of the strike shall be deemed and taken to be an unlawful meeting. 
Every person who attends any such meeting shall be guilty of an offence against this Act. 
Any superintendent, inspector, or subinspector of police, or if so authorized by any superintendent, inspector, or sub-inspector, any sergeant of police may with such assistance as he deems necessary disperse any meeting which he has reasonable grounds for believing to be an unlawful meeting as aforesaid. 
Clause 10 sets out - 
In any prosecution for an offence against this Act a witness shall not in any court or before any justices be excused from answering any question on the ground that his answer may incriminate or tend to incriminate himself. 
It is remarkable that  Mr. Irvine  at this time claimed that the provisions of this iniquitous measure were the least that were necessary to quell the strike. The sentiments which he expressed on that occasion are set out on page 5 of the Victorian  Hansard  of the 13th May, 1903. He said: - 
The matter of policy in question was, whether right or wrong, that it was against the public interest of this State that the employees of the Railway Department should have any connexion, by affiliation or otherwise, with the Trades Hall. 
He went on to say that he had interviewed the Railways Commissioners, and suggested that certain action should be taken to bring about the severance of the men from the Trades Hall. The Railways Commissioners proposed, and the Government agreed, that the Executive Officers' Association should bring about their severance from the Trades Hall or resign their positions.  Mr. Irvine  further said - 
Through their long and constant employment - 
This is a jibe at the railway men who dared to strike - at high rates of pay, these men have become quite unconscious and entirely forgetful of the terrors of want of employment, and the personal dangers which surround acts of disobedience on their part. 

 Mr. Irvine was rather surprised that the men had forgotten the terrors of want of employment and evils of dismissal. And this is the man who has been going about the suburbs of Melbourne lately asking the young men of Australia to go to the front - to volunteer to go into the trenches to fight in the name of liberty!  Senator Millen  did not mention the efforts made by his colleagues and his attitude towards unionism in those days. He conveniently forgot to do that, of course. 

 - Senator Millen contented himself with arguments that the workers of Australia should be forced to go to the front. 
I say nothing of the kind, but I do say that we have nothing to thank  Sir William  Irvine or  Senator Millen  for in the matter of industrial liberty. Then, again,  Mr. Irvine  said - 
There are some foolish persons who, as always happens in such cases, with an absolute want of recognition of the true principle, are willing to urge compromise, conciliation, or arbitration. No such thing can take place. 

 Mr. Irvine was not going to be bothered with any conciliation and arbitration, but at present he seems to be coquetting with  Mr. Hughes,  to be making amorous advances to the Prime Minister over the backyard fence with the idea, probably, of being elevated to the High Court Bench, seeing that it is the usual custom, when an y-j appointments are to be made, for the Government to look around and get the deepest-dyed Tory they can. The Labour Government should complete the appointment by making  Sir William  Irvine a judge of the Arbitration Court, in order that he may have an opportunity of handing out some of his own brand of liberty to the workers of Australia. Listen again to what this lover of liberty - this man who is now beseeching the manhood of Australia to enlist, and to fight for the glorious traditions which have been handed down to us - has to say. On. page 8 he is reported to have said - 
It is our imperative duty to teach them a lesson that neither they nor any future railway servants in  Victoria  will ever forget. ..... It is only by a complete and absolute submission to the Department and to the public whom they have injured, that they can hope to be taken back again into grace and favour by the public or by the Government. 
Evidently he wanted to teach them and their descendants, to the tenth or even a hundredth generation, a lesson which neither they nor any future railway servants of Australia would ever forget. 
If their memory were not so short  Sir William  Irvine would have been hooted off the platform every time he made an appeal now in the name of liberty.  Sir William  Irvine typifies the horrible system which we do not want in Australia. As  Senator Guthrie  mentioned, all the pension rights of the railway servants were swept away, and when the strike was declared off all were taken back except members of the executive, and about twenty others who were designated agitators.  Mr. Irvine  openly stated, and the report is contained in the volume from which I am quoting, that where a railway servant and a striker had been working side by side, all thingsbeing equal, the railway servant who had. not gone out on strike, or the blackleg who had come in, would get preferenceover the striker who had gone back. This is the same  Mr. Irvine  who, I believe, engineered or advised our Fusion friends to go for a double dissolution on the question of preference to unionists,, and on his own utterances, as contained in this volume, he was giving preference toscabs in connexion with the Victorianrailway strike. We are told that there  is  no eight-hours day in Germany, and that the workers of Australia would soon find that out. I believe we have had an eighthours union in Australia for something over sixty years, and yet I am not aware of any State in the Commonwealth in which there is a statutory eight-hours day. We may have it, but not to my knowledge. Let us come to the time when there was trouble with the sugar-growers of Queensland, when the men were working twelve hours a day for six days a week for a wage of from 22s. 6d. per week to 25s. a week. When the workers became organized they sent a letter through their representatives asking for a conference, but the employers would not meet them, and the men had to go out on strike, with the result that the whole of the resources of the Queensland Government were placed behind the refinery monopoly to keep those men working eleven and twelve hours a day. That was only five years ago. We can come even nearer. We can come to four years ago, to the time of the Brisbane tramway strike. What did the workers ask for there? They asked only for the right to display the badge of their union - the badge of liberty. But what was the answer given by the class represented by  Senator Millen?  They said, "No, you shall not wear the emblem of your union ; we will lock you out." It is within the memory of every honorable senator what a howl went out to the then Prime Minister,  Mr. Fisher,  that the Military Forces should be sent to Queensland. I venture to say that if the Cook Government or the Fusion Government had been in power when that request was made by  Mr. Denham,  the military would have been sent to Queensland; but if they had it would probably have been the end of militarism in Australia. Personally, I am glad for many reasons that they were not, for I fear that if they had been sent there would have been bloodshed in Australia. In some quarters these strikes are referred to as illustrations of mob rule, but even if it is mob rule those responsible for it can claim that they are making no greater mess of Christianity and civilization than the rule of kings and constitutions have brought about up to date. The mob, at any rate, may lay the nattering unction to their souls that if they cannot do better they cannot very well do worse. It is also said that a duty devolves upon every man to defend his country, and that the Government are justified in taking men forcibly and sending them to the front; but I say that it is the province of no Government - I do not care what Government it is - to force a man to shoot down his fellow men. I cannot reconcile the attitude of some men, and especially clergymen, with my conception of Christianity, when they get on the platform and howl for blood, declaring that to shoot more Germans is the only way to win the war. I cannot grant it as the right of any Government to take any man by the back of the neck and force him into the firing line. Once conscription is introduced in Australia, we shall have a military caste here for all time. We are supposed to be fighting militarism in Prussia, and yet every day we are building it up here. What a degrading effect it has on the people. Let us consider what we have read in the newspapers. We have heard that in Germany girls of sixteen years of age may be married, without almost any permission at all, by a justice of the peace. We read, also, that the soldiers of France are periodically sent home to their families for economic reasons. Even Professor Masson, here in Melbourne, has said that married men have a better right to go to the front than single men, owing to the fact that their energy has been expended. Even  Senator Pearce  stated that single men are of more economic value than are married nien. This shows the trend of civilization under the curse of war. We find the highest public men discussing these matters from an £ s. d. point of view, for that is what it amounts to. It does not require a large stretch of imagination to conceive a time when we shall be talking of mating Australian boys and girls as we now talk of mating stock. This is to repair the wastage of war, and to carry out the hideous dictates of capitalism, because no war was ever yet waged that was not brought upon those engaged in it by the weight of capitalism. What an inviting prospect this holds out to the parents, and particularly to the mothers, of Australia. The fathers of Australia may believe that they love their offspring, and very likely they do, but with nothing like the pure, holy, and unalloyed love which their mothers have for them. When the mother iii Australia goes down almost to the gates of death in fulfilling the highest province of a woman, what a consolation it will be to her in the 'f future,  when, having brought forth her first-born son, and having reached that stage which is supposed to be the nearest approach to Heaven on earth, she places her wan face alongside the velvety skin of her babe, and all she can say is, " Some day, my darling son, I may live to see you feeding the guns of capitalism and the enemies of civilization and labour." If the child be a girl, what a consolation it will be to the mother to be able to say, "Some day I may see you mated to a man before he goes to the war, in order to repair the wastage of the war." I cannot say that such a prospect appeals to me. And yet it is not so far removed to-day from Australia, or from the world at large. I cannot think that our opponents have acted rightly through their civil and military Courts, because they are the opponents of Democracy, and Democracy is opposed to conscription. Instead of prohibiting discussion on these subjects, it would have been far better if free speech had been allowed. It appears to me that the conscriptionists in Australia are awaiting the return of  Mr. Hughes.  We gather that from the conservative newspapers. 
The morning newspapers say that those who advocate conscription cannot expect anything to be done until  Mr. Hughes  comes back. 
They may expect something from  Mr. Hughes.  He has turned out to be the " White Hope " of the Tories of Great Britain. It appears to me that the. Tories in Great 
Britain have been using him as a stick with which to flog the Asquith Government. 
No, not merino Tories. The Tory of the Coalition brand does not meet with the approval of the merino Tories. An article appeared in one of the newspapers the other day stating that  Mr. Hughes  had been offered very strong inducements to lead the merino Tories in Great Britain, and throw out the Coalition Government; but, to his credit be it said,  Mr. Hughes  refused that very tempting offer. I believe that the Tories, not only in Great Britain, but also in Australia, have prostituted the Empire, its honour, and everything else ever since the war broke out, and always in the name of party. They are doing it now, not, of course, in actual words, but they never miss an opportunity, and it is party with them all the time while they talk of a political truce.  Senator Pearce  has said that 189,000 men have gone to the front, and that 62,000 who have enlisted are in camp, making a total of 251,000 enlisted under the voluntary system.  Senator Millen  has said that that has surprised everybody. I think he is right. At the time the howl was raised for 100,000 men shortly after the outbreak of war, it seemed a stupendous task to secure them. But, now that the quarter - of-a-million mark has been reached and passed, and the most intolerant and enthusiastic Jingo has been surprised,  Senator Millen,  in his next breath, says that men are not coining forward, and that not enough has been done. It appears to me that Australia- has exceeded all expectations, and is likely to go on doing so. If we have enlisted 250,000 men, and are getting 9,000 a month, according to the statement of the Minister of Defence, we have nothing at all to be ashamed of. We have overlooked altogether, in considering this matter, what has been done in the matter of equipment. That has been continually forgotten by our opponents, who, if they had their way, and but for the Labour party, would have made it impossible to provide the necessary equipment. They may criticise the output of rifles and of ammunition, and the output of the Clothing Factory, the Woollen Factory, and the Harness Factory, and claim that the 
Labour Government could do more in the matter of equipment j but if the Fusion Government - the Cooks, the Irvines, and the Millens - had had their way, there would not have been one of those establishments created. 
Every one of the institutions I have mentioned were most strenuously opposed by the party to which  Senator Millen  belongs. 
I accept the assurance of  Senator Millen. 
I remember reading how honorable members of the Opposition vehemently opposed the starting of these Government factories, and yet they now have the effrontery to say that not enough is being done. Could hypocrisy go further? Long ago I determined not to try to impress1 on anybody what the Labour party had done, but I know that it has done more than its share as compared with the Liberal party, who have only given their money at high rates of interest. If people are not satisfied with what the workers have done in connexion with the war, I can only tell them to "lump it." I sincerely trust that if the question of conscription is referred to the country, the voting will be restricted to persons of military age and the mothers of Australia. I may say that conscription will not personally concern me, because I am burdened with a leg that will not stand a 5-miles march. I am not prepared to leave the settlement of the question to men who will not give their wealth voluntarily. I am sorry that many Labour members and organzations place conscription of men and conscription of wealth on the same basis. These should not be mentioned in the same breath; and I for one would never place filthy lucre on an equality with sacred human life. However; before 1 will listen to any argument for the conscription of life, there must be conscription of wealth. We have been told that the Government have the power to put the latter into operation, and, if so, they ought to exercise the power before they talk of conscription of men. So long as I have the honour of holding a seat here I shall vote against any such proposal to interfere with the liberty and democracy of the people. It would not be good for Australia to have fastened on it the thraldom of militarism, which is enveloping us every day. 
If I were forced to do any shooting and take life- 
Yes, and I expressed in the Senate my approval of the measure, because I saw the good it would do to our young men physically. Had I had the same kind of training I would possibly not be now so weak chested. If were forced to shoot and take life, I say candidly that I would sooner shoot some of the food exploiters in Australia than go to the other side of the world and shoot at the head of a Turk whom I should not afterwards see.' It would, in my view, be a lesser sin to shoot some of the butter ring who locked up 500 tons of butter in cold storage in Melbourne and sent up tlie price 3d. and 4d. a lb. 
Just about as good a recruiting speech as any made by the friends of the honorable senator, one of whom,  Sir Frank  Madden,  Speaker  of the "Victorian Legislative Assembly, described the workers as " lice." I trust that the Government will not handle this serpent of conscription, but will first see that the man on top with the money does his fair share towards the defence of Australia. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Lynch)  adjourned. 
Senate adjourned at 10.32 p.m. ' 
I ask the Assistant Minister controlling the wheat pool whether he is aware that in Tasmania the wheat and flour market is considerably disturbed at the present time owing to the fact that the wheat-growers of the State are unable to sell their wheat at favorable prices, the same thing applying to those who have flour to sell. Will the Minister consider the advisability of permitting the producers of Tasmania to ship a certain portion of flour to England together with the flour which the Wheat Board is shipping to the Old Land? Will the Minister undertake to place this matter before the Wheat Board for consideration ? 
There are one or two difficulties in the way of what the honorable senator proposes. After all. the Wheat Board is controlling a cooperative scheme between the several States, and unfortunately Tasmania is not represented on the Board. The States to whom it is necessary to appeal through the Wheat Board, if the desire of the producers of Tasmania is to be granted, are particularly keen upon selling their own wheat, but I shall bring the matter under the notice of the executive officer of the Wheat Board. It may be possible to make some suitable arrangement, if not to give effect to all that the Tasmanian producers desire, to at least help them on their way. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister of Home Affairs lay on the table of the Library all papers relating to the re-appointment of  Mr. W.  B. Griffin as Federal Capital Director of Design and Construction? 
I do not think there will be any objection to the laying of these papers on the table of the Library, and I shall endeavour to have them produced. 
Is the Minister of Defence able to give the Senate an answer to the question I addressed to him a day or two ago concerning a permanent central address of Australian soldiers in France ? 
We have sent a cable to the War Office authorities asking for the information. We have not yet received a reply, but I will make it available as soon as it is received. 
Is the Minister of Defence in a position to reply to my question concerning the right of Australian soldiers to appeal from sentences of courts martial? 
I have not the information in answer to the honorable senator's question, but as soon as I get it I will make it known to the Senate. 
I ask the Acting Prime Minister whether, in view of the number of married men with large families who have heavy mortgages on their homes, and who are at present at the front or in camp prepared to go to the. front when called upon, the Government have taken into consideration the advisability of paying interest on mortgages on the homes of these soldiers whilst absent fighting for Australia? If the Government have not given the matter consideration, will the Acting Prime Minister bring it before the Cabinet, pointing out that these volunteers are fighting, not only in their own interests and the interests of their families, but also in the interests of those who command and control the wealth of this great Commonwealth? 
I will bring the matter suggested by the honorable member's question under the notice of the Government for consideration. 
Following upon the last question and answer, will the Acting Prime Minister at the same time bring under the notice of his colleagues in Cabinet the fact that there is legislation in Great Britain which protects the interests of the soldier at the front who, by reason of his being there, makes default or is unable to make periodical payments in connexion with a building society or other obligation undertaken to make provision for himself and his family ? Will the honorable senator bring this fact under the notice of his Cabinet with a view of affording similar protection to Australians at the front? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister of External Affairs lay on the table of the Library all papers in connexion with the appointment of  Mr. Butler  as a third class clerk in the High Commissioner's Office in London ? 
I have no objection to lay the papers on the table of the Library. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister of Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
What is the amount of rent being paid for premises and office accommodation for the various Departments which have been removed temporarily from the Customs House, Sydney? 
The answer is- 
The rent being paid is at the rate of £4,150 per annum. 
I am safe in saying that the Senate enjoyed to a very great extent the two speeches we heard yesterday, the one from the Leader of the Opposition, and the other from  Senator Ferricks.  They were delivered from opposite standpoints, and, on that account, naturally aroused a considerable degree of interest concerning a subject that is at present engaging serious public attention in Australia. I was rather pleased with the way that the Leader of the Opposition dealt with the subject. Of course, his style was different from that of  Senator Ferricks.  I suppose this was on account of their difference in temperament. -He dealt with the subject in a way that threw more light on it than had previously been shed. Hitherto this particular question has been responsible for a great deal more heat than light. We must keep our tempers, as well as possible, under subjection, if we are to record_ a reasoned and seasoned judgment in relation to it, because when passions are inflamed it is impossible to arrive at a clear decision. Therefore, I would plead that, in the present case, we should be indulgent to the last degree concerning opinions expressed by all who take part in the debate. 
I have always been in favour of a system that will insure the very best effort being put forward by this country in the present struggle. I have totally disagreed with the policy that has been in operation up to the present, though on former occasions, when I have had the temerity to express my views, my voice has been like that of one crying in the wilderness. The developments of the past five or six months have brought home to us the necessity of seriously considering whether or not the policy pursued by the Commonwealth is best calculated to insure success for the Allied armies so far as the contribution of this country is concerned. This is the paramount question to every man who has a home in Australia; and arising out of that question is a further one that we, as a component part of the Empire, should realize that we are expected to make an adequate effort to maintain unimpaired the strength of the Empire, and the influence it wields in the councils of. the nations. We admit, of course, that there have been times in the history of our Empire when its record has not been of the cleanest. The best that we can do with those black pages which disfigure the story of the Empire's career in the past is to draw over them a merciful veil of forgetfulness. Prominent statesmen have always been ready to admit this fact, but, notwithstanding those blemishes, there is the compensating reflection that to-day our Empire stands for a higher and greater measure of justice and human freedom than any other Power on the surface of the globe. The present, in my opinion, is the most perilous and momentous hour in the history of our country. Our national existence is threatened, and it behoves us as thinking men to fashion in our minds the best policy to guide us through this dark valley of depression and lead us to the open plains where victory shall be ours. Australia to-day is menaced. Some people may delude themselves that we, as a remote people surrounded by vast and friendly seas, are removed from the danger that might be ours if we were not so situated. ' But we have to recall the immediate past to satisfy ourselves on that point. The ocean may be on occasions no protection if the enemy possesses a navy which can attack our coast-line. What has happened in Russia from successful Japanese attacks may happen here. We must secure our position. If we want to put up the best fight possible for the security which we enjoy, and which we obtained practically without a stroke, we must stretch our arms and exercise our minds to devise the best possible weapon to deliver a deadly blow which will bring the brute abroad to-day in Europe into subjection. 
The issue of the war involves the safety of Australia. We have in our possession an island continent, with a small population and vast empty spaces - a tempting bait for an overcrowded, old-world country. Our power to absorb a vast alien population constitutes our greatest danger. If we were an old-world country, with an overflowing population, the risk of invasion would not be nearly so great, because if the German standard were triumphant Germany would not then look in that direction for an outlet for her congested millions. She would be on the lookout for a country like our own where her influence and her surplus population could be permanently planted, and this young country offers the very field that she requires. If we are determined to be free, we must hold Australia against all-comers, but determination and courage have never won a battle, any more than strength of numbers has done so. To insure success we must have a combination of the three. To any one who has studied the change in German thought in the last twenty-five years our danger from German aggression must be plain. 
The present policy of Germany, in the words of Bernhardi, is "worldpower or downfall " ; but years ago, when the ownership of the South Sea Islands was still undecided, and it was resolved to make Fiji a British possession, Bismarck, then the mouth-piece of Germany, when approached by diplomats on the subject, replied, " Where the devil is Fiji?" That contemptuous utterance was typical of German thought at the time, just as Bernhardi's arrogant saying exemplifies the German policy of to-da'y. Only a few years ago, through the weakness of the then British Government, Germany gained a foothold in New Guinea, and I would ask those who have still some lingering admiration for things German or for German rale to tell me whether an Australian pioneer or prospector would have received a cordial welcome in that country while the German flag flew there ? He would have been told to get out, or, if allowed to land, would have been so hedged in with conditions that any discovery he made would not have been worth a brass farthing to him. If the fate of Germany is world-power, andnot downfall, the conclusion is irresistible that we shall be subject to attack, perhaps in the earliest hours of that nation's activity. One portion of the Empire is safe, because of the existence of the Monroe Doctrine, but our national existence may at any time be threatened, and even wiped out at a blow. The writings of the present day publicists and speakers of Germany supply a full answer to the question whether we would be better off under German rule. All the leaders of thought of that nation urge that the State should be made supreme at the expense of the individual, and particularly at the expense of the masses. They are prepared, and have been for years, for the purpose of inculcating in the German mind the belief that Germany is destined to be the supreme ruler of the world, to sacrifice even the virtues which enrich the human character in every country. Nietzsche, described by Frederic Harrison as one who stood at the finest summit of modern learning in Europe, preached one doctrine alone - that the power of the State should be supreme, even if it crushed all independence and all virtue out of the individual. His doctrine was that everything of which the human mind and heart were capable should be subordinated to the idea of making the German 
State and German rule supreme throughout the world. 
Let us now see what that rule stands for. Nietzsche, as I have remarked, in common with another publicist, Treitschke, said some remarkable things, and it is well to remember that one of Germany's leading men, Gerhert Hauptmann, a few years ago affirmed that a copy of Nietzsche's masterpiece, " Thus Spake Zarathustra," was to be found in the knapsack of every cultured German soldier. What did Nietzsche say? I only wish that his opinions were better known. He said - 
War and courage have done greater things than love of one's neighbour. Not your pity but your bravery has hitherto saved the unfortunate. 
He then went on to invert the beatitudes - to invert the Sermon on the Mount, and every virtue and every precept that any person claiming to be a believer in civilization to-day reverences so much in his heart. He said - 
They say " Blessed are the peacemakers," but I say unto you, " Blessed are the war-makers," for they shall be called, if not the children of Jehovah, the children of Odin, who is greater than Jehovah. 
This writer then went on to refer to the military state in the following terms : - 
The military state is the last means of adhering to the great traditions of the past. By means of it the strong and superior man is preserved. 
Then he touched upon Christianity. Christianity, I am happy to say, does not need any advocacy in this Chamber. But Nietzsche, with an egotism which almost borders upon insanity, in speaking on Christianity, said - 
I pronounce my sentence. I condemn Christianity. I call it the one great curse, the one great extrinsic depravity, the one great instinct of revenge for which no expedient is sufficiently poisonous, secret, subterranean, mean. I call it the one immortal blemish of mankind. 

 His final allusion is to the inculcation of those natural virtues such as charity, forgiveness, and courage, which, in a civilized state, we so much desire to foster. Referring to these virtues he said - 
They guarantee the contemptible species of well-being dreamt of by shopkeepers, Christians, cows, women, Englishmen, and other Democrats. 
Then he proceeds to give a final testimony as to the character of that noble race which his philosophy would be capable of  producing. Here I may mention that in his philosophy there are to be two divisions of mankind. The first is to consist of the servile, the humble, the impossible, the common herd. These are to be left to the devil and statistics. There is to be no hope for them. But in regard to the higher species he says : - 
Deep in the nature of all these noble races there lurks the beast of prey, the blonde beast  restfully  roving in search of beauty and victory. 
Is there not a very strong resemblance in that picture by Nietzsche with the terrible pathway which has marked the advance of the German Army through Belgium to its present front in France? Has not his teaching been carried out to the very letter in Belgium and the north of France? 
Now I turn to the man who has been allowed by a spurious Democracy to continue at the head of Germany. The marvel is that such an individual has been permitted to occupy such an important position for so long. The Emperor Wilhelm, in referring to the destiny of his country and his own allotted sphere in particular, said - 
Remember that the German people are the chosen of God. On mc, the German Emperor, the spirit of God has descended. I am his sword, his weapon, his vice-regent. Woe to the disobedient and death to cowards and un believers. 
If an occupant of the British Throne uttered anything so arrogant and blasphemous of that kind, I would give very little for his crown, and still less for his life. That is the difference between the order of things in the British Empire and the order of things which has been approved and applauded in the German Empire. Treitschke, who figures very largely as one of the teachers of German policy, in speaking of the Army, says - 
It is the one institution which brings the citizens together as citizens. To relegate the army to a subordinate position in the State or make it a mere instrument of diplomacy is old-fashioned political' science. 
That statement throws a lurid side-light upon the methods that he would have adopted in making the Army the dominant force in the Empire. Then a final word as revealing the inward meaning of this hell-hatched policy of frightfulness. A recent German Army order set forth - 
By the favour of God we have been provided with a new weapon - poison gas. 
Yes; and I believe that we have compulsory military service here. 
In what defence are we now engaged ? 
Then why do we not supply the men that are required ? I will have a word to say upon that aspect of the matter presently. 
I feel that what I have said was very necessary to prove that the problem which we are up against today is one which necessitates our digging to the very root of things, instead of merely scratching the surface, as  Senator Needham  has apparently done. The last quotation I shall make to snow the feeling of the central nation at present against us is from the War Lord Von der Goltz. He has said that the - inexorableness and seemingly hideous callousness of warfare is' necessary to him who would achieve great things in war. 
All these quotations go to show that in Germany, in the philosophic sphere, as well as amongst those actually engaged in carrying on war, there is the one intention and opinion prevailing. They all recommend the employment of force, utterly regardless of all the hardship, ruin, and distress which the use of that force may be directly responsible for. 
Why are Ave engaged in this war, and how do we intend to deal with it? From my study of human events in the past, it is my belief that war was inevitable. Nearly every measure of human freedom which has been wrung from tyrants in the past, has been .wrung from, them by one means, and one means alone, and that is by war; if not by war in its generally accepted sense, by means quite as effective and calling quite as loudly for the exercise of all the sterner qualities of human nature. Looking into the genesis and essence of war, it must be admitted that in the past it has been, and possibly in the future it will be for a very long time to come, an absolutely necessary condition. A lot is heard about appraising the value of human life. But it has to be remembered that there is something more precious and priceless than mere life itself,, and that is life worth living. To secure that state and preserve it inviolate, awful as it may seem, life would have to be sacrificed. The surrender of life in the past by lovers of liberty has been the direct means of conferring upon us in Australia the very measure of liberty that we are enjoying to-day. Some people say that they do not want war, merely hecause they will not go to the trouble of trying to understand what life and liberty really mean. War is not necessary to servile races who are satisfied to lie down and be kicked like whining dogs, and to lick the hand that smites them. The wars of the past, such as the French Revolution, the revolution in England, the American War, and the Boer War, have been necessary. Viewing the wars of the past, it must immediately occur to our minds that tyranny and injustice on the one side have had to be opposed by all those finer qualities which, fortunately, are inherent in human nature still. _ Peoples governed by unbridled ambition, by pride, selfishness, and the greed of empire, by the desire that more scope might be given for the exercise of the meaner qualities of human nature, have found themselves pitted against the finer minds that have resisted the imposition of the will of those possessed of such feelings, and war has always been the result. The French Revolution was a civil war of vast proportions ; and am I to be told by persons who speak of the horrors of war that those who shared in that revolution, which shook Europe to its centre, were not entirely justified in tearing from those who had so long used it for their own purposes the tyrannical power which they possessed ? Let me say that those who participated in that war, as well as in the British war under Cromwell, could have done nothing else if they looked to secure the life and freedom, peace and happiness that all our hearts are set upon. Of the American and other Avars, the same things may be said, and in the case of most of the historical wars to which I might refer, it may be said that they were waged against tyranny, injustice and aggression by those who believed in freedom and the standards of justice and liberty which we in Australia prize so much. We may very well in our better judgment detest war. It is all right to detest it, but we cannot stop war by hating it. If we meet a poisonous reptile in the street we cannot exterminate it by any merely pious aspiration. We cannot deal with a poisonous reptile we meet in our pathway, or that gets into our bed at night by merely saying with Buddhistic resignation that we consider it hateful and wish, it away. We must use some measure of force to get rid of it. The only way to exterminate it is to get a stick, knock it on the head and kill it, and when we find the human viper abroad we must adopt the same means to deal with him. The only way in which we can make sure that there will be no detestable condition of war in the future is for us to war against those people who make war a reality. We must war against those who war against peace. 
This may not appeal to  Senator Senior,  but I would remind him that whether we view this matter of war amongst communities of men, or in the scientific world, we find that under certain conditions it is inevitable. There is war going on at the present time within  Senator Senior  for the preservation of his life. It is a wellattested scientific fact that disease in the human body can only be coped with by a form of warfare upon the elements which are the cause of it. The invasion of the human body by small-pox is prevented by the injection into a healthy person of the attenuated virus of some disease. So the destruction of  Senator Senior's  body by small-pox might be prevented by the use of the very elements that were employed in the actual warfare of the disease in another person. I am glad that the honorable senator is living to-day in good health, but if he is it is only because the benevolent bacteria in his system has been able to wage a successful warfare against the invading malignant hordes that would make an attack upon his life. 
I know that Senators Ferricks and Senior are very prone to go back to mother nature for inspiration and advice, and in what I have just said I was merely taking  Senator Senior  back to .that guide and cherished monitor. I was pointing out that though Senators Ferricks and Senior may have been victims in the past to the warfare of elements unfriendly to their life, their present healthy condition is due to the warfare waged against those elements by more friendly elements that have succeeded in pulling them through and making them living examples of what successful warfare means. 
I was asked just now by  Senator Blakey  to say what all this has to do with conscription. I invited consideration of the essence and genesis of war, and I came to the conclusion that war in the past has been inevitable, and may be inevitable for many a long age to come. It is our duty at the present time to discover the best means to enable us to achieve victory in the present inevitable war. "We have two systems to consider - the voluntary system and the suggested system of national service. I do not wish to go back to the origin of voluntary service so far as the British Empire is concerned. If I did we should find it associated with very unworthy practices. Those of us who have given any study to history know when, partly by accident and partly by necessity, voluntary service came into use so far as our Empire is concerned. We know also that many of the greater wars in which the British Empire has been engaged were not won by the operation of the voluntary system at all, but that the British went to impecunious rulers of tin-pot European principalities to obtain hirelings to help them in their wars. The lessons of history in the past do not show the voluntary system to have operated in such a way in Great Britain as to give us cause for pride. The voluntary system was not effective in securing men in sufficient numbers to meet the situation in the American and other wars. It led to the creation and encouragement of that brutish human specimen, the buccaneer, the hired man-butcher, who killed for pay. The Empire has not been called upon in any war of note to depend solely on the voluntary system. It is true that in the inconsequential wars and periodical struggles of the last twenty-five or fifty years Great Britain has been able to muddle through under the voluntary system, but Ave are now engaged in a campaign in which it is necessary that we should put forth our greatest effort and discard all shibboleths. We have to look around and see just where we stand. We are forced now to inquire into the system and judge it on its merits. We have to say whether as sensible men we are satisfied to continue. We have arrived at a time when in this country we are engaged in a fight for our national existence, and that being so, we have to appeal to our manhood to come forward and " toe the scratch." It is quite true that under the operation of the voluntary system quite a respectable number of men have come forward. It is true that they recognise the nation's danger, and have come forward to play a manly part in the struggle; but it is equally true that very many of our men are not seized of the imminence of the peril which' surrounds Australia and the Empire at large. This peril needs to be brought home to them so that they may be compelled to do their duty to their country. I have been told that the present system has proved successful. In what way? It is a spineless policy that appeals to certain of our men simply because they have more spirit than their fellows. The voluntary system will never receive any kind of support or encouragement from me. If we look into the sphere of civil activity we find that in every case the interest of the individual is subordinated to the interest, of the people. Take the education of our children as an instance. Or take sanitation and other civil activities. In all of those activities, which are the sum of our social fabric, the central principle is that the individual is subordinated to the national will. If Australia were threatened with an invasion of disease to-morrow, honorable senators who are now interrupting me would be in favour of a common policy which would make the individual merge into the community and humble himself to the whole in order that the health of the community should be safeguarded by common action; but in the higher sphere of action, in the face of the supreme danger of invasion, they are prepared to allow the citizen to please himself whether he will come forward and fight for his country or leave it alone. This voluntary system represents a shiftless, spineless, soulless, stupid policy, and we must now consider our position, apart altogether from past predilections, and decide what is best to be done to win this war, and win it soon. 
Comparatively speaking we have, but I will say no more on that point. We had the figures given to us the other day by the Acting Prime Minister, showing what has been done, and we have learned lately that Great Britain has abandoned her voluntary system. Speaking of the relative efforts made by Australia and the Mother Country, we have it on the authority of  Mr. Asquith  that 5,000,000 men have been enrolled, and we understand that that vast number is independent of the number which Lord Derby has been the means of calling to the country's aid. In Great Britain the proportion of men called to the colours is about one to five or six of the population. Have we done likewise here ? We have, roughly speaking, about 286,000 men, whereas, if we had numbers in the same proportion as in Great Britain, we would have mustered about 700,000 men. 
They are given on the authority of  Mr. Asquith,  and it is a simple question to compare the populations of the two countries. Compulsion, in my opinion, is a sensible system, entirely fitting in with democratic ideals. I fail to see why any Democrat should be wedded any longer to this voluntary system, which has proved such a sham, a fraud, and a delusion. We were told that we should wait until the Mother Country had acted in the direction of conscription before doing anything in Australia. Well, the Mother Country has acted, and now those who took that stand in Australia are probably Hunting for another excuse to evade the issue here. 
SenatorReady. - The Mother Country has not included Ireland in the scheme. 
I am not responsible for what the Mother Country has done. 
I am not, and if my position on that point needs to be defined it is that I believe that Ireland should be included. I do not believe that. Ireland or any other country should loaf upon another Power in a crisis like the present. If any part of an organized society stands to gain immunity from a common danger through united effort, then that part should shoulder its full share of that effort. If you want my straight opinion on that subject, there it is for you. We have been told by the Minister of Defence that  Dr. Springthorpe's  statement concerning the effect of campaigning on youths of immature age is not substantiated by the opinion of other medical officers who have been to the front. But we do not need any further corroboration of  Dr. Springthorpe's  statement than is to be found any day in our streets when we may see immature young men in the ranks.  Dr. Springthorpe  told us that boys of seventeen and eighteen years of age, by reason of their immature physical condition, have suffered so severely that they will never be the same men again. That is what the voluntary system is doing for the manhood of this country. 
Yes, I am aware that common sense is practised there in spite of lapses in other respects. That the German authorities are calling up young men of eighteen years of age, but side by side with that we have the statement of  Colonel Repington,  that among all the German prisoners of war in England he found none under twenty years of age. Conscription in our enemy country is putting the mature men into the firing line. Why are we not doing the same thing? We are not doing it because we are holding fast to the stupid voluntary system, which takes young men who are not physically fit, and makes of them physical wrecks. Another point to be observed is the fact that under the voluntary system we are making serious inroads upon our married population. When our Forces had reached the strength of about 100,000 the proportion of married men was about 7 per cent., so that if the same proportion is being main tained - and I think it has been rather increased - the married men will probably represent about 10 per cent. now. On that reckoning we must have between 35,000 and 40,000 fatherless homes in Australia, because under this beautiful voluntary system single men are allowed to parade the streets and look at the married men marching off to fight (their country's battles for them. Do honorable senators feel satisfied ? Are they proud of it? I am not. I have raised my voice before, and my vote will be cast later, against the present system. Our best men are going to the front. Even those who are opposed to the compulsory system admit that the best are being wrenched from our midst. We are making a deep draft upon our richest blood, and, having regard to the fact that we may have to fight for our very existence in the near future, I ask every member of this Chamber if it is in the highest interests of the safety of this country to allow this to go on, while the inferior spirits remain to propagate our race ? If Australia is called upon to fight for its liberty, will not the spirit that won us imperishable renown on the slopes of Gallipoli, as shown by our best sons, tell more than the spirit of those who have so far refused to go? 
With one accord they would say, " Change your system, and get sensible; use that uncommon commodity, common sense, to get Australia's manhood marshalled and mustered to push this task to a final conclusion." I have met scores of them, and they will tell you nothing else. The present system has nothing to recommend it from the standpoint of economy, or Democracy, the future of the race, or the safety of the country. While I impute no motives to individual advocates of the opposite view, I am here to condemn as strongly as possible a system which is capable of producing so much mischief, and which cannot put forward the nation's best effort. 
We hear a lot about the conscription of wealth. It is a very taking phrase, yet when we get those gentlemen down from the clouds, to put the terms of their proposal in black and white, where are they going to draw the line ? Wherever they draw it a manifest injustice or favour will be done to those below or above it. Is it necessary for me to say that I am in favour of the conscription of wealth? I am here to give all the power that any Government want to put into effect the right which they have at present to conscript wealth, but I entirely disagree with those who advocate the taking of wealth without interest. Their policy is for the present generation to take on its shoulders the full burden of the war, and pay cash for it, leaving no burden to future generations. If only from the point of view of preventing future wars, this would be a most ill-advised course. A man estimates an advantage in proportion to the price he has to pay for it, and if future generations find that this war has cost them nothing, the foolish generation of to-day having paid cash for it over the counter, leaving them only a memory, and no interest bill to meet, they will not be restrained from entering into wars on their own account, as otherwise they might be. But if they have to pay part of the cost of this war, it will make them, count the cost of another. I would, therefore, point out that the conscription of wealth, without interest, is a course which may encourage, instead of prevent, the recurrence of disastrous wars in the future. From every standpoint a change of policy and system is called for, and we can push this conflict to a successful conclusion only by supplying all the men and munitions possible. As the freedom of choice given to the individual in the past has led to numbers holding back, we must devise some means of depriving those men of their freedom in this vital struggle. 
That is simply postponing the difficulty. If it is only to get the men and make them fit to take their part, we must change the system, because training is indispensable to the soldier: The policy of drift advocated in some quarters will no longer serve our purpose. Ian Hamilton's cry was for men, and more men. He told us that if he had had man-power enough, he would have been in Constantinople. The British War Office authorities long ago saw the necessity for more men, but the conscription measure in the Old Country was postponed to the last, owing to the inability of the leaders of public opinion to come together and adopt that very necessary policy. It is the extra horse in the team that we want to get over the brow of the hill. We are depending now on a system that supplies us only with driblets; and to make the final push, we must muster without delay every man capable of rendering military service to his country. At present we are as foolish as the man who attempts to put out his burning house with a garden squirt, instead of tapping the 6-in. main alongside his fence. If we want to save our house from being burnt down, we must drop our respect for ancient shibboleths, and, as sensible men, take steps to enable Australia to do its full part, following the admirable example set on the hills of Gallipoli, and putting forward our utmost efforts to insure that victory shall rest on the banners of the Allies when a glorious and enduring peace shall be ours. 
After listening with great pleasure and considerable interest to the able speech of  Senator Lynch,  I have no desire to enter into the arguments for or against conscription, as the subject has been exhaustively treated already. My own opinion is that during a period of war every resource of the country ought to be at the disposal of the Government for purposes of defence. We all hope that before long the war will have ended successfully for the Allies, and then the various problems which interest the people of Australia will again come up for treatment. Indeed, some of those problems are so serious that it is high time we began to consider them. At the end of the war a large number of men will be suddenly thrown on our labour market, and we shall have on our hands considerable numbers of pensioners and others partially or wholly disabled. In fact, we shall have a new problem before us when the war is finished, and it is high time that we began to take stock of how this difficulty is to be met. I was very sorry to notice in the Treasurer's Budget speech a statement to the effect that the Government have no desire that the present high return, from Customs taxation shall continue. 
Order ! I would point out to the honorable senator that the paper to which the motion under consideration relates deals only with one subject, namely, the Army we have raised for service abroad. Honorable senators will have ample opportunity of discussing other matters when the Budget is under consideration. 
Now that the standing order has been suspended, the motion under consideration affords honorable senators an opportunity of dealing with one subject which is agitating the public mind at the present moment more than is any other. That subject is : Have the Government adopted the best method which could be adopted to enable us to successfully prosecute our share of the war? Yesterday I listened with a considerable amount of pleasure to the able and temperate speech of the Leader of the Opposition. I also followed closely the remarks of  Senator Ferricks;  and this afternoon I heard with much enjoyment a deliverance by  Senator Lynch,  in his usual fiery and emphatic style. To my mind, it is only fair that any honorable senator who feels very strongly upon this question should be afforded an opportunity of explaining the reasons which underlie his belief in compulsory military service. We are all very proud to share in the reflected glory of our sons and relatives who fought so valiantly in Gallipoli, and who may be trusted to acquit themselves equally well in any other part of the world in which they may be called upon to fight. But whilst we are prone to pat our chests and say " These are the kind of men we breed in our country," we ought to ask ourselves whether we are bearing our fair share of the burden and doing all that we can to assist our fighting Forces abroad. Since this disastrous war broke out, I have done my very best to make the voluntary recruiting system a success. Australians have a natural leaning towards that system. We detest conscription in any shape or form. I repeat that I have done- my best to make the voluntary system a success by offering my- self for service abroad. The Minister has long had my offer in his possession, though unfortunately I am over the military age ; but having offered myself as a vounteer, I felt perfectly free to go out and invite every man of eligible age to enlist. I have taken part in every recruiting campaign that has been initiated in South Australia since the inception of this momentous struggle. During the past month or so, two recruiting trains traversed that State, one going north and the other south. I travelled on both of those trains, and assisted in urging eligible young men to join the colours. South Australia, like most other portions of the Commonwealth, has done remarkably well in raising recruits for service at the front. But in the recent country campaign I was everywhere met with the inquiry, " Why do you not spend your time and efforts in the cities ? Why tour the rural areas in search of recruits?" Then when I visited the cities I was met with the cry, " The cities have done remarkably well in the matter of recruiting. Why do you not confine your appeal to the country?" 
They are both right and they are both wrong. But I do not intend to set country against city, or  vice versa.  I say that our best efforts should be put forward in the prosecution of this war, and that every eligible man should be called upon in his turn. There is no service which a man should regard as being higher than that of serving his country when it is in danger. Our voluntary system has not been a failure in the number of men recruited, but it has been a failure in the sense that our pluckiest have gone from among us whilst the others have stayed at home. 
It seems to me that there can be no logical argument adduced in favour of sending the plucky men abroad to fight the country's battles - 
Then let us take the cowards and put them in positions of responsibility in Australia, whilst we send our brave men out of the country to be killed. We can then proceed to raise a race of cowards in the 
Commonwealth. Is that what  Senator Henderson  desires? 
SenatorNEWLAND. - I have never yet met a soldier who was sent back because of cowardice, but I have met quite a number of men who have been returned to Australia because of physical defects, and who ought never to have been sent away. 
I am not saying that it does. Many soldiers have been returned to Australia because of physical disabilities which ought to have prevented them going abroad. The explanation is to be found in the fact that owing to the shortage of men we were bound to accept all who approached the military standard. I know of young lads who have gone to the front and who should never have been permitted to do so. Youths under seventeen years of age have enlisted - they have told the authorities that they were eighteen years old. Their action was a testimony to their pluck, and some of them have actually withstood the test. On the other hand, I know men considerably over the military age who have enlisted. I know that one man who departed with the first contingent was nearly sixty years of age. Unfortunately,he was killed early in the engagement connected with the landing of our forces in Gallipoli. Another man who is quite sixty years of age, and who probably told the military authorities that he was considerably younger, is to-day walking the streets of Adelaide in khaki. He cannot possibly stand the strain to which he will be subjected before his training is completed. I have no hesitation in saying that a system which permits of a condition of things such as I have outlined should be abandoned as early as possible. Much as I dislike the idea of compulsion, I believe that we should institute a system of recruiting under which all eligibles would have to go in their turn. If ever there was a time in the history of a nation when a fair system of compulsion could be introduced, it is the present time, seeing that there is a Labour Government in power in the Commonwealth. It does not matterwhat sort of compulsory measure may be submitted to Parliament, because we know that it will be bound to leave the Legislature in a form which will bear upon its pages the imprint of the Labour party. We may be sure that no measure will pass in this Parliament to-day that will not be as fair as it is possible for Parliament to make it. There is no need to fear that our industries will be interfered with. There is not the slightest reason why a trade union or any other organization should be interfered with. 
I tell my honorable friend again that no Bill can leave the Senate except in such form as we please. No measure will leave this chambercontaining anything objectionable to the industrial community. If the opposite political party were in power, we might be more timid about the introduction of legislation of this kind; but surely, with our own party in power, we cannot fear that any measure will be allowed to pass the Senate or the House of Representatives that would in any way be injurious to our industrial organizations? Conscription is objectionable to many members of industrial organizations because, I am afraid, they do not quite understand the meaning of the word. It has a nasty ring about it, and many do not know what it really means. 
I can tell the Minister that, unless the war be terminated very quickly, there is reason to believe that we shall know what it is. I am confident that if a vote weretaken of the people of Australia on thesubject, there could be no doubt as to what their verdict would be. 
 Senator Henderson  offers that objection now ; but if it were proposed to take areferendum on some other subject, the number of people who would understand it would not trouble himvery much. I have said before that if honorable senators asked the boyswho foughtat Anzacwhat system they believed in there would be no doubt as to what theiranswer would be. 
There are thousands of mothers in Australia who have given their only son for their country, and there are thousands of other mothers who have several sons and have not given one for the country. That is most unfair, and a system that permits that kind of thing cannot be defended here, or anywhere else. 
The honorable senator knows very well what I mean, and he knows that mothers have given their sons for the country. 
That is so; but every son who has gone away has just as truly been given to the country by his mother. The honorable senator knows, too, that the mothers who have given their sons are very sore at heart when they think of the mothers whose sons have not gone to the front. 
I am aware of that; and even in those cases the mothers have given their sons, and in many cases their hearts are breaking because of the loss of their sons. 
The mothers will have to give up their sons just the same under conscription. 
We can take far less pride in the fact that, under the existing system, the sons of many mothers are not going to the front at all. Apart from all questions of sentiment, the voluntary system is neither fair nor just, and it is not economic, whether viewed as a means of securing men, or regarded in the light of the future of the nation. Many married men having large families have gone away, and if they get killed the country must provide pensions for their wives and children. This is taking place every day, whilst the census cards have shown that 120,000 men in Australia have refused to go and fight for their country. If there isone man who, more than any other, ought to be conscripted, it is surely the man who has refused straight out to fight for his country when asked to do so. I do not think that such a man should receive sympathy or consideration from any section of the community.  Senator Ferricks  last night was very interesting in saying what the pioneers of this country had to do in order to secure political and  social freedom, and a decent wage. As the result of the work of th"ole pioneers, this country has become one of the best countries on the face of the earth for working men to live in. I do not say that it is as good as it might be made, or as we hope it will be in the near future, but we have reached a stage here when we are able to say that the working man has more liberty and better conditions than any other country on earth offers. Surely if that be so, these liberties which have cost so much to gain are worth fighting for. Under conscription the wealthy neighbours of the working men will be called upon to fight with him for the country. It is the boast of Labour men that a splendid response has been made by the members of industrial organizations. We' boast of the fact that the percentage of workers who have gone to the war is greater than that of any other class in the community. If that be so, then the workman who is not a unionist, and who is content to sit behind those who are members of unions, and are prepared to fight for their country, should also be sent to the front. There is no method by which this man can be sent to the front unless we alter the existing system of enlistment.  Senator Ferricks  told us of the hardships, difficulties, and disadvantages under which our forefathers lived in the older lands. The honorable senator knows only of those hardships by report, but I happen to know of them by personal experience. 
I did not know that my honorable friend had had personal experience of those difficulties and hardships. Everything that he said on that point was perfectly right. The conditions of the workers in older lands will not bear comparison with the conditions of workers in Australia. Deep down in every man's heart there is inherent a love for the land of his birth, and whether the young Australian be born of Irish, English, or Scotch parents, he has a higher regard for their country than for the countries of other men. That is a sentiment that we all like to encourage. I know of a spot in Scotland, near where I was born, where the people were simply ordered off the land, and the fertile glens and hills were depopulated, in order that the wealthy landlords might rear deer and grouse, and the German baron or the American multi-millionaire might later have the pleasure of  enjoying the slaughtering of the animals reared on those lands. Fortunately, the people were allowed to go back to those glens and hills after a time; but to-day they are again depopulated because the men who were there have gone to the war, and, unfortunately, the bulk of them have been killed, and will never return. If that land is worth fighting for, and if, under the conditions existing in the Old Country, men are prepared cheerfully to die for the country, whether under a voluntary system or under conscription, surely we in Australia, who have a better country to fight for, because of the greater liberties we enjoy, should take all the steps that are necessary to defend this Commonwealth which, without doubt, is one of the objectives of the German Hun, and one of the places on which he longs to set his foot and raise his standard. It is for every man in Australia who is saddled with responsibilities to see that the method adopted for sending our men to the front is the most economical and the one which will give the best results. I feel confident that if the question is viewed in this way, the result will be that a measure of compulsion will be introduced that will insure that every man will go to the front who ought to go there. We can be confident that the measures of the kind adopted will absolutely prevent any favoritism, and will make it impossible for the rich man to stay at home if the poor man has to go. That is a possibility under the existing system. I make no charges against the rich men, but it is now left to every man's own choice to go or to refrain from going. Those who have the necessary courage and love their country go, and those who are indifferent or cowardly stay at home. I am not urging compulsion upon the Government at the present time. I have sufficient faith in them to believe that when, in their opinion, the requirements of this country  and of the Old Country are so great that it becomes necessary for them to deal with enlistment in a different way, they will be prepared to do so. My object in speaking this afternoon is to let it be known exactly where I am in this matter. I have done all that I have been able to do for the existing system, and am prepared to continue to do all I can for it, but I believe that a system of compulsion for enlistment is the fairest and most effective system to enable this country to carry on the war. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Imove - 
That this Bill be now read a  second  time. 
The purpose of the measure is to amend section 4 of the War Precautions Act by inserting a new paragraph in sub-section 3 to the following effect: - (aa) require  that any  person approved  by the  Minister  shall have access  to  any such factory or  workshop at such times  as the  Minister either generally or  in any  particular case directs;  and. 
This is to deal with an anomaly created in the case of a factory the whole output of which has been taken over by the Commonwealth. Such a case could never occur in the United Kingdom, and it supplies an answer to those people who say that we have all the powers that we require under our existing Constitution. This is the position : In Victoria we have taken over the whole output of a factory, and in such a case there is no contract, so our conditions of contract do not apply. We asked the State Government to apply the conditions of their Factories Act as to wages and conditions of labour, but they informed us that as we had taken over the entire output of the factory the State law could not control the factory. Therefore we have, in this time of war, a set of circumstances under which we cannot apply our ordinary conditions of contract, because the whole output of a factory having been taken, there is no contract, and because it is a Federal matter, the State authorities have no control. This amendment is to give the Minister power to authorize an inspector to see that the proper conditions are observed. I trust there will be no delay, as the matter is urgent, and has been urgent for some time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Amendment of section 4). 
 Under section 31a provision is made for an inspection of all military contracts. Is it the intention of this amendment to give the Minister similar power in cases where the output of a factory has been taken over ? 
.- The amendment will give effect to the section referred to. It will not override it. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment. Standing and Sessional Orders suspended ; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
 I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
I hope honorable senators have been taking interest in the establishment of this fund, the purpose of which is to give those who have been unable to fight for their country an opportunity to fulfil their obligations to our brave troops by assisting soldiers to gain a permanent livelihood after the war, either on the land or in other occupations. It will apply not only to soldiers, but also to their dependants. The Bill creates a board of trustees to administer the repatriation fund, gives them a status in law, and lays down their duties. It also contains provision for the safeguarding of the fund. If there is one regrettable feature in connexion with the various patriotic funds, it  is that they have not Deen regulated by the laws of the States or of the" Commonwealth. It would have been better if, at the outset, these funds had been so provided for, because a lot of duplication, and probably a lot of waste, would then have been avoided. This fund is proposed to be a combined fund, in connexion with which the Commonwealth and the State Governments will make an appeal to the people of Australia. There are those who think that the duty of reestablishing our soldiers in occupations when they come back is one for the whole people. This is recognised by the fact that the Commonwealth Parliament will be asked to vote a sum of £250,000 towards the fund. That expenditure will have to be borne by the general taxpayers of this country, and it is probable that the State Premiers will also ask the Parliaments of the various States to supplement the fund, their contributions being borne by the taxpayers of the respective States. I believe, also, there are many wealthy people, and even those who are not wealthy, who would like to, and who will, contribute to this fund. Some have already done so. The Messrs. Baillieu, of Melbourne, contributed £25,000, a magnificent donation, and others have given in like manner. I remember  Mr. W.  L. Baillieu in the Melbourne Town Hall saying that many people could not go to the war, but they should have an opportunity, as others were suffering for them, of making such a contribution as would not mean merely the giving of what they could spare, but would entail some sacrifice. There is a noble sentiment in that utterance, and I believe the gentleman who made it has given practical expression of it. Six of the trustees were selected by the Federal Parliamentary War Committee, which represents both parties in the two Houses, and the other eight have been nominated by the Commonwealth Government, who tried to secure men wellknown in business and commercial circles, so as to give a guarantee to the people that the money would be wisely invested and spent, and at the same time to give each section of the community representation on the Board. The members of the Board have entered on their duties most enthusiastically, and I am glad to say that they have all willingly assented to the request of the Government that they should act. Preliminary meetings have been held, but no legal business can be transacted until this Bill is passed. I look foward with confidence to the fund amounting to a considerable sum, although so far it has scarcely been started. As soon as the Bill is passed, and the trustees are authorized to act, a secretary and a publicity agent will be appointed to push the appeal in every possible way. We look to the various State War Councils for assistance in their respective spheres, and also to the various recruiting agencies spread throughout different districts. Just as these bodies have given their time to induce recruits to volunteer, we believe that they will use their best endeavours to induce people to contribute funds for the benefit of the soldiers when they have returned. When the money is available and gifts can be made in kind as well as in money, the same organizations will be used to transmit the assistance to the soldiers. We wish under this fund to work on the local patriot. We want each district to feel that the men who have gone from it are its peculiar and particular charge. While the fund is national, the trustees will endeavour to apportion it, as largely as they can, to the districts from which, the soldiers have come, and in which the fund has been raised. Some districts, however, are rich in men and poor in money. Others have plenty of money, but have not given many recruits, and the advantage' of having a central fund with a board of trustees is that, where a great number of soldiers have to be provided for, and there is not a very wealthy community to provide for them, the trustees can equalize the fund so as to help them from the richer districts of the Commonwealth. To those who believe that no appeal should be made to the private benevolence of our citizens, but that the whole of the money should be raised by some Government agency, I would point out that there is a value in what is called the civic virtue of a community. There is a value in cultivating in the minds of our people a spirit of generosity and a recognition of our responsiblity to our brother men. This cannot be calculated in £ s. d., but that .the cold payment of taxation does not cultivate it is certain. We believe that appeals to private benevolence do cultivate it. There will be no charity-mongering in this scheme. No soldier will feel that he is accepting charity when he accepts assistance from the fund. It will not be handled in that way. There will bo another advantage in having the fund disbursed in the way proposed. A pension can be paid through a Government Department, because io that case hardandfast rules can be laid down, but no Government Department can conveniently handle the problem of the varying needs of the units who apply for assistance under this proposal. One man with a certain family and certain obligations may need assistance to go on the land. In that case we need, the human calculation as to how much assistance he should get. Another is unfitted to go on the land, but can start a small business or run a motor car for hire, and the trustees can advance him £50 or £100 to start in business for himself. A woman who has lost her husband may be helped to open a little business for herself; and it is impossible to lay down by regulation the lines on which this money is to be disbursed. It can be done only by means of the human element, with local committees with a knowledge of individual needs, and by giving the assistance, not as a charity, but as a right. I would ask those who believe that all this work should be done through a Government Department to contemplate the spectacle of a Department dealing with cases such as I have described. It could lead only to endless friction and dissatisfaction. Even in State-managed pension schemes, where the lines are clear cut, injustice and harshness in administration are frequently complained of. How much more so would this be the case where such varying sets of circumstances have to be met? The clauses of the Bill are almost entirely machinery. 
Sub-clause 5 of clause 4 meets the case. Under clause 6 the question of disposing of the securities arises. Paragraph  b  provides that the trustees shall be charged with the duty of investing in  securites  of the Commonwealth or a State, or on fixed deposit or in current account in the , Commonwealth Bank, such part of the fund as is not immediately required for the purposes for which the fund has been established. This question has given me some concern, because when the fund was being established I placed myself in communi cation first with the Commonwealth Bank," the Governor of which offered to undertake the care of any sums of money, and give 3 per cent, interest on all current accounts in his bank, and to transmit money from one branch to another or one State to another free of exchange. The other banks  throughout  the Commonwealth afterwards, practically all agreed to do the same, and it may seem that we are not dealing quite fairly with them in stipulating that the accounts shall be kept only in the Commonwealth Bank. The difficulty is that this is a national fund, and the head-quarters will be in Melbourne. If we had to draw on a number of separate current accounts all over the Commonwealth, in various banks, we might have a most complicated system of bookkeeping, and so I endeavoured to arrange that the working account of the fund should be in the Commonwealth Bank only. But I feel the force of the objection that we should not cut the other banks out of any connexion with the fund other than being merely collectors of the money. I have no desire to do so, especially as they have promised to give us 3 per cent, on current accounts, and transmit money free of exchange, and I shall be, therefore, quite prepared to accept an amendment, if one can be framed, allowing the working account to be in the Commonwealth Bank, but not excluding the other banks from holding money with the consent of the trustees on  fixed  deposit in their various branches. It has been pointed out to me that the difficulty I thought I saw could be obviated by the very simple arrangement which the private banks now have, under which all their branches, at stated intervals, send to headquarters statements showing all the balances in their charge. It could be arranged that all the balances of this fund should be sent, every week, to the head-quarters of the bank, which could inform the secretary of the fund accordingly. One consideration which would influence me to agree to bring the private banks into the scheme is that, whereas the Commonwealth Bank has not branches in all parts of Australia, there is a branch of some bank almost everywhere in the Commonwealth, and we could transmit money to almost any part by utilizing the private banks as agents of the Commonwealth Bank. Members of Parliament can do a great deal to make the appeal for this fund widely known, to push it publicly, and make it a great success. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee: 

Clause 1- 
This Act may be cited as the Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Fund Act 1916. 
It appears to me that the title of this Bill is susceptible of improvement. The word " repatriation," as we know, signifies a process of restoration to one's native country. That is its purely dictionary meaning. But seeing that the central idea of this Bill is to acknowledge the service which our soldiers have rendered to Australia, the term does not seem to be strictly applicable to it. In my judgment the object of the measure is to place on record our gratitude to the members of our Forces who have fought for the 'Empire. Its title, therefore, might be improved by substituting the word"gratitude" for "repatriation." 
It is often asked, "What is in a name?" But in my opinion there is a good deal in it. I know that one Act of this Parliament, by reasonof its unfortunate title, caused Australiato occupy avery invidious position in theeyes of the world . I refer to the Immigration Restriction Act. For years this Statute was used for the purposeof pointing to Australia as the one country which did not desire immigration. To my mind itis advisable that we should select some more suitable name for this Bill. The term " repatriation " might beapplied with equal force to anyperson who had left Australiaupon a mission much less honorable than that in which our troops have been engaged, and who was returning to this country. Before we pass this measure something should be done to make the title more consistent with the intention of Parliament. I would suggest that the consideration of its title should be postponed for the present. 
I hope that the suggestion of  Senator Lynch  willnot be agreed to. I would point out that an appeal has been launched for the fund under this particular title, and it would cause endless confusion if an alteration were made in it now. At the present time it is somewhat difficult to keep track of all the funds that are in existence, and if we were to coin still another name for one of these funds it would necessitate a fresh appeal being made to the public, and would involve us in a good deal of explanation. I would remind  Senator Lynch  that a considerable sum has already been contributed to the " Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Fund " under that name. 
No. It is not the first time that this particular title has been used in connexion with a similar fund. After the South African war the British Government lent South Africa £25,000,000 for the purpose of reinstating the Boer farmers on their farms. That was called the " repatriation grant." 
Technically speaking, I admit that the term " repatriation" is not correct. "Repatriation" implies arestoration of nationality, and out Australian soldiers have not lost their nationality. But whilst that is so, I venture to say that in the present instance the word is clearly understood to mean the re-establishment of our troopsin civil life. Asthe fund has already been launched, and as considerable subscriptions have been made to it in all the States, it would be most unwise to change its title now. 
I entirely agree with the remarks of  Senator Lynch  that an unfortunate choice has been made in applying the term " repatriation " to this Bill. But from what the Minister has said, the choice was not that of the Government. It appearsthat a fund has been established known as the "Repatriation Fund," and this Bill does not propose to go further than to effectively safeguard the proper disposal of that fund. If at this stage we substitute for the word " repatriation," some more appropriate expression, it may suit our aesthetic taste, but it will certainly lead to considerable confusion in the mind of thecommunity. 
But it will be difficult to make it known. To-day there are in existence regulations of the greatest importance under the War Precautions Act, and yet those regulations are very little known indeed. Only yesterday and  to-day the Minister has been asked certain questions with a view to causing him to quote certain regulations the provisions of which ought to be better known. As the Minister has pointed out, there are quite a number of patriotic funds in existence at the present time. These include funds of a general character, of a national character, and of a State character. If the term "repatriation" as applied to this fund were a new term which was being introduced for the first time in this Bill I should be found supporting the contention of  Senator Lynch.  But seeing that there is already in existence a soldiers' repatriation fund, it is necessary that we should provide means by which that fund shall be administered in order that effect may be given to the wishes of its contributors. 
Whatever differences of opinion may exist in respect of the name that has been applied to this fund, it would be a serious mistake to alter it at the present juncture. As a member of the War Council of this State, I have had a fair amount of experience in connexion with most of the patriotic funds in existence, and I say that much confusion exists in the minds of contributors as to the objects for which some of those funds have been established, and as to how they are to be allocated. But whilst that is undoubtedly the case, I venture to say that there is scarcely any person in Australia who does not know the reason why the soldiers' repatriation fund was called into existence. It is a fund which is primarily intended to assist our returned discharged soldiers. Arrangements have been completed between the Commonwealth and State Governments for settling suitable discharged soldiers upon the lands of this country, and for assisting them from this fund during their initial difficulties there. With this end in view they will be granted non-interest bearing loans. 
Until they have tided over their difficulties. 
I do not know. The fund will also be utilized to assist other returned soldiers in other spheres of activity. Already the public have been informed that the Commonwealth intends to donate the sum of £250,000 to the fund. To now alter the name of the fund would lead to endless confusion ; and, to be consistent, if we alter the title of the Bill, we must alter the name of the fund. 
It would be a very serious mistake to alter the title of the Bill in the  way proposed. Parliament, of course, is supreme, and could alter the name of the fund ; but it would not be a wise thing , to do. The fund has already been launched, the public are aware of its existence under a certain name and are subscribing to it, and returned discharged soldiers know exactly what the object of the fund is. In common with every other member of the Committee, I hope and believe that this fund will prove to be the most substantial that has ever been raised in Australia. 
I do not admit that a mistake has been made. The Government have contributed £250,000 to the fund, and the public are contributing to it. For the substantial reasons advanced by the Minister, and those also advanced by  Senator Keating,  I trust that honorable senators will not agree to any alteration of the title. 
In my opinion, the word " repatriation " in the title of this Bill is entirely out of place. The title ought to be " The Australian Soldiers' Loan Fund Act." 
I understand that it is constituted of moneys to be given, or loaned, for the assistance of returned soldiers. 
As a matter of fact, the £250,000 proposed to be contributed to the fund by the Commonwealth Government has not yet been voted by Parliament. The amounts proposed to be voted by the State Parliaments to the fund have not yet been passed. With the exception of a few substantial donations, the fund is at present in its infancy. There is no word in this Bill, from first to last, which would lead any one to suppose that it is intended to lend this money to returned soldiers. I was under the impression, when I first read the Bill, that the intention was to give a donation to a returned soldier to enable him to recommence civil life. There does not appear to be any provision in this Bill for the repayment of advances from the fund. In all the circumstances, the word " repatriation " is entirely out of place in the title of the Bill, and I therefore move - 
That the word "Repatriation " be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the word  " Loan." 
This is a machinery Bill for the administration of a certain fund which has already been created by the public under the title of " The Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Fund." If we alter the title, as proposed by  Senator Grant,  we shall be passing a Bill to operate a fund that does not exist. A fund is in existence at the present time under a certain name, and the Government in this measure are asking Parliament to provide machinery for its operation. 
I agree with  Senator Grant  and disagree with  Senator Shannon  on this question, for the reason that so far as it is known to Parliament the fund does not exist, and this Bill brings it into existence in supplying the machinery for the working of the fund. Surely in the circumstances we can call the fund by what name we please. In South Australia we have an Act known as the " Advances for Workers' Homes Act," under which advances are made to workers to assist them in building their homes. Provision is made in that measure for the repayment of amounts advanced. There is nothing in this Bill to say whether the moneys of the fund are to be loaned or given. If this is to be a Loan Bill, then we ought to say so. We should adopt a title which will cover the provisions of the Bill. By the unfortunate use of the word " repatriation " the moneys of the fund might be restricted to defraying the expenses of bringing soldiers back to Australia from Turkey or from other countries in which they may have been imprisoned. 
That is so; but the regulations must be in harmony with the spirit of the Bill, the object of which is entirely different from what is suggested by the title. The regulations would have to specify whether the money is advanced as a gift or as a loan.  Senator Shannon  will remember another South Australian measure known as the "Advances to Settlers Act." That measure sets out in its title what its purpose is, but here the title is foreign to the purpose of the Bill. I hope that the Committee will select some title for the measure which will enable the public to know what its object is. 
It provides machinery for dealing with a fund only the nucleus of which at present exists, and which was initiated before the legislative machinery to deal with it was prepared. 
The honorable senator means to suggest that if the word " repatriation " is not used in the title we shall fail in this Bill to recognise the money that has already been contributed. But I point out that the money has been contributed, not for the purpose of the repatriation of soldiers, but in order to assist soldiers in this country. The word "repatriation" may have been used in South Africa, but it had a literal meaning there, because people there had been dispossessed, and were being brought back and reinstated. In the opinion of ninety-nine people out of every hundred in the Commonwealth " repatriation " will not mean assistance to soldiers who are already here. We need a title for the Bill which will give the public some idea as to what its purpose is. 
I cannot support  Senator Grant's  amendment. I do not see any mention in the Bill of the lending of money to soldiers, and the substitution of the word " loan " for the word " repatriation" in the title would only make the position worse than it is at the present time. I do not approve of the use of the word " repatriation." I entirely agree with  Senator Lynch  that as used in this Bill it is misleading. The figures submitted by the Minister of Defence show that since the outbreak of the war, about 251,000 men have responded to the call of the Empire. A number of those, I am sorry to say, are lying on the field of honour. We must not, by this Bill, imply that those who have survived the grim ordeal of war shall have to be again initiated into all the privileges of citizenship. That is what the word " repatriation " means. It has been adopted probably because such a word was used in connexion with the Boer War, and, as  Senator Senior  and  Senator Lynch  have indicated, there was probably justification for its use, but I am sure that the Government did not intend that that should be the case now. These men have volunteered their lives as a holocaust on the altar of the world's liberty, and some will come back maimed and unable again to engage in the callings they were following prior to the Empire's call. The object of this Bill is to assist them in entering upon some occupation which they can follow, and, in my opinion, the title should be altered by striking out the word " repatriation " and inserting the word " recognition." 
I would accept the word "assistance" if the word "recognition ' ' were not acceptable to the Committee. The returned soldier does not owe us anything, but on the contrary we owe him everything. I do not think there is much in the objection by the Minister that if an amendment of the title were made it might lead to confusion, because certain generous citizens have initiated the fund. If an alteration were made the people who are connected with the various local funds would readily adopt the new term. 
.- I cannot agree to the proposal to alter the name of the fund, because it has been published throughout the Commonwealth, and it is known as the " Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Fund." Considerable contributions have been made in the name of that fund. It is astonishing what small matters sometimes engage great minds. At present we have a division of opinion concerning the dame of a fund, but no difference of opinion concerning the Bill itself. 
I am quite sure that the people quite understand what is meant by the term. The duty of the trustees will be to assist returned soldiers, and replace .them in a condition whereby they may be able to earn their living either upon the land or in some other avocation. Owing unhappily to the condition in which they will return, many of them will lose the opportunity of resuming their former occupations, and it will be the duty of the trustees to assist them to earn a living in some other way. A large amount of money has been subscribed towards the fund under its existing name, and I shall vote for its retention in the Bill. 
I agree with some of the previous speakers that the word " repatriation " is not the best that could have been found; but I should like to point out that this scheme has been advertised throughout Australia as the " repatriation scheme," and at every meeting which I addressed in Western Australia during the recess I referred to it in that way. A great many residents in every part of that State said they were pleased to hear that such a scheme had been originated by the Federal Government, and when the machinery was perfected they would be prepared to pay in, either of money or kind. In the Bill there is no mention of loans to soldiers, and I assume, therefore, that if  Senator Grant's  amendment were carried, it would not be in conformity with the title. It is. the intention of the Government and the War Council, I believe, to ask the general public to contribute, not only in money, but in kind, including stock or implements; so, if a returned soldier required a certain implement to work his farm, the Board could not let him have it, because, .under the altered title of the fund, assuming the amendment were carried,, they would be compelled to lend it to him. We must not lose sight of the fact, also, that this great struggle is not nearly ended yet. Before the conclusion of the war we may have to say to the Old Country - "We are a young and undeveloped" land, and we cannot afford to send men away from our primary industries. It would pay us better, seeing that you are a country with an excess of population, to have recruiting agents in Great Britain or in Russia recruiting certain numbers of men to provide for reinforcements for our troops. Australia will pay them their wages, also the cost of training, and after the war will bring them to Australia and place them on the soil in the same position as the men who have left Australia to fight for their own country." There is a probability that we may be in that position before the war is over, and, that being so, " repatriation " will be the correct word to apply to this Bill. 
From the tone of the debate, it appears that the proposed amendment would not meet with the approval of the Committee. Therefore', I ask leave to withdraw it. 
Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
Amendment (by  Senator Needham)  proposed - 
That the word  "Repatriation"  be left out, and the word "  Recognition"  inserted. 
I appeal to  Senator Needham  not to press his amendment, because if it were carried I should have to drop the Bill, as there is no such fund in existence. We would have to appeal to each donor, asking him. if he would be prepared to agree to the name of the fund being changed. 
The Bill will have no effect if the name is changed, as there will be no such fund in existence. The fund is not named by the Bill - the measure only provides machinery for its control. 
.- Whilst I do not like the word " repatriation," in view of the statement by the Minister of Defence that the amendment would imperil the Bill, I ask leave to withdraw it. 
Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
The Minister has practically told the Committee that it must agree to the Bill, the whole Bill, and nothing but the Bill. 
What Parliament and the people want is to do for the soldiers something more than for anybody else, but repatriation might be offered to the humblest individual not a soldier, and therefore the title does not expressour meaning. It should be "Australian Soldiers' Recognition" or "Recognisance Fund." If we want the label to correspond with the contents of the tin, we must alter the label radically. The Minister has already admitted that the present title is inappropriate. An appeal to subscribe to a soldiers' repatriation fund will not move anybody, but an appeal to subscribe to a soldiers' recompense fund might well do so. 
We can change the title of the Bill, and, to give time to devise a better term, I move - 
That the clause be postponed. 
Motion negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 2 and 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Trustees). 
Are the trustees appointed for a fixed term? 
How are they to be removed from their positions? 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 5 agreed to. 
Clause 6 - 
The trustees shall be charged with the duties of - 
investing in securities of the Commonwealth or a State, or on fixed deposit or in current account in the Commonwealth Bank, such part of the Fund as is not immediately required for the purposes for which. the Fund has been established. . . 
I move - 
That after the word " deposit " the following words be inserted: - "in any bank incorporated or carrying on business in the Commonwealth." 
Yes; they are incorporated banks. The amendment will allow fund moneys to be placed only on fixed deposit in banks other than the Commonwealth Bank. The trustees will be able to have their working accounts only at the Commonwealth Bank or its branches. 
Moneys are to be allocated to the different States, and it is possible that not only the State War Councils, but the District Committees, will be intrusted with their distribution. 
I think we should be acting wisely if we allowed the Savings Banks to be utilized for the purposes outlined in the Bill. Suppose, for example, that a soldier were settled on land at Renmark. He would be a long distance removed from the central council, and he might desire to pay into the local Savings Bank a sum in part payment of his loan. 
Savings Banks are not mentioned in the Bill, and for that reason, I take it, are practically excluded. 
Progress reported. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.28 to 8 p.m. 

I move - 
That, in the opinion of the Senate, no further sums of money should be placed on the Estimates for advertising the Commonwealth in the United States of America. 
This motion has been on the notice-paper for some time, and I am glad tobe afforded an opportunity of speaking in support of it. I have observed in certain newspapers - mainly newspapers published in Great Britain - quite a number of advertisements relating to the Commonwealth and its resources, which stress the great opportunities which are offered here to intending settlers. Most of those advertisements were of a grossly misleading character, but whether they were con certed by private persons or by Commonwealth officials I do not know. I have -not seen the last advertisements that were inserted in the American newspapers, but, in my opinion, no necessity exists for spending any further money in this direction. I am aware that on the last occasion some £5,000 was spent under this heading. I am glad to know that there is no specific item on the present Estimates relating to expenditure for advertising our resources in the United States of America. There is, however, an item of £5,000 for " advertising the resources of the Commonwealth," and if it is intended to spend this money in the direction I have indicated, the position ought not to be tolerated. The advertisement which Australia has recently gained by reason of the war renders the payment of any money for advertising our resources quite unnecessary. I hope, therefore, that this motion will be carried, and that it will be regarded as an instruction to the Government not to spend any more money under this heading. 
Motion (by  Senator Gardiner)  negatived - 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
When it is proposed not to spend any more money in advertising the Commonwealth in the United States, I must raise my voice in protest. I feel that at the present time the resources of this country cannot be made too widely known. Especially is this the case in English-speaking communities, and if we were influenced by no other consideration than a desire to cultivate a brotherly feeling between Australia and the great Republic of the West, that consideration alone would be a sufficiently strong reason why we should expend some money in advertising there. I do not knowwhat  Senator Grant  has in his mind, but I do know that when the visit of the American fleet was first projected, not a single voice here was raised in opposition to it. We were all anxious to get that fleet into our waters, and the central purpose we had in view was the cultivation of a closer friendship between this " giant young Commonwealth of the south," as ex-President Roosevelt described it, and America. I do not suggest that we should appeal to American sentiment on any ground other than that of mutual good fellowship. I believe that if this country were in danger to-morrow, America would come to its assistance - that she would not allow Australia to go down and be deprived of the freedom it enjoys today without some very effective protest. 
It would indicate our desire to cultivate a closer friendship with America. If we are so low in spirit and pocket as to feel the expenditure of 10s. per week in American advertisements, it is the flimsiest of reasons upon which to propose the discontinuance of that expenditure. The Englishspeaking races of the world, in view of what is happening to-day and of the ominous outlook in the immediate future, cannot cultivate too close friendships with each other. Any attempt to induce Australia to take up an isolated position would, in my judgment, be a foolhardy one. I hope that the common sense of honorable senators will allow the ordinary policy to be pursued, so that we may continue to make known to the uttermost, the resources of this Commonwealth. If Americans come here what harm will be done? Those who know Americans as I do, know that we shall benefit if we can induce them to come here as the result of advertising our resources. 
 Senator Barker  may speak from the limited knowledge which he possesses, and as one who does not know the extent to which Australia has benefited by the introduction of American brains and American enterprise. Take the case of the mining industry in Tasmania. Is not that in a flourishing condition by reason of the superior judgment and enterprise which has been brought to bear by Americans? This country is possessed of vast resources which must remain undeveloped if we adopt the policy of that foolish person of old, who buried his talents in the ground. We shall be very shortsighted in our day and generation if we are unable to perceive the advantage we may gain from the application to the development of our resources of the experience of men in other lands. We have gained materially in the matter of irrigation in this country by making use of the experience of America where it is practised on a large scale. We have in this way been able to make fertile and fructifying vast areas of arid plains which were previously unproductive. What was  Mr. Mead  brought here for? 
It is quite true that he has gone back to America, but he laid here the foundations of a system from which great benefit will yet be derived by this country.  Senator Grant  would have us allow our lands to remain idle and unproductive, when, by making use of the experience of a man like  Mr. Mead,  we might develop them. America sent us a man like  Dr. Peters  to assist us to solve problems presented by our mining industry, which, but for the knowledge such men are able to apply to them, might remain unsolved. I am astonished that  Senator Grant  should make such a proposal seriously and expect the Senate to indorse it. We cannot afford to hide the resources of this country. If it is our desire to advance it, we can only do so by making its resources known, and that cannot be done without the expenditure of money. At this juncture, I stress particularly the necessity incumbent upon the English-speaking nations of the world to draw more closely together rather than to continue in isolated existence, because of the unpromising outlook for the future. We have the highest standard of civilization in Australia to-day. We have a system of government that is unknown in the rest of the world. We possess the means to fashion as best we can our own destiny, and, possessing that inestimable power, we require the active co-operation of all English-speaking people whose experience may be of value to us. A proposal of this kind, which means practically to cut the painter, in a social sense, with other English-speaking communities in the world, is a most mistaken one. I oppose it. 
I am pleased to learn that it is the almost universal opinion of members of this Chamber that the foolish course proposed by  Senator Grant  should not be taken. 
I have listened with interest to the passionate appeal made to the Senate by  Senator Lynch  to vote against  Senator 
Grant's motion. I agree with, a great deal that the honorable senator said. It is extremely desirable that the Englishspeaking communities of the world should be drawn more closely together. No one would be more ready than I to spend even a much larger sum on -advertising in the United States than has already been spent by the Commonwealth if conditions were as they ought to be. I find that in 1914-15, the sum of £5,000 was appropriated for this purpose, and £5y449 was spent. But this year there is no sum down on the Estimates for advertising the resources of the Commonwealth in the United States. 
Then, apparently, the Government are exactly of the same opinion as  Senator Grant.  We all know that Australia is a country of great undeveloped wealth. But the mischief is that we have little or no control over that wealth. I take the lands of Australia and I ask whether we can offer the lands of this country to people coming from America. Can we issue flamboyant advertisements telling the people of the United States that if they come here they will get huge areas of virgin soil for next to nothing ? We may tell them that, but if we do we shall be telling a falsehood. My one .and only reason for objecting to the expenditure of money for this purpose is that if we told the people of America such tales they would not be true. 
I say that my only objection to the spending of money for this purpose is that if we tell the people of America about our resources, and invite them to come here and share them, we shall be telling them something that is not true or is not wholly true. If the lands of Australia were available to the people of America when they came here, I should say by all means spend not only £5,000, but £25,000 or £100,000 upon advertising the fact. The sooner we can people this continent the better it will be for Australia,, for the British Empire, and for humanity generally.  Senator Lynch  talked of our fine system of government, but we know as well as he does that Australia is the best -governed country in the world, and is the freest of all countries. Yet, with all our good government and all the intelligence that has gone to build up our system, we had not the common horse-sense to keep the lands of Australia in our own hands. I have said here a hundred times before, and if I live long enough and remain a member of the Senate, and something is not done, I shall say it a hundred times again, that there is a condition of land monopoly in Australia that has no parallel in the world.. It is a standing disgrace to the people of Australia, and more especially to the Labour party, who hold the reins of government, that this condition of affairs should be allowed to last for a single moment longer than is sufficient  to break it up. I have no intention to labour that question now. We nave begun in a tentative fashion to tickle the hide of this huge rhinoceros by a mosquito-like operation. 
I ask the honorable senator whether he considers that a discussion on the question of land taxation is permissible on this motion. 
The honorable senator will see that I allowed him to make a lengthy reference to land monopoly, but to discuss this motion in the same way as if it were a specific motion relating to land taxation would clearly be an abuse of the Standing Orders. 
The  honorable  senator is not entitled to reflect upon the action of the Senate in passing the Standing Orders, unless he is prepared to mora for their amendment. I point out .to Mm .that he missed an opportunity this afternoon to go over the whole gamut of the question he now desires to discuss. 
I do not rule against that, hut I point out to the honorable senator that he has been allowed to make an extended reference to the lands of Australia and to what he believes to be land monopoly, but to go into a discussion of the various remedies which might be suggested for that state of things would clearly be an abuse of the ordinary procedure of the Senate. 
I am going, to ask the Senate to treat this motion seriously, and I ask  Senator Grant  to withdraw it. The 
Government have no intention of placing on the Estimates any sum of money to advertise Australia anywhere at the present time. This motion was placed on the notice-paper twelve months ago, and at that time there appeared on the Estimates a sum of money that had been expended in advertising Australia.  The  matter is too serious for the Senate to pass'. A bald resolution standing by itself could easily be misinterpreted as an expression of illfeeling towards America, and I will ask  Senator Grant  to avoid a vote upon it. 
I listened with attention to the outburst by  Senator Lynch,  and I say distinctly and definitely that the motion is not directed against the United States of America in a spirit of animosity at all. I believe there is no necessity whatever for the expenditure of money in that country to advertise the resources of Australia. I agree with the remarks made by  Senator Stewart  that until such time as the lands are opened for settlement it would be most unfair to people who contemplate coming here to misrepresent the position. With regard to the request made by  Senator Gardiner,  I would rather that the motion went to the vote, and were carried unanimously, but I have no desire to conflict with the Government in this matter. I merely remind  Senator Lynch  that when I placed this notice of motion on the business-paper there was a sum of £5,000 on the Estimates for this purpose. The Government have not placed any money on the Estimates for this year, and, consequently, they would have no right to expend money in this direction. I have no hesitation in complying with the request of the Minister to withdraw the motion on the understanding that no money will be expended in advertising the resources of Australia in the United States of America without the consent of the Senate. 
Motion, by leave, withdrawn. 
I would like to know if the Government are prepared to accept the suggestion that the Savings Banks be also included, because of their utility in connexion with' this matter. There is a large number of these banks all over Australia. Very often a soldier may not be located near to a branch of the other banks, so that it would be a convenience if payments could be made through the Savings Banks. Those who have had experience of State legislation know it .is necessary to provide means by which those who are indebted to the State may pay at the township near which they reside. 
.- Since the honorable senator raised this point I have looked into the matter, and find that the Commonwealth Bank includes the Commonwealth Savings Banks' branches which are established at all the post-offices. With regard to the State Savings Banks, we cannot impose this duty upon them, but we have written .to the Premiers of each State asking of they will consult the trustees of those banks to see if those institutions will take up the same position as the other Associated Banks have done. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 7 - 
The sums or property from time to time allocated by the trustees to a State War Council shall be hold by the State War Council upon the trusts following, namely: - 
To apply such sums or property (subject to such conditions as the Governor-General, on the recommendation of the trustees, from time to time prescribes, and after payment of all proper expenses of and incidental to the receipt and expenditure by the Council of the sums or property allocated to it for such purposes, being purposes for the relief assistance and benefit of Australian soldiers and of their dependants, and in such manner as the Council in its discretion thinks fit. 
We have not had a statement yet from the representative of the Government to indicate whether the payment under this clause is to be by way of loan or to be regarded as a direct gift. 
The scheme was drawn up at a meeting of the Federal War Committee, and was referred to a conference of the Federal and State Governments and representatives of the Federal War Committee, which passed a resolution stating that in order to provide for the subsidiary requirements of returned soldiers, the citizens should be asked to subscribe in cash or kind to a special repatriation fund to be vested by Act of the Commonwealth Parliament in a body of trustees, the fund to be distributed subject to conditions to be prescribed by the Federal Parliamentary War Committee, and advances from it to be made to returned soldiers, or their dependants, for maintenance or by way of general assistance to returned soldiers and their families as distinct from ameliorative aid, such advances to be loans without interest. When the question arose whether we should put that in the Bill, it was pointed out that some things could not be offered by way of loan, especially gifts in kind. It was therefore decided not to stipulate in the Bill whether it should be by loan or gift, bub to deal with the question by regulation. The regulations will have to conform, as far as practicable, to the resolution of the Conference, because that is practically the agreement on which the fund is based. 
When the Bill is passed, it will not be possible to go behind it to a resolution of the Conference. 
That will be legislation by regulation. 
Why not put in " either by loan or gift " ? If it is left to regulation, the administration of the fund will be liable to change with every change of Government. 
If the Minister is satisfied that the clause will not tie the trustees down, I am also. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 8 and 9, and title agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended; report adopted. 
.- I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
Its object is to suspend, during the war and for six months after, the operation of section 87a of the Patents Act, which provides that, if the High Court or Supreme Court is satisfied that a patented article or process is manufactured or carried on exclusively or mainly outside the Commonwealth, it shall, failing satisfactory reasons from the patentee, make an order declaring that the article or process is not manufactured or carried on to an adequate extent in the Commonwealth. The reason for the suspension of that provision is that, during the war, a patentee may be prevented from operating his patent owing to lack of material or other causes. That has happened already in certain cases, and we do not want the holders to find their patents voided because of causes outside their control. The Bill will prevent what might otherwise be an injustice. 
Section 87a was put in the amending Act of 1909 as what was described in this Chamber at the time as a " measure of protection." It provides that where a patent is not worked to an adequate extent in the Commonwealth, it may be voided. I take it that, owing tothe dislocation of trade, and the difficulties with which many patentees would be faced in trying to give effect to the underlying principle of that section, the Government regard it as unfair to require them to do so during the period of the war. I suppose the Government find it difficult, or invidious, to give particular instances, and having regard to all the circumstances, we are not being asked to do too much in suspending the provision, so long as that suspension is only for the period specified. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Suspension of the Patents Act 1903-1909). 
I would suggest that in the ultimate print of this Bill it would be advisable to insert a marginal note showing that the suspension of section 87a of the principal Act is merely of a temporary character. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
In moving - 
That this Bill be now read a second time, 
I wish to say that it is intended to constitute an addition to the War Census Act 1915. In the return of the cards which were sent out under the war census, certain difficulties have presented themselves in connecting the statements made on those cards with the writers. The Bill therefore provides that a returned card containing certain statements shall be deemed to have been filled in by the person who is presumed to have signed it, in the absence of proof to the contrary. On the other hand, the statement of the Statistician that no card has been returned to him by a person to whom a card was sent will be regarded as proof that it has not been filled in by the individual concerned unless he can establish the contrary. 
Then the simple explanation of the individual will exempt him from responsibility, and the filling in of the card will avoid a prosecution. Honorable senators must see that it would be impossible to initiate proceedings against persons who have not complied with the law if they merely had to affirm that they had returned their cards. The position is difficult, I admit, and renders it necessary for an accused person to prove his innocence. But in that respect it merely follows the lines which have been laid down in connexion with our Customs legislation. 
If he made a statement on oath to the effect that he had posted his card, his statement would be accepted as proof that he had done so. In view of the difficulty which exists in enforcing legislation which was enacted last year, a Bill of this description is necessary. I can assure honorable senators that there is no intention on the part of the Government to use it for the purpose of persecuting anybody. 
I perceive considerable danger in this Bill, which provides that the statement of the Statistician to the effect that any individual to whom a census card was forwarded has not returned that card, is to be regarded as proof that an offence has been committed. 
What evidence can a man bring forward to prove that he has posted a letter? 
Will that be accepted as evidence ? 
If a man whose card had not been received by the Statistician refused to fill in another card, the position would be entirely different. 
-Since my honorable friend became a War Lord, he has developed into quite a defender of the Government. I would invite the attention of honorable senators to the far-reaching effects of this proposal. There are infinite possibilities of War Census cards having been miscarried through the post. Let me mention a case to illustrate my point. Only last week I discovered in my letterbox at Parliament House, Adelaide, a communication from a person at Lameroo dated 1912. Where that letter had been in the interim, I cannot say. 
The postmark corresponded with the date inside the letter. I repeat that if a man is unwilling to fill in his War Census card when requested to do so, he may fairly be deemed to be guilty of an offence; but I do not think that it would be right to penalize him because he is unable to prove something which it is admittedly difficult to prove. 
As the Vice-President of the Executive Council has remarked, this form of legislation is not novel. It was first introduced into our Customs Act during the first session of the first Commonwealth Parliament. It was pointed out then that a Department labours under considerable difficulty in the administration of an Act if it is called upon to prove certain offences against that Act. It was only after much misgiving on the part of some honorable senators that that legislation was agreed to. But experience has shown , that no great hardship has resulted from it. We are now asked to amend the War Census Act of last session. That Act provides that certain persons shall furnish certain returns. Forms were sent out to them through the post - forms which they were requested to fill in and return. Failure to do so was constituted an offence against the Act. Now  Senator Senior  thinks that some difficulty might be experienced by an accused person in establishing his innocence. Consequently he contends that where an individual has failed to furnish a return he should be asked to fill in a second card, and only if he refuses to do so should he be deemed to have committed an offence. If we adopted that method of reasoning, we should be practically inviting every person in the community to ignore the provisions of all our legislative enactments. Arewe to say that a man shall not be held to have offended against the Act until he has been interviewed by some one and asked to perform a duty which he ought to have performed in common with his fellow citizens? 
If he has not performed his duty under the Act, why should he be treated differently from those who flagrantly fail to perform that duty? I think that the provision objected to will work no hardship. A circular or form is sent to X. In the ordinary course of post he should receive it. Every Court in the land presumes as a matter of law that if an article is put into the post addressed to X with the appropriate postage upon it it will be received by him in due course. The posting of articles is a matter of frequent proof in our different Courts. An individual comes forward and says that he posted an article addressed to X at such a number in such a street on a certain date, and put the proper postage on it. 
That is so, and, as a matter of actual practice in every lawyer's office and in many other offices, the clerk who posts letters, or the principal himself if he posts a letter, writes in the stamp-book the address on the letter, the date, the postage placed upon the letter, and his initials, so that years afterwards the posting of a particular letter can be proved in any Court. 
I do not think that would occur very frequently. 
That is so ; but I am explaining how the Courts accept proof of the postage of a letter. It is not required that a man shall go into Court with his stamp-book and show that a clerk signing himself C. E., posted a letter addressed to Jones on a certain date. But evidence of the posting of a letter in the ordinary way is accepted as proof that the person to whom it was addressed received it. If a witness gave evidence that he posted a letter addressed to  Senator Senior,  Melbourne, and affixed the proper postage to it, any Court, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, would assume that the honorable senator received the letter in due course. 
The honorable senator might deny that he received the letter, and there being a conflict of evidence on the point, it would be for the Court to say what its decision as to the fact should be. All that the first paragraph of the proposed new section 17b proposes is that where a person who is included amongst those who should make a return under the War Census Act is prosecuted for not having made the return, and it is proved that notice was sent to him, and that no return was received from him, it shall not be open to him to suddenly adopt the defence that it has not been proved that he is one of the persons to whom the proclamation under the Act applies. Under this paragraph the averment of the prosecutor is proved, but that will not dispense with proof of the essence of the offence. The object of the provision is to avoid the possibility of a defence, not on the merits of the case. If the defendant is not amongst the class of persons liable to make the return he will be at liberty to prove that. The second paragraph makes provision that - a certificate in writing, signed by the Statisti cian, certifying that no form,filled up and signed by the defendant in accordance with this Act, has been received by the Statistician, shall be  primâ facie  evidence that the defendant had failed to transmit the form to the Statistician. 
The Court is asked to presume from the certificate signed by the Statistician that the defendant failed to transmit a return as required by the law. The defendant may go into Court and prove, in the manner I have indicated already, that he did post the return, and if he gives evidence to that effect the Court will weigh that evidence in conjunction with the surrounding circumstances. The Court, like  Senator Senior,  or any other member of the Senate, will take into consideration the fact that, although the Post Office is a remarkably efficient institution, no human agency is absolutely proof against error. If the Court sees that the defendant is transparently sincere, and has no doubt whatever that he did post a return, it will conclude that some accident happened to the return, and be very reluctant indeed to find the defendant guilty. But if the defendant shuffles and hesitates, gives one date now and another a little later, and contradicts himself in various ways, the Court may justifiably come to the conclusion that he failed to send in a return, and is merely trying to make out that he did do so. 
That would be taken into consideration. He might say, "I remember posting a return. I stamped the letter, and took it out for the purpose of posting it, and I have not seen it since. If it has not been received I am prepared now to fill in a form and sign it." In such a case it is probable that an adjournment of the matter would be made; the defendant would fill in another return, and the prosecution would go no further. These provisions do not throw any great disability upon the defendant. If a man does not appear at all at the hearing, the certificate of the Statistician that no form filled up and signed by the defendant had been received will be before the Court, but there will be nothing else before it, and the Court can only come to the conclusion that he did not forward a return. If this provision were not included in the law, and twenty prosecutions were launched against twenty different individuals, not one of whom turned up at the trial, some official would require to be called away from probably important work to go into the witness-box in each case, and prove what, under this provision, would be set out in the certificate signed by the Statistician. One of the advantages of such a provision would be that it would obviate the necessity for the adoption of that course.  Senator Pearce, Senator O'Keefe,  and other members of the Senate were here when legislation of this kind was first introduced, and will remember that it was viewed with a certain amount of apprehension. Nothing, however, has followed from its operation which will justify an attitude of hostility to what is proposed in this Bill. This kind of legislation has not worked any great injustice or harshness such as was anticipated, with a reasonable amount of justification, would follow from its operation when first introduced. I think the Government are well advised, if the War Census Act is to be carried out effectively, in introducing these provisions, which find their analogy in so many of the Acts upon our statutebook. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 - 
After section 17a of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: - 17b. In any proceedings for an offence against this Act - 
the averment of the prosecutor contained in the information that the defendant is included among the persons or classes of persons specified in any proclamation under this Act shall be deemed to be proved in the absence of proof to the contrary; and 
a certificate in writing signed by the Statistician, certifying that no form, filled up and signed by the defendant in accordance with this Act, has been received by the Statistician, shall be  primâ facie  evidence that the defendant has failed to transmit the form to the Statistician. 
I listened with a great deal of attention and interest to  Senator Keating's  explanation of this clause. While, speaking generally, the conclusions at which he has arrived may he perfectly correct, we are dealing in this proposed amendment of the War Census Act with specific cases that do not come within the sweep of the general law. We set aside the manythousands who do send in returns, and propose to deal with those whom the Statistician says have not forwarded returns. It may be very easy for a merchant who keeps a letter -book to prove that he posted a particular letter, but ordinary people do not keep letter-books. The posting of their letters is done sometimes directly by themselves, sometimes by a neighbour, and very often by a child. A man may be perfectly honest in the performance of his duty, but if the Statistician has not received a card from him, and makes a statement to that effect, it will be regarded as  primâ facie  evidence of neglect. 
A man will be placed in a very difficult position if called upon to prove that, on a certain date, and at a certain time, he had performed a particular duty in regard to the War Census returns. 
I will come to that presently. I have not had very much experience in Court business; but I have known of cases in which a perfectly innocent person under cross-examination has been' so confused as to leave an impression in the mind of the Court that he was in the wrong. If a man charged under this Bill found himself in such circumstances, it might be regarded asprimâ  facie  evidence that he was trying to deceive the Court. We want to deal with this matter from a common-sense standpoint, and not regard a man as a criminal simply because it may be alleged that he has failed to perform a certain duty required of him. I do not wish to see this Bill passed in a form that will inflict hardship upon any individual, or involve the Commonwealth in any loss. 
My desire is to safeguard the interests of the individual. Some time ago, when a Bill containing a similar provision was introduced, the Minister in charge remarked that it was a departure to throw the onus of proof upon the person in charge; but it appears to me that it is the tendency of legislation of late to do that. 
I would suggest, in a case like this, that if a man, after having had his attention called to the fact that a card had not been received from him, refused to fill in a card, he should be guilty of an offence. 
But surely a man shouldbe notified of any failure, or of the fact that a return has not been received from him. A summons would then be issued against him. In my opinion, that would be far more costly, assuming that the action failed, than for the Department to issue a notification that, after a certain date, he would be charged with having failed to comply with the requirements of the War Census Act. Comparatively few have failed to furnish returns, and they should be given an opportunity to do so. Our legislation should be so precise in its terms as not to leave action to depend on the temperament of any Government or the disposition of any official. It is rather too far to go to say that, because a card had not been received from a man, it should be regarded as  primâ facie  evidence of an offence against the Act. I have in view, of course, the residents of the back-blocks, who may find it difficult to furnish the necessary proofs that they have complied with the Act. 
I think  Senator Senior  is stretching his imagination a very great distance to bolster up a fancied grievance which exists, probably, in the minds of Only a few people. When these cards were printed, it was made known all over Australia that each person had to fill one in and forward it to a stated address; and we may take it that the introduction of this Bill is necessary because some persons have failed to do so. The Government are not anxious to be vindictive, or to do any person an injury; hut the obligation was on everybody to do his or her duty in regard to the War Census returns.  Senator Senior  says that if we pass the Bill in its present form, the onus of proof will be on the person charged, and that it would be much easier for the Statistician to prove that he had not received a reply from a person expected to furnish one than it would he for that person to prove that he had posted a card. It might or it might not be. But if the person who is charged with not having complied with the War Census provisions can satisfy any intelligent Court that he has filled in and posted a card, no penalty will be imposed.  Senator Senior  seems to think that we should employ the clerical staff of the Statistician's office to send out special forms to persons who were so careless or indifferent as to ignore the provisions of the War Census Act. The honorable senator argues that they should be treated differently from those persons who had forwarded their cards. There cannot be any real harm in passing the Bill in its present form. It is not new, because such a provision has been in the Customs Act ever since that measure has been operative, and I can assure  Senator Senior  that if such a provision had not been in that Act, many prosecutions for evasions of the law would have failed. This provision is only proposed to be inserted now because it is absolutely necessary in the interests of the people and the Commonwealth. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
 I move - 
That this Bill  be  now read a second time. 
The existing law as to the promulgation of regulations by means of Statutory 
Rules provides alternative methods. The normal method is to give sixty days' notice in the  Commonwealth Gazette  of the intention to make certain regulations, and at the expiration of that period to make the regulations in permanent form. The other method, which was intended to be used only in cases of urgency, is to make regulations provisionally, without notice, to come into operation at once, and to confirm those regulations after the expiration of sixty days by the issue of other regulations superseding the provisional ones. The confirmation of provisional rules is not obligatory, as the provisional rules have full force so long as they are not superseded by the confirmatory rules. It has been found in practice that the method of making regulations by giving sixty days' notice is seldom adopted, recourse being usually had to the provisional system on account of its greater expedition. In many cases regulations need frequent amendment owing to changing circumstances, and it has not been found advisable to issue the confirmatory regulations. When confirmatory regulations1 are issued the expense of double printing is involved. Under these circumstances it has been thought advisable to abolish the alternative methods provided in the Act, and to have one system of making regulations. Under the proposed law, the necessity for giving notice, which has been open to objection on account of delay, and the necessity of confirming regulations, which resulted in duplication of printing, will be abolished. Henceforth all regulations will be made to come into immediate operation and continue so until repealed. 
.- I have no objection to the Bill, but I do object to the way in which regulations are at present sent to members. They come by post in ones and twos, and it is almost impossible for the average member to grasp what they mean. Could they not be sent out in pamphlet or booklet form quarterly or half-yearly? One often discovers that a big principle is affected only after a regulation has gone through. 
.- The regulations up to 1914 have been printed in book form, but owing to the pressure of war legislation on the Attorney-General's Department, the 1915 volume cannot be brought out. 
A simple and methodical plan for honorable members to follow with regard to regulations is to interleave them in the Acts to which they apply. If the Department held back the regulations until they had a number to send out, as  Senator Findley  suggests, they might delay the posting of an important regulation for two or three weeks, and honorable members would complain about being kept in the dark. The honorable senator can hardly expect the Department to follow the regulations up and paste them in hie Acts for him. 
Under the sixty days' notice provision it was open to anybody interested to write to the law-making authority on seeing the notice of a new regulation in the  Gazette.  The other system was to introduce regulations as provisional, making them permanent at the end of sixty days. I see no objection to the course now proposed; in fact, the present practice will  be  more in accord with the Bill as proposed to be amended than it is with the Act as it now stands; but it is desirable, if the Bill is passed, for the Government to make all possible efforts to have the purport of regulations brought under the notice of the persons to be affected by them. A certain date was fixed by regulationas the last day on which returnsunder the Federal Income Tax had to be filed. A day or two before that date I was asked by all the accountants of the largest firms in Tasmania for information about the provisions of the Act and regulations, and the only way I could get it was by telegraphing to Melbourne for a copy. There was not one available in the north of Tasmania. These gentlemen had been endeavouring for more than a week prior to their approaching me to secure a copy of the Act and of the regulations. In another part of the Commonwealth important prosecutionswere launched under legislation which was enacted during the present long session and counsel on either side had no copy either of the Act or of the regulations under which those prosecutions were instituted. 
No. But in this particular case counsel for the Commonwealth asked me if I could assist him by providing him with a copy of the Act and the regulations. These prosecutions were launched very shortly after the Acthad been passed and the regulations had been promulgated. Had it not been for the fact that the hearing of the case was adjourned, neither the Act nor the regulations would have been available before it was determined. It very often happens that regulations are the flesh and blood of Acts of Parliament, which merely represent the skeletons of our legislation. I think that the Government might very well make use of the post-offices and of other Commonwealth instrumentalities by providing that copies of Commonwealth Statutes and regulations should be kept on hand there for sale to the public. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Senior)  adjourned. 
Can the Minister of Defence,without disclosing information which ought not to be made public, and in order to relieve the anxiety of the relatives of soldiers at the front, inform the Senate whether the casualty lists last published represent casualties suffered by Australian soldiers in action in France, or represent casualties suffered elsewhere? 
The British Government have discontinued the practice of indicating the locality in which casualties take place, both as regards their own Forces and the Forces of the Dominions. I think the honorable senator will find, on looking through the casualty lists referred to, that there is a date placed opposite each casualty which will serve to indicate where it took place. 
Has the attention of the Minister of Defence been drawn to a paragraph in to-day's  Age  headed, " A Separate Peace," and referring to a question directed to  Mr. Tudor  in another place regarding an alleged statement by the Prime Minister in Canada that Australia had been approached in that direction? In the paragraph in question the statement is made - 

 Mr. Tudor replied that Germany had not consulted Australia or any other Dominion,so far as he knew, concerning such a peace. 

 Mr. Fowler  (Western Australia). Did Australia consult Germany? 
I wish to know if the Minister of Defence has seen this report, and whether it is not competent for the Government to take action against an individual making such a hellish insinuation against the Australian Government? 
I have seen the statement referred to. In my opinion, the effect of any statement upon public opinion may be gauged by the source from which it emanates. Holding that view, I do not think that a statement coming from such a source as that indicated in the report quoted is likely to cause any perturbation in the public mind. 
Before any fur ther questions are put without notice, I wish to intimate that the question asked by  Senator Long  and the reply to it by the Minister of Defence are contrary to the Standing Orders and practice of the Senate. I have looked the matter up, and our Standing Orders strictly forbid any reference to proceedings in another place. I make this intimation for the guidance of honorable senators, and that they may know that in future such questions cannot be allowed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister of Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that officers in the Customs Department are being worked onholidays without any extra payment? 
If so, will he take steps to endeavour to rectify this state of affairs? 
Theanswers are- 
Extra payment is made for all work performed by officers on any of the holidays specified in sub-section 1 of section 72 of the Public Service Act, namely : - First day of January, 26th day of January, Christmas Day and the following day, Good Friday and the following Saturday and Monday, the anniversary of the birthday of the Sovereign, and any day proclaimed by the Governor-General or required by any Act to be observed in lieu of any of the said days. It was recently decided by the 
Cabinet, however, that, except in the cases mentioned, no special payment was to be made for work performed on holidays proclaimed as State holidays, but not specified in the section referred to. 
In view of the decision of Cabinet, it is not proposed to alter the present practice. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister of Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
If, in view of the greatly increased prices of oil, petrol, and oil products in Australia, the Minister of Trade and Customs is aware that negotiations are still in progress between the Tasmanian State Government and the Latrobe Shale Company for the former to take over and develop the extensive and valuable shale deposits at Latrobe, Tasmania? 
Will the Minister take into consideration the question of altering the present bounty on kerosene and paraffin wax to a bounty on crude oil and petrol in order to stimulate and encourage the Australian production of oil and its by-products? 
The answers are - 
Yes. 
The matter will receive consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
In connexion with the threatened strike of letter-carriers in Brisbane as a protest against being prevented from taking part in theEight Hour Day celebrations, will he furnish the following information :  - 
Did the Postmaster-General wire to  Mr. Templeton, Deputy  Postmaster-General, Brisbane, instructing him to permit the letter-carriers to commence their duties at such an early hour as would enable them to finish in time to take part in the Eight Hour celebrations? 
If so, on what date was that wire sent to  Mr. Templeton? 
Did  Mr. Templeton  immediately and officially communicate the contents of that wire to the union concerned, or is it a fact that the Letter-Carriers Union heard nothing officially of the PostmasterGeneral's concession until a Federal member  (Mr. W. F. Finlayson, M.P.),  with a view to preventing a strike, secured the substance of the wire from  Mr. Templeton  and gave it to their secretary? 
The answers are - 1 and 2. No; but on 12th April, the PostmasterGeneral wrote asking him if such arrangements could be made, as, if so, the Minister desired that to be done. 
On 26th April, the Minister' received a wire saying arrangements as desired had been made. Such was immediately communicated to all concerned.  Mr. Templeton  evidently decided on the 20th April. The Minister does not know whether he communicated same to union officially. 
I have looked carefully through this Bill, and also through the principal Act which it is proposed to amend. It is the duty of honorable senators to conserve, as far as they possibly can, the functions of Parliament. One of those functions - and the principal one - is that of legislation. But by virtue of certain provisions which are appended to Bills, we frequently find that our powers of legislation have passed into the hands of Departments, or of officials in Departments. To my mind, the two sections of the Rules Publication Act of 1903 which it is proposed to repeal have hitherto largely safeguarded the functions of Parliament. We are now invited by a single  stroke of the pen to excise these provisions, and to forfeit much more than appears on the surface. Paragraph 3 of section 3 of the principal Act provides - 
The statutory rules to which this section applies are those made in pursuance of any Act which directs the statutory rules to be laid before the Houses of the Parliament, but do not include any statutory rules if they, or a draft thereof, are required to be laid before the Houses of the Parliament for any period before the rules come into operation. 
The elimination of that provisionwill give full effect to paragraph 4 of section 5 of the Act, which reads - 
Regulations under this Act may prescribe the class of cases in which the exercise of a statutory power by any rule-making authority constitutes, or does not constitute, the making of a statutory rule within the meaning of this section. 
I ask honorable senators not to consent to hand over indiscriminately to the heads of Departments powers so vast and farreaching. Only yesterday,  Senator Findley  called attention to the voluminous character of the statutory rules and regulations which are being printed from time to time, and requested that, on account of their bulk, they might be bound up quarterly. In these troublous times there may be occasions on which it may be imperative for the Defence Department, for example, to act immediately. In such circumstances I have no objection to it acting under statutory rules. But this Bill covers all cases, and will really have the effect of transferring from Parliament, and vesting in the head of a Department, the power to make laws. I have every confidence that the present Government will do what is right. But Ministers come and go, and if we consent to this proposal now the principle which we sanction may eventually be used against us in a very determined way. Of course, it will probably be argued that when Parliament meets any honorable senator will be at liberty to take exception to any rules to which he may object. That is a very easy way of locking the stable door after the steed has been stolen. But it is much easier to conserve our privileges now than it will be to regain possession of them when once we have parted with them. I view with very great apprehension the proposal to hand over to the heads of Departments the functions of Parliament. 

 Senator GARDINER (New South Wales - Vice-President of the Executive has put it, there were any intention to deprive honorable senators of the control which they now exercise over regulations, I would join him in his protest. But I would point out that this Bill is based on the experience of fifteen years. When the principal Act was passed, a provision was inserted in it requiring that sixty days' notice should be given of any proposal to make statutory rules, with a view to adequately protecting the public. During that period of sixty days it is open to any member of the public who is interested to take exception to any rule. Yet in the whole course of fifteen years not a single exception to any proposed statutory rule has been lodged. In this Bill we propose to adopt a system which represents a sort of mean between the urgency system that is now in existence and the old and slower method under which there was double printing and double trouble. The measure is merely a machinery measure, and the right of honorable senators to veto any rule or regulation will still exist. We merely propose to adopt  a  simpler method than the existing one. - an improved method based upon fifteen years' experience of the working of the principal Act. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from Committee without amendment; report adopted. 
I move - 
That this Bill he now read a second time. 
The measure is a very simple one, and as there are two similar Bills to follow in which the same principle is involved, it is my intention to make my remarks on this Bill apply also to them. For administrative purposes Australia has been divided into States, but it has been found that this arrangement does not always work satisfactorily in regard to the administration of the Post and Telegraph Department, the Customs Department, and the Public Service. As an illustration, I may point out that the  Deputy  Postmaster-General of New South Wales controls his Department from Sydney, and at present whenever it is necessary to transfer an official from any part of New South Wales to say, Broken Hill, his expenses have to be paid through Victoria and South Australia to the latter place. It is the desire of the Government to make for more economic working of the departments referred to, and in the case of the Bill now under consideration, to enable the Postmaster-General of South Australia to transfer an official from the South Australian service to Broken Hill, thus saving the Department considerable expenditure. The same system will be followed by the Customs Department and the Public Service. Under this Bill the  Deputy  Postmaster-General of South Australia will control Broken Hill, thus making it possible to save something like onefourth of the expenditure at present incurred by sending officials all the way from New South Wales to Broken Hill whenever a transfer is authorized. The same principle of adminstration will be applied in the different States where it may be found to be necessary. 
From the Minister's remarks I gather that the purpose of this Bill is to effect economy in the management of the respective Departments named, for it does seem a waste of money, when transfers are being effected, to send a man from New South Wales to such a distant part of the State as Broken Hill, when the same purpose could be effected by having a transfer from the Department under control of the South Australian Deputy PostmasterGeneral. What I am for the moment concerned about is as to whether it isthe intention of the Government to clothe officials in the Adelaide Post Office with authority to transfer a man from the Adelaide office to Broken Hill instead of formally getting the approval of the Public Service Commissioner for transfer from the New South Wales Department to Broken Hill, and whether this suggested alteration in the interests of economy will interfere in any way with the promotion of men who may not happen to be in proximity to an office where a vacancy occurs. 
If that is so I am satisfied. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Amendment of Section 7). 
.- If the Federal Territory is administered separately from the State of New South Wales at present, this would be a most convenient opportunity to discontinue that system and merge the whole of it under the New South Wales Deputy Postmaster-General for the sake of economy in administration. 
.- The Federal Territory is administered by the  Deputy  Postmaster-General, Sydney, for postal purposes, and will doubtless continue to be so until Yass-Canberra becomes a big enough centre to justify a change. An instance of what the Bill aims at is furnished by the position of Deniliquin, the only rail communication with which is from Victoria. In the circumstances it is foolish to have Deniliquin administered for postal purposes by the  Deputy  PostmasterGeneral,New South Wales. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
The principle is the same as that of the previous Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee : 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Amendment of Section 2). 
Has an estimate been made of the savings to be effected by the alteration proposed? 
SenatorRUSSELL (Victoria - Assistant Minister) [11.57]. - No exact estimates have been taken out, but it can be seen at a glance that the savings involved intaking stores to Broken Hill from Adelaide instead of from Sydney would be considerable. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
Exactly the same principle operates as in the two previous Bills. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee : 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 verbally amended, and agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment. 
Motion (by  Senator Pearce)  agreed to- 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the Bill being passed through its remaining stages without delay. 
Report adopted. 
I take advantage of this opportunityto bring under the notice of the Government, through the Minister of Defence, a matter of some importance to persons travelling frequently to Melbourne from other States. Owing to the conditions due to the war, vessel desiring to enter Port Phillip Heads must first obtain permission to do so. An examination boat is stationed outside the Heads, and all! steamers desiring to enter the port have to obtain the necessary permission from the examination officer. I do not wish to. question the necessity for such a restriction or, so far as ships generally entering the Heads are concerned, the manner in which it is imposed. But I wish to ask whether one or two irritating results of the restriction might not be removed. For instance, boats regularly engaged in trading between Tasmania and the mainland, and well known to the officer commanding; the forts at the Heads, and to the officer in charge of the examination boat, have, on more than one occasion, been held up and" delayed outside the Heads. In one case the delay extended for nearly an hour. Delay occurred to the  Oonah,  on which I travelled the last time I came from Tasmania to Melbourne. We had had a good passage across, and on nearing the Heads we found that the examination boat was several miles out interrogating a schooner that was about to enter the port. We had to toss about outside, aimlessly waiting to secure permission from theexamination officer to enter the Heads. The  Oonah .  is one of the best known traders between Tasmania and the mainland, and because the examination boat was six or seven miles out from the Heads, the passengers on the  Oonah,  who wore not feeling too well after their trip, were tossed about while waiting for what was merely a routine permission by the examination officer. I ask whether, in the case of steamers frequently trading in and out of the port, and perfectly well known to the officer in command of the forts and to the examination officer, some arrangement could not be made by signalling between the officer in charge of the fort and the examination boat to permit such vessels to promptly enter the Heads. Delay in the case of such vessels does not appear to be necessary, and that such delays may in the future be obviated is my reason for bringing the matter before the Minister. 
.- The inconvenience referred to by  Senator Ready  is one which I know has caused some little friction. I think it should he possible, in the case of boats that are so well known as these regular traders must be, for some system of signalling to be arranged which would obviate unnecessary delay. I shall bring the matter under the notice of the Minister for the Navy with that object in view. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
On Thursday last, I asked SenatorPearce, the Acting Prime Minister, to bring before the Cabinet the advisability of protecting the interests of soldiers at the front who have mortgages on their homes. I ask the honorable senator now whether the Government have since given the matter any consideration? 
In regard to the question raised by Senators Buzacott and Keating of assistance by the Commonwealth Government to enlisted soldiers of the Australian Imperial Force, who, having contracted financial obligations before enlistment, are unable to meet them because of their absence on active service, the Government have decided to ask the Attorney-General to take the necessary steps for the establishment of a moratorium, which will prevent foreclosure during the absence of such soldiers, in respect of loans, mortgages, or debts. 
asked the Minister of Defence,  upon notice - 
Was a recent decision given that a limited number of officers of the Physical Training Instructional Staff were to be given a chance to obtain appointments in the Australian Imperial Force? 
How many of these officers have been appointed to the Australian Imperial Force, and what was the procedure adopted in their selection? 
Will the Minister supply a list of the officers of the Physical Training Instructional Staff who have passed military examinations, are qualified, and have applied to go to the front, but have been passed over, and the reason or reasons for their non-selection? 
Could not a system be devised that all of the officers mentioned in 3 be given an opportunity toserve  at  the front, and yet not interfere with the continuance of the physical training work which they are at present doing ? 

 Senator PEARCE. - The answers are - 
Yes. 2. (a) Two officers have been appointed, and two others arc at present under consideration. 
The following were the instructions issued in regard to the appointment of officers of the Physical Training Instructional Staff to the Australian Imperial Force: - 
It has been decided to recommend for approval that a limited number of officers employed on the Physical Training Instructional Staff shall be given appointments in the Australian Imperial Force. 
Applications are to be invited by District Commandants from the officers of the Physical Training Instructional Staff under their command who are desirous of serving abroad, prior consideration being given to those officers who hold substantive commissions on the Unattached List, A.M.F. 
The applications, which should state fully the military qualifications of applicants, are to be submitted by District Commandants to their respective District Selection Committees for a recommendation. 
District Commandants will forward to Head-Quarters the applications of the officers recommended by the District Selection Committees, together with their own recommendation. 
The final selection is made by the Ad j u tant-General . 
List of Officers of P.T.I. Staff who have passed military examinations in addition to the examinations required in their professional training as Officers of the Physical Training Staff, are qualified, and have applied to go to the front, but have not been approved: - 

 Military District.Rank and Name. Appointment. Reason for non-approval. 

Head-Quarters. - MajorF. J. Alderson, Director and Chief Instructor. No other officer qualified and available to carry out his duties and act as the adviser to the Department on Physical Training. 1st Military District. - Lieut. A. G. Murray, Assistant Instructor. Not recommended by District Selection Committee in view of the fact that only a limited number of officers of the P.T.I. Staff was to be considered. 2nd Military District. - Lieut. W. H. Flynn, Assistant Instructor. No suitable vacancy existed. Not deemed by Selection Committee to have claim to appointment in preference to other waiting candidates who had better qualifications. Has not attended A.I.F. School. 2nd Military District. - Lieut. H. T. Woolley, Assistant Instructor. No suitable vacancy existed. Not deemed by Selection Committee to have claim to appointment in preference to other waiting candidates who had better qualifications. Has not attended A.I.F. School. 3rd Military District. - Lieut. E. K. Hatfield, Assistant Instructor. This officer is still serving his probationary period on the P.T.I. Staff, and it was considered desirable that he complete this period before being considered. 5th Military District. - Captain. J. F. Rogers, Instructor. No suitable vacancy to which this officer could at present be appointed. 5th Military District. - Lieut. H. S. Hatton, Assistant Instructor. This officer is still serving his probationary period on the P.T.I. Staff, and it was considered desirable that he complete this period before being considered. 6th Military District. - Lieut. C. R. Collins, Assistant Instructor. No local qualified instructor available to replace this officer. 
The question of filling his place is still under consideration. 
Consideration will be given wherever possible to afford an opportunity to these officers to serve. 

 Senator McKISSOCK asked the Minister of Defence,  upon notice - 
Does he not consider that the practice of saluting of officers by members of the Expeditionary Force of inferior rank is both irksome and vexatious, and expressive of servility? 
Will he issue instructions that, outside of military operations, encampments, &amp;c., members of the Forces will not be required or expected to salute each other outside the duties and places aforesaid ? 
Is it a fact that the employees in the various Departments under his control have to either salute or take off their hats to visiting officers; and, if so, will he compel a discontinuanceof such custom ? 

 Senator PEARCE. - The answers are - 
No. Saluting is a practice adopted in all 
European Armies, and has been proved by long experience to be an important factor in the attainment of discipline, without which an army is but a futile rabble. It is in no way expressive of servility, but is an acknowledgment of the authority vested in His Majesty's Commission. The 'personal element is entirely absent. It is as incumbent upon the officer to return the salute as upon the soldier to give it; and, further, saluting is. not confined to the rank and file, all officers being required to salute their seniors. 
No. Australian soldiers will be in constant touch with the Imperial and Allied Forces necessitating the maintenance of a principle of discipline common to all those armies. 
No. Saluting by soldiers in uniform is compulsory by regulation, but the raising of the hat by employees not in uniform is not compulsory. 

 Senator READY asked the Minister of Defence,  upon notice - 
Is the Minister aware that complaints have reached Tasmania to the effect that the Staff Pay Officers in Egypt, in some instances, were not allowing soldiers to alter or amend their allotments of pay in favour of relations or friends? 
If so, will the Minister, if possible, endeavour to arrange that permission be given to any soldiers in France or Egypt to alter their allotments if they at any time wish ? 

 Senator PEARCE. - The answers are - 
Yea. 
Instructions were issued to the Officer Commanding, Australian Imperial Force, HeadQuarters, Cairo, that, if possible, arrangements were to bo made to remedy the cause of complaint. 
asked the Acting Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Minister for Home Affairs has issued instructions: That the plans, specifications, quantities, and estimates for the reconstruction of the Customs House, Sydney, be referred to  Mr. W.  B. Griffin forhis consideration? 2.Is th is action approved by the Cabinet? 
If so, is it intended that  Mr. W.  B. Griffin shall act as Director-General of Works for the Commonwealth in addition to his duties as Director of Design and Construction of the Federal Capital? 

 Senator PEARCE. - The answers are - 1 and 3. No; but the facts are that the Minister, not being satisfied that the proposed expenditure on the reconstruction of the Customs House, Sydney, and the plans thereof, had been sufficiently examined, asked  Mr. Murdoch  and  Mr. Oakeshott,  of the Department of Home Affairs, and  Mr. Griffin,  to have a conference on the matter; which after considerable delay took place on 21st and 22nd January, and again on 16th and 22nd February, with the result that the Department recommended and effected certain improvements and economics in the plans, the principal feature being the reduction of cost obtained by substituting timber construction for reinforced concrete. 
No adequate specifications with itemized quantities for accurately estimating the cost were passed upon by the Public Works Committee 
The  PRESIDENT.-  I call attention again to the fact that I have repeatedly ruled that, under the Standing Orders and the practice of Parliament, questions with or without notice are only permissible for the purpose of obtaining information, and that the answers are subject to exactly the same limitation, that is to say, they are limited to supplying the information asked for by the questions. The questions asked by  Senator Story  are plain and direct, and each could be answered by a plain "Yes" or "No." I have allowed the Minister to proceed with his reply to the questions, up to a certain point. It must be admitted that the answer he has so far read more than adequately answers the questions put. But the answer proceeds to argue a contention with regard to something about which  Senator Story  did not ask for any information at all.  Senator Story  asked for no information as to the plans or estimates that were submitted to the Public Works Committee. The answer the Minister was proceeding to give enters upon a long explanation and reasons on this subject; and I have, therefore, to rule him out of order on that portion of the answer to the questions that have been put. 

 Senator PEARCE.- I think, sir, that the answer I have to the second question will conform to your ruling. It is - 
The matter is one coming within the province of the Minister. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister of Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
Upon what date was the Customs House, Sydney, vacated by the Customs and other Departments ? 
When was the work of reconstruction commenced ? 
What progress has been made with the work ? 

 Senator RUSSELL. - The answers are - 
All Departments with the exception of the Shipping Master were removed from the Customs House between last Christmas and New Year's holidays. The Shipping Master is under State control, and is still in possession. 2 and 3. Demolition work was ordered on 17th February, 1916, and the demolition of the central wing and cleaning off and stacking of material therefrom has been completed. Reconstruction will be commenced as soon as the Public Works Committee have again reviewed the matter, which the Minister desires Parliament to re-submit to them owing to the huge difference between the estimate upon which they reported, viz., £29,000, and the now more closely calculated estimate of £51,481 7s. l1d. 
asked the Acting Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Whether, in view of the fact that the Acting Prime Minister cabled to the Imperial Government expressing deep regret at the Irish Rebellion, and intimating that representative Irishmen here had denounced and repudiated it, he is now prepared to again cable to the Imperial Government informing them that the Irishmen to whom he referred in his former cable deeply deplore the hasty and wholesale execution of Irish revolutionaries, and regret that their countrymen are not receiving that clemency which was shown to the rebels in the recent South African revolt? 

 Senator PEARCE. - The answer is - 
In view of the attitude of the Government of the United Kingdom on this question, as reported by cables appearing in the Australian press, and of the fact that the Prime Minister,  Mr. Asquith,  is now visiting Ireland to inquire into the whole matter, the Government think it inadvisable to send such a message at the present time. 
I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
I understand that an attempt will be made elsewhere to enable us to deal with the Appropriation Bill to-morrow. In the meantime, we must wait on another place, because, unfortunately, the most important Bills which the Government wish to pass - such as the War Pensions Bill, and War Profits Taxation Billare money Bills, and must originate there. 
If the Minister's hopes with regard to the passage of the Budget to-night are not realized, will he urge the Government to re-adjust the business-paper of another place so that some of the other measures may be considered and passed, thus giving us business to deal with? 
I urge the Minister to make a special effort to see that the Senate has work to keep it occupied until 8 p.m. tomorrow. I warn him that I am anxious to move, and debate, the motion standing in my name in favour of changing the name of the Federal Capital to Anzac; and, if necessary, will occupy the whole of the day myself in order to create the opportunity. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
.- By leaveIn connexion with the speech delivered in the House of Representatives last night by the Postmaster-General, referring to matters of administration of the Department of Home Affairs, the Government proposes to arrange for the appointment of a Royal Commission. If possible, the Commission will consist of a Judge, and the Acting Prime Minister will arrange for that. The Commission will be asked to take as the basis of such inquiry the  Hansard  reports of the speech above referred to and the speeches delivered since the re-assembling of Parliament by the honorable member for Hindmarsh, dealing with administrative matters in the Home Affairs Department, and also statements and answers to questions dealing with the same matters made by the Minister of Home Affairs in the House of Representatives . 
Has the Minister of Defence information about the reported arrival of Bulgarians at Broken Hill? 
In view of your ruling yesterday,  Mr. President,  and as my answer is rather explanatory, I ask leave to make a statement. 
Leave granted. 
On the 2nd March, 1916, the Secretary of State for the Colonies cabled to the Commonwealth Government, intimating that an arrangement had been made with the Bulgarian Government, on the basis of reciprocity, not to detain in the United Kingdom or the British Empire, or in  His  Majesty's Overseas Dominions, Bulgarian subjects who were under seventeen, or over forty-five years of age on the date of the declaration of war between Great Britain and Bulgaria, nor to intern Bulgarian subjects of any age so long as they are able to provide for themselves, unless there are special reasons of a military character which would render internment desirable. The Secretary of State expressed the hope that the Commonwealth Government would concur in this policy. The Minister for Defence issued instructions to the Commandant of each Military District in accordance with this notification from the Secretary of State, and instructed each Commandant to go through the lists of Bulgarians interned from his district, to ascertain who on these lists conformed with the notification of the Secretary of State, and to communicate with the Commandant of the Concentration Camp where the Bulgarians were interned, who had been instructed to liberate those recommended by the District Commandants. Commandants were also informed that, in considering future cases of internment, they should be guided by the above arrangements. In the 4th Military District, South Australia, forty-seven Bulgarians were affected by the arrangements set out, and the Commandant of the Concentration Camp was instructed that they were to be released on condition that they reported to the police of the place to which they were proceeding. He was further instructed to provide railway warrants for their return to Adelaide. If a large batch of them desired to travel together the Commandant was informed that it would be wise to defer their release until he had an escort going to the State in question. No instructions were issued from headquarters that any of these Bulgarians were to be sent to Broken Hill, nor for any military guard to be sent to Broken Hill in connexion therewith; and up to the present the Department has no information as to how it came about that they were sent there. Inquiries are, however, being made. The guard which escorted these Bulgarians from the Concentration Camp is now in Melbourne, on its return to New South Wales. The officer in charge of the guard states that his orders were to take the men to Adelaide, and hand them over to the authorities there. This he did. There is no reply yet from the Commandant in Adelaide. The authorities were rung up this morning to expedite matters. 
asked the Acting Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is the Government aware that persons in the employ of the Queensland Government, and who are students of the University, are given the time off from their duties to attend the lectures at the University on Saturday mornings? 
Are persons in the employ of the Federal Government allowed the same privilege? 
If not, will the Government make arrangements for such privilege to be granted to those students in Federal Government employment? 
The answers are - 
No. 2 and 3. Subject to the convenience of the Departments concerned, officers of the Commonwealth Public Service are granted permission to absent themselves from their official duties to attend University lectures on condition that the time thereby lost by the officer is made up. These arrangements are regarded as adequately meeting the circumstances. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister of Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is he aware that the lighthouse-keepers stationed at the following northern stations, viz., Cape Leveque, Gantheaume Point, Jaronan Island, North- West Cape, Cloates Point, and Cape Inscription ore only to Be relieved every three years and then to be transferred to southern stations? 
Is he aware that under previous conditions transference from those northern stations to southern stations could be obtained every two years ? 
Does he not think that, owing to the loneliness and monotony of the occupation, and the rigour of the northern climes, three years is too long? 
Will be take immediate steps to alter the period from three to two years? 
The answers are - 
Yes. 
Prior to the Commonwealth assuming control on 1st July, 1915, transference to southern stations was not given as a matter of course after two years, although in some cases this was done. 
It is considered that the extra year's service at northern stations is more than compensated for by the longer leave (twelve weeks) which accrues, and the right of transfer to southern stations. The position of keepers at these isolated stations has been specially considered, and a steamer service is being arranged for three timesannually instead of once only as formerly. Additional quarters will also be built as soon as possible at the majority of the stations named, and another man appointed at each place. 
Instructions were given in December last that the whole matter should be reviewed at the end of 1916. Consideration will then be given as to whether the period of service at the northern stations should remain at two years. 
asked the Minister of Defence,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that qualified pharmacists in the A.M.C. are only ranked as staff-sergeants, whereas commissioned rank is given in all other callings where professional services of a skilled expert nature are requires? 
Is it a fact that in the Canadian, French, Italian, Japanese, and German armies commissions are granted to all qualified pharmacists undertaking dispensary duties? 
Have any commissions been granted to qualified pharmacists in charge of any of the A.M.C. dispensaries in any of the camps? 
Is it a fact that qualified pharmacists have for several months been undertaking dispensing work in camps with the rank of acting-corporal and with private's pay? 
Seeing that the duties of quartermasters in the A.M.C. units are of a medical and pharmaceutical nature, will the Minister give instructions that a proportion of qualified pharmacists are to be appointed to these positions? 
Have any instructions been issued that qualified pharmacists only are to be placed in charge of all camp dispensaries ? 
Will the Minister, in view of the serious dearth of qualified pharmacists, give instructions that no further pharmacists are to be allowed to leave in the A.I.F. except in connexion with the medical service? 
The answers are - 
No. Both commissioned and noncommissioned officer rank are granted. 
Information in regard to the matter is not available. 
No. 
If so, it is contrary to orders from Headquarters. 
No. Quartermasters have nothing to do with pharmaceutical duties. They require special military knowledge. 
Yes. 
Not considered advisable. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Is there any truth in the statement to the effect that thousands of letters and parcels from members of the Australian Military Forces serving abroad, and now in the Melbourne General Post Office, are not to be delivered, but to be destroyed? And if true, what is the reason for such? 
The answer is - 
The following information has been furnished by the  Deputy  Postmaster-General, Melbourne, viz. :  - No. So far as letters received from members of the Australian Military Forces serving abroad are concerned they receive preferential treatment, and are delivered at the earliest possible moment after arrival at the General Post Office. The major portion of these letters is sorted  en route  in the sorting van by the staff of sorters which is sent to Adelaide to deal with the English and Expeditionary Forces mails on the return journey. 
asked the Minister of Defence,  upon notice - 
Who are the contractors supplying razors to the troops at Claremont Military Camp, Tasmania ? 
What are the contract prices, and what brand of razor is specified? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General,  upon notice - 
What number of applications have been lodged for exemption under the enemy shareholders regulations of the War Precautions Act? 
How many of these applications have been granted ? 
How many have been refused? 
The answers are - 
Number of applications lodged for exemption. 1,428. 2. (a) Number of exemptions granted generally, 346; (b) Number of exemptions granted to a limited extent, 171; Total, 517. 
Number of applications for exemptions refused, 21. These applications' are those of naturalized persons only. The Regulations do not allow of exemption to enemy subjects, all of whom are obliged to transfer their shares to the Public Trustee. 
.- I move- 
That in the opinion of the Senate the name of the Federal Capital should be changed from Canberra, and the capital re-christened " Anzac." 
I have to congratulate myself on having such a favorable opportunity to present this most important motion for the consideration of the Senate. It will serve a double purpose. In the first place, it enables me to invite the Senate to consider what, in my opinion,is one of the most important propositions ever placed before it, and, in the second place, it will provide work for honorable senators at a time when, but for a combination of circumstances in another place, they might be employed in the consideration of ordinary Government business. It would appear that even the Fates have conspired to afford me a fitting opportunity to deal with this most important question. I know that in making a request for a change in the name of the Federal Capital, I am engaging in no light task. 
I feel that the greatest care and foresight must be applied in the selection of a name for anything if it is to do  us  justice and credit. In the sphere of the family we are always very careful as to the names we select, because those names remain a test of our judgment in after years. As we think of such names from day to day we are reminded in some form or other of the care and  prudence  brought to bear in their selection. Even in the naming of domestic animals we are equally circumspect. If it be only a horse that we have to name, we feel some pride in thinking that the name we give will not be the subject of unfavorable comment or ridicule by our neighbours. When we consider the naming of the Federal Capital we have to bear in mind that we are giving a name to a place that will .last for all time, and be the citadel of the country's liberty and country's law making. We should, therefore, be careful to select for it a name which will do justice to the people of the Commonwealth. I am aware that in asking the Senate to agree to a change of name for the Federal Capital, I shall be up against the influence of old opinions, though in this case they are not older than about three and a half years. In proposing this innovation, I feel that even the passing of three and a half years is quite enough to constitute for some people a reason why the action taken originally should not be reviewed, and the name then selected for the capital changed to some other name. In submitting my motion I have to be on my guard against the influence of preconceived opinions as to the name which should be selected, even though they should have been formed only three and a half years ago, and also against a feeling which may be present in this chamber that the action I propose is of such a violent character that it will nob reflect the wisdom and judgment of the Senate. I feel that I have to steer, so to speak, between Scylla and Charybdis, two dangers not so very far from the Dardanelles, which were a menace to the mariner of old, as by trying to avoid  strikthe  one with hia frail barque, he was in danger of being sucked down by the other. It would appear, from hints that I have heard dropped, that my proposal may have to run the gauntlet which the ancient mariner had to run when he had to steer his barque between the two perils I have referred to. Be that as it may. 
I am quite content to let the motion rest on its merits, as before I conclude I hope to submit sound reasons sufficient to convince every member of the Senate not only that a change of the name of the Federal Capital is necessary, but that it should take place as soon as possible. Honorable senators will remember that when about three and a half years ago, " Canberra " was revealed to the world as the name by which the Federal Capital would be known, it was neither in accordance with the inclination, the assumption or belief of the people that such a name was chosen. What would be a suitable name for the Federal Capital was canvassed in the press, not for one or two, but for several years. Several names were suggested, according to the tastes of those making the suggestions. These names had a political or national significance, and some had reference to the part which the hardy and daring pioneers took in the early history of the country. Some names suggested had merely a geographical significance. Honorable senators will remember that such names as " Parkes,"  ' Barton, " " Cook, " " Leichhardt, ' ' " Kingston," and others were suggested. It is rather strange that some name was not selected that would be a perpetual reminder to the people of the Commonwealth of the special admiration merited by some outstanding figure in the development of our country in the past. The wisdom of the Government of the day apparently went in the direction of ignoring all that had been done in the past in the industrial, political, and pioneering spheres of the activities of our people, and they came down to the plain, prosy, monotonous level of choosing a name which, so far as inquiry and research have gone, indicates nothing, points nowhere, and does not appeal to the imagination of any person in the Commonwealth. 
That is so. It is surrounded by the bush at present. With due respect to the action of the Government of the day in selecting " Canberra " as the name of the Federal Capital, we have had an opportunity to look around since that selection was made, and in the meantime have had the record of an event which revealed in a marked degree the true type of the Australian character. The obligation, I think, is cast upon us to review our action, and to endeavour to find some more suitable name than " Canberra " for the Federal Capital, that is to be not for to-day or next day, but for all time. 
I said just now that the origin of " Canberra " is not clear. It is quite true that students of etymology and the archives stored here throwing some light on place-names were consulted in the past, but without result. The word " Canberra," so far as I can learn, has no significance worth speaking about. Colonel Miller, who is Administrator of the Federal Territory, is one authority I consulted. He thinks that it is a form of the word " Canbury," a place mentioned in some church records at the Federal Capital. This is merely a brilliant guess as to the probable origin of the name. I have tried by researches in the Library of this Parliament to discover the true origin of the word, whether it be an aboriginal name or an English name that has undergone some change of form, but the conclusion to which I have been forced to come is that " Canberra " has no real significance historically, geographically, or aboriginally. It is merely a chance word, the history of which was not important enough to be handed down to us by the aboriginals, if it be an aboriginal word, or by those who were associated . with the change from " Canbury " to " Canberra," if the latter be its true origin. It is not unreasonable now that three years have passed since the christening of the Federal Capital, that we should consider whether any warrant exists at the present time for a change of the name. It has been said by one authority that human action is mostly shaped in accordance with the current thought of the time, and really if that test of human action be applied to the selection of " Canberra," it is justified, since it indicates nothing, and the selection was made during a very placid period of this country's history, when nothing in particular was happening. 
I shall try later on to enlighten the Senate on those points. According to the authority of the learned publicist I have quoted, human action is mostly influenced by the current or dominant thought of the period, and in accordance with that maxim, "Canberra" fills the bill. It explains nothing. It is a term of accidental origin which has no bearing whatever on the national life of the country, the character of its people, or the development of its resources. I think that something has happened during the last twelve months to warrant a change of the name. An event has occurred which has a bearing on the character of our people, and which, in my view, justifies the change I propose in this motion.  Senator de  Largie has asked me what is the meaning of "London." Delving in the musty and misty records of the past, it is very hard to find out what is the true meaning or origin of the word " London." So far as the authorities consulted throw any light on the subject, I find that the word " London " is of Celtic origin, revealing the fact, which is already known to those acquainted with the subject, that the Celtic character has ever been noticeable in the vanguard of civilization and pioneering work everywhere. "London," according to the authority I consulted,  Longman's Gazetteer of the World,  1902 edition, is derived from the Celtic name ' ' Linndun " or " Llyndun," "Llyn " meaning a pool or marsh, and "dun" a fort erected over it. It would appear that even this word of Celtic origin was used to indicate the place out of regard merely for the physical features of the site. It was a marshy place with a mound or hill on which fortifications of a rude kind were erected. There is nothing in the use of the word " London " to indicate that those responsible for its selection looked for a name which would reflect the genius or character of its people. They were concerned only to give the place a name which indicated merely its physical or topographical features. That is not elevating at all. Those who have the power to give names, should, I think, select such names as will have an elevating and inspiring effect on the mind. That is the sum and substance of my effort this afternoon. With regard to the other national capitals, according to the authorities I have looked up, I find that the people of Germany were not at all fortunate in the choice of a name for their capital - Berlin. 
I hope so. If the derivation of the name "Berlin" is correctly stated, and after all it is only conjectural, it means "uncultivated land, or a ford-crossing place." "Paris" comes next, and that name is derived from the Roman names "Parisii" and  "Lutetia Parisiorum."  I suppose that it commemorates some Roman character of the early misty past, when the sway of the Roman eagle extended throughout the known world, and embraced all the western part of Europe, and even the British Islands. 
No, I believe they did not get into Ireland, the only unconquerable spot, or into Wales. Madrid is named from an Arabic word meaning a wind current. We know that Rome is called after its legendary founder, Romulus, but whether he existed or not has not been clearly established. Lisbon is from the Phoenician "  Alis ubbo,  meaning " delicious bay.'*' Venice is from the Latin  "Veneti,"  a maritime people. This selection comes more closely to my idea since it has some reference to the character of the people. The name "Venice" was chosen apparently out of respect for the calling in which its people were engaged, as they were a sea-faring people. .Vienna is derived from "  Vindobonia,"  a word of Celtic origin, meaning "white castle." The origin of Brussels is doubtful, but the oldest form of the word is "  Bruxella." 
So much for the names of the capitals of the Old World. The records are preserved which show how the capitals of the new world were named, and the origin of their names. The greatest example is that of the United States of America, where the capital is named after the national hero and deliverer Washington. In the case of Canada, Ottawa, the Seat of Government is not named after any particular characteristic of the white races there, or to commemorate what they did in subjugating that large Dominion. The capital of Canada is called " Ottawa," after a native tribe. Then we have " Cape Town," which has no particular significance. The capital of New Zealand is certainly named after a warrior whose name stands high in military history, but it does not indicate in any way what the New Zealand people have done in colonizing that island Dominion. There is nothing in the word "Wellington" to indicate that the people of New Zealand on their own account have any special claim to or interest in it. The capital is called after a warrior who was certainly great and bold, and won a worthy reputation, but the word has no local significance to which the people of New Zealand may look up in the future. 
Reviewing in brief the origin of the names of national capitals from ancient times until now, it would appear that in only one or two outstanding instances has the selection made reflected any credit on those responsible for it. Athens, the ancient capital of Greece, took it name from "Athene," the Goddess of science, arts, and arms. I look upon that as a worthy selection of a classic people. It is a name which specially appeals to all the beautiful tastes, habits, inclinations, and imagination of the people. " Washington," as the name for the capital of the United States of America, appeals to me also, and I trust that, following the temper and spirit of that worthy example, as a result of my motion the action taken by the Senate will cause "Anzac" to be substituted for " Canberra " as the name of the Federal Capital. .So much by way of the origin of names. 
We have a much stronger reason to name our Federal Capital " Anzac " than the Americans had to call their capital " Washington." The Americans had a long struggle for independence from the time when the first shot was fired at Lexington until the last was fired at Yorktown. A mighty effort was made by three and a half million of people, and it was fitting that when at last they secured their independence, and' the new American nation was born, Americans should turn to the one man who had made it possible for them to achieve national success and greatness. They immortalized him by naming their capital after him. When I speak of " Anzac," however, and refer to it as the appropriate name for the Federal Capital, I would urge that it has a wider significance than "Washington," because it represents, not the struggle for freedom by the people of one country only, but the effort put forward by our sons at the Dardanelles for the freedom of all the nations at present associated with the Allies' cause. 
I am aware of that, but I hope the honorable senator does not object to it on that account. The accidental grouping of the letters, to my mind, will always stimulate .thought, and in the future be an incentive for inquirers to ask something about it. When the Americans called their capital " Washington," they had in mind the thought which, I hope, will be in the minds of every honorable senator when they exchange the word " Canberra " for " Anzac." 
The word, as I have already indicated, has a much wider significance than " Washington," because it stands for the effort made by Australians and New Zealanders on behalf of the liberties of thos© civilized nations fighting for the cause of the Allies, whereas " Washington " indicates only the name of a man who led the people of his country in a successful fight for freedom. The word " Anzac " applies not to a military leader, as does the name of the Capital of the United States of America, but to the first draft made on the manhood of Australia and New Zealand in the fight, on a foreign battle-field, for the freedom of civilization. 
I am assuming from the interjections that there is not a friendly feeling towards the change of name, and I would point out that " Canberra," for all practical purposes, might just as well be called  "Potberra"  or "  Billyberra."  I may remark also that an ingenious contributor to the press has suggested that in the early days when the aboriginals had dealings with the first settlers, they had then, as now, a taste for alcohol, and when they came down to the settlers' camp, they asked, " Got em can, got em beer?" Prom that time on, according to the press correspondent I have referred to, the site of the Capital City was called " Canberra." That is just as likely to be the origin of the name as any other, and 
I ask  Senator Blakey  is there any reason why that name should stand for all time just because it was selected in no particularly ingenuous way, meaning nothing and signifying nothing ? Is it not our duty, if we can, to place on record, in the manner I suggest, those brave deeds done on the shores of Gallipoli by Australia's sons ? If we wish to erect an imperishable monument to their memory, we can best do so by giving to the Federal Capital a name that will for all time call up a mental picture of those gallant exploits. 
I hope so. 
It is right that we should record our due appreciation of the efforts of our men. We have all read accounts by eye-witnesses of the landing of the Third Brigade. That brigade, whose daring.has not been equalled in the annals of military history, embraced men from all over Australia. Then, after the landing came the events at Lonesome Pine. We have been told that, in that engagement, when the mules at length arrived with water for the men in the trenches, the soldiers, so thirsty were they, sprang out of the trenches on to the leadswept parapet, and with their tongues sucked the moisture from the water bags on the mules' backs. Those brave fellows were down to a pint of water, under that sub-tropical sun, before they made that historic charge. Then what is to be said of the charge of the Light Horse Brigade, which has been well described as the greatest feat ever performed on Turkish soil, not excepting even thos© exploits of the Hellenic armies in the early days of history in that part of the world ? Even those classic exploits, so we have been informed, did not excel in bravery the charge made by the Light Horse Brigade on the slopes of Gallipoli. This great event stands out by itself as showing what could be done and what was done by Australians when they were called upon. All those incidents go to make up the magnificent effort made by Australians at the Dardanelles. 
I believe I am correct in saying that every soldier who yielded his life at Anzac was perfectly satisfied to do so, and if it were given to him again, he would gladly yield that precious inheritance in defence of the cause that took them from Australia. It has not always been so with other people. My own countryman and patriot, Patrick Sarsfield, who, after he had fought the battles of his country, and had compelled the British forces of the day to come to terms with him - terms which were afterwards broken - met  Ms fate  subsequently on the battle-fields of Europe. "When his life blood was. oozing away, he dipped his fingers in it and said, " Oh, that this were for Ireland !" The Australian soldiers dying on the battlefields of Gallipoli did not have such discomforting thoughts. They were willing to do a dozen times over what they had done in the same cause. When we find the exploits of our people at the Dardanelles recorded by eye-witnesses in terms that confer immortal honour upon our men, surely it is our duty to take some action to perpetuate their memory! " Canberra " can remain. Yes ; but what does it signify? Put the word "Anzac" there and what would it signify? It would signify for all time the exploits of our soldiers on a foreign field in the fight of freedom and civilization, and would keep fresh in the people's memory the incidents connected with that great struggle in the Dardanelles. When, in the future, a child asks its mother what the word " Anzac " means, she will be able to reply, assuming we adopt the name for our Capital city: "'Anzac' means the going out from this country of some 50,000 of our best manhood to fight, against great odds, the battle of freedom and civilization on a battlefield in an alien land. Eye-witnesses declared that their exploits were never equalled in military history. Thousands of them lie to-day in nameless graves, but the Federal Parliament thought fit to perpetuate their memory  by giving the name " Anzac ' to the Federal Capital, so that it might remain for all time as an imperishable monument to their bravery." That is what an Australian mother will be able to say to her child in the years to come if we adopt this motion. 
Shall we be able to draw such an inspiration from the word "Canberra"? 
Certainly not, because "Canberra" has no history and no pedigree, so far as literary research takes us. It has nothing to recommend it except that it is a sweetsounding name - a mere collection of alphabetical characters with an agreeable phonetic effect. It expresses nothing, leads to nowhere, and fails to kindle any pride or inspiration as is the case with 1 ' Anzac. ' ' " Anzac " grips the mind with the significance of what it stands for, and in the future it will be a stimulation to the young Australian of an inquiring mind to ask what it means. I do not intend to delay the Senate much further, because I feel that this motion may be debated, perhaps lengthily, although' I would rather see a decision come to today. I wish, however, to point out that if we apply the name " Anzac " to the Federal Capital we will be doing honour to our sister Dominion in the Southern seas, and will link that Dominion with the Commonwealth more closely than could otherwise be done. It is a compliment that has been justly earned by New Zealanders in association with Australians at the Dardanelles. I do not claim originality for the word. There is nothing new in it. I have seen references to it in the press, both here and in Western Australia, and before the debate closes I shall be pleased to give the origin of the name. In submitting this motion I do, in all sincerity, ask the Senate to make the change. I want the word adopted, not for the sake of changing the name of the Capital, but so that it may stand as an evidence of our gratitude to those men who sacrificed their lives in the fight for freedom. I want also to give to our Federal Capital and Territory a name that will appeal to the imagination, the national pride and instincts of the people, and be a stimulus to our countrymen in the future to do similar acts of bravery. Above all, I want it to be a standing appeal to the men who will be sent to " Anzac," there to frame the laws for the government of this country, to be  Anzacian  in name as well as in deed, by enacting laws that will insure the true welfare, complete and widespread, of the people of this country. I hope the motion will have the hearty approval of the Senate. I ask honorable senators to cast aside the thought that because "Canberra," as a name for the Federal Capital, was adopted over three years ago, no change should be made now. There is nothing in " Canberra," as a word, to justify ite perpetuation. I repeat that it means nothing, has no father and no pedigree. If, on the other hand, " Anzac " be adopted as the name of our Capital city, it will, for all time - until the book of fate is sealed up, and the story of human destiny is fully written - stand for the glory and gallantry of the exploits of Australian and New Zealand soldiers on the slopes of Gallipoli. 
The Government regret that they are not able to agree with  Senator Lynch  as to either the necessity or the desirability of the change which he proposes. It is true that " Canberra " has no great historical significance. Its generally accepted meaning is "meeting place." So far as I have been able to ascertain, it is not a native name, but it has been associated with the district for a considerable time.  Senator Lynch  was very eloquent in pleading for a name distinctively Australian, which would appeal to the minds of the people, but the first weakness of that suggested by him isi that it does not belong exclusively to us, and that it would be rather selfish and unfair of us to claim an absolute monopoly in it. We are as proud of those who fought with the Australians at Anzac as we are of our own boys, because if they were not Australians, they were, at all events, Australasians, but the fact remains that the New Zealanders have a distinct share in the name. Other events may happen later in which Australians alone will take part, and for which we can claim a name distinctively our own. I do not say that any deeds can be done in the future superior to those achieved at Anzac, because I do. not believe that to be possible; but it should be remembered that, while other places have been named after great leaders and great warriors, it is impossible to transfer the deed by transferring the name, and so long as the bones of Australians and New Zealanders lie buried at Anzac, Anzac will be in Gallipoli, in spite of any attempt to transfer the name to Australia. Anzac also should not be used as the name of our Federal Capital, because it will be always associated with the arms and deeds of Australians; and no matter how many centuries  have rolled by, if, in the future, Australians are forced to engage in warfare again - and I hope they will not - every soldier in our Armies will strive to reach the standard set by the Australian lads at Anzac in 1915. So that, for the present at all events, we- should leave that place enshrined in the memories of the people. The fact that Australians so distinguished themselves as to write pages of history on Gallipoli is no sound reason for changing the name of the Federal Capital of Australia. If the war took a turn in favour of the Allies, as we all hope it will, and it fell to the glorious good fortune of our troops to be the first to enter Berlin, that would be no argument for giving the name of Berlin to our Capital. This is a matter about which we must be very careful. The war has not yet concluded, and although we do not hope to excel the glorious deeds of Anzac, we believe that our soldiers will still make for themselves, in other parts of Europe, a reputation worthy to stand side by side with that historic achievement. We are indebted to  Senator Lynch  for his review of the titles of the world's capitals, but all that is really beside the question. We fixed Canberra as the Capital after debates extending over a number of years, and, personally, I should not like to see a division taken on a motion of this sort. No member of this Chamber, however undesirable he thinks the change proposed by the honorable senator to be, would care to have his name recorded as voting against any proposal to perpetuate the memory of our heroes, of whom we are all so proud. I would, therefore, suggest that the honorable senator should withdraw the motion for the present. Opportunities will occur later to discuss even a better name, and if the honorable senator will not withdraw the proposal I trust that he will at least postpone it. I indorse all that he said with regard to Anzac, and assure him that the Government share the pride which the people of Australia take in that name, but we regret that we are not able to agree to the proposal to change the present title of the new Capital. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Ready)  adjourned. 
Senate adjourned at 4.7 p.m. 
I ask the Act  ing Prime Minister if he has seen the statement in this morning's  Argus  about the price of meat in Perth and other parts of Western Australia, and also the statement of the State Minister of Agriculture, and whether something cannot be done to protect the people ? Is it the intention of the Federal Government to exercise their powers, if any, to protect the people from the ever-increasing toll levied on them by the food exploiters of Australia ? 
The matter has come under the notice of the Government. The advance in the price of meat, so far as Perth is concerned, is caused by the difficulty of getting cattle down from the north-west rather than by any scarcity of cattle. 
No. He has represented to this Government that they have plenty of cattle in the north-west, but that they cannot get them down to Perth, and arrangements have been made, as the result of an agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the Western Australian Government, to enable those cattle to be brought down. The question of fixing prices is one that is now engaging the consideration of the Commonwealth Government. I will not say more, at present, than that the Government are favorable to taking steps to prevent any undue increase in the price of foodstuffs, . and are considering how best that can be done. 
Will the Government take steps to prevent soldiers from interrupting and disbanding meetings held by peaceful citizens on the Yarra Bank? 
-Steps have already been taken to that end. The Provostmarshal has been instructed to arrest any soldier in uniform interfering with any meeting in any way. 
Instructions have been issued for over a month, and have been emphasized as the result of further disturbances. 
Can the Minister of Defence inform the Senate whether the Australian troops now servingin France have been supplied with steel helmets similar to those used by the British and French forces in that country ? 
Is it convenient for the Acting Prime Minister to make a statement as to the business he contemplates asking this Senate to deal with? 
I understand that arrangements are being made in another place to sit late to-night and to-morrow, in an endeavour to finish the business of both Houses by Tuesday next. Matters, however, have not developed sufficiently to enable me to say anything more just now. The Government propose, after the present business has been disposed of, to ask the Senate to assemble again today at half-past 3 o'clock, when it is hoped we may be in a position to fix the time to which we shall adjourn. At present, it seems possible that we shall have to ask honorable senators to meet again on Monday or Tuesday of next week, as it is believed the Appropriation Bill will then have been received from another place, as well as two other measures, including the War Pensions Bill. We have had a pretty full business-paper before the Senate, and the measures we have passed are now waiting to be dealt with by the other House. The measures to come from the House of Representatives are money Bills, which the Constitution requires shall be introduced in that Chamber. At a later hour in the day we hope to be able to indicate definitely what arrangements have been agreed to. 
-Can the Acting Prime Minister inform the Senate ifthe members of the Inter-State Commission are still drawing their salaries, and, if so, what are the duties they are performing ? 
The members of the Inter-State Commission are, of course, drawing their salaries, because these are provided for by the Act under which they hold their appointments. I can assure the Senate that each member of that Commission is fully occupied, if not with the work of the Commission, in assisting the Government in the administration of war legislation. For instance,  Mr. Piddington  is reporting to the Government on the question of the trade withthe Pacific Islands;  Mr. Swinburne  is assisting the Treasury in dealing with questions arising out of the flotation of companies and companies legislation generally; and  Mr. Lockyer  is assisting the Defence Department. He has complete control of the canteens throughout Australia. 
Yes;  Mr. Lockyer  as performing this work during the six months' vacation to whichhe is entitled under the Public Service Act. 
I ask  Senator Russell  if he has yet received from  Mr. Catts,  the  Chairman  of the Prices Adjustment Board, the representations made to that Board by a delegation of Tasmanian farmers representing Tasmanian producers, which waited on the Board at Launceston recently with reference to the question of fixing the price of wheat in Tasmania. If he has not yet received those representations from  Mr. Catts,  will the Minister consider the advisability of fixing the price of wheat in that State. 
So far as I know, there is no power under the existing regulations to fix the price of wheat. I have received no report from the Board, but if it should come to hand it will be taken into consideration by the Government. 
I have received from  Senator Lynch  the following letter: - 
.- I move- 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until 10 a.m. to-morrow. 
I move the motion with a two-fold purpose. In the first place, I move it to insure that faith be kept with a promise given by the Government, by the banks, or by both, to the wheat-growers of this country that an extra 6d. per bushel upon the harvest would be made available to them. This subject has been before the Senate on several occasions, and I am bringing it again under notice by means of the ad journment motion for the purpose of causing those who are responsible for the operation of the wheat scheme to move at once in the direction of paying a further instalment to our wheat-growers. I am not moving the motion in any spirit of antagonism to the Government at all. I acknowledge that but for the action taken by the Federal Government in conjunction with the Governments of the States the wheat-growers throughout Australia would not be in as good a position as they are in today; but I urge upon the Government that, as the producers are passing through a very crucial time just now, this extra payment should be made at once. The instalment, small though it seems, is urgently required by the farmers. I have heard it said in this chamber, and elsewhere, that the farmers have done very well out of this scheme; but I would point out that they have " delivered the goods." According to the statement made by the Minister, the farmers have delivered about 160,000,000 bushels of wheat to the Government or their agents, and the only payment made to date represents about 50 per cent. of its value. 
For a harvest of 160,000,000 bushels, an extra 6d. would represent about £4,000,000. I repeat that this payment is urgently needed if the people who are engaged in this particular industry are to carry on their operations to the fullest extent. Moreover, the promise was virtually made that they were to receive this extra 6d. at an early date, and if it is withheld there will be a corresponding reduction in employment when the war is over, or even during its progress. The Government should do something to provide the money in order that every available acre may go under cultivation. I know that thousands of farmers at present are held up for want of money to employ labour, to meet their obligations, and to put a larger area under cultivation. 
I am not concerned with that aspect of the matter at all. I realize that if I depended on the farmers' vote I would not be standing where I am to-day ; but that does not blind me to the fact that the prosperity of this country depends upon the prosperity of the farmer. 
Yes, I hope I do; and I have no wish to say anything about the farmer leaning on the Government in a matter of this sort. I take it that the Government when they entered into the wheat scheme were not acting in an altruistic spirit, but they felt that the farmer was entitled to consideration in a difficult situation. The scheme was a bargain, and a good bargain between society on the one hand and a section of producers, known as the farmers, on the other. The Government to-day, I presume, have not wanted to help the farmers because of their particular political belief, and for my part, if I considered only the political leanings of farmers, it might be presumed I would not be inclined to help them, because they have not helped me into this position. But in this matter, as in all others of primary importance, I have placed political considerations on one side, and I have in view the industrial  advancement and progress of this country. We are depending in a large measure upon the prosperity of our primary producers, and I urge that this extra payment be made to the wheat farmers without delay. 
They have delivered the wheat, and have received for it something in the neighbourhood of 2s. 6d. per bushel, although, according to the f.o.b. price ruling in London to-day, it is worth 5s. 3d., so that they have received a little less than half of its market value. In other words, the farmers are on half time, or are receiving only half their wages for the work they have done in making the soil of this country productive. I emphasize that this payment of 6d. needs to be made now if we are to look for an increase in the area being put under cultivation. I do not need to repeat that the wheat farmers are at a considerable disadvantage, because, unlike other primary producers of this country, they derive no benefit from any form of protection. The man engaged in growing sugar, fruit, or other primary products is given protection through the Customs. By the way, I should like to remind  Senator 
Ferricks, who recently said that the farmers to-day are taking no risks, that while it is quite true that the Queensland farmers take no risks, because they are paid every penny for what they produce, that, cannot be said of the farmers engaged in producing wheat. 
It is well to remember that the wheat farmers of Australia do have to take risks. Unlike the sugar farmers, they are not only without any protection/ but are up against the competition of the cheapest labour in the world. The Queensland sugar farmers enjoy the friendly shelter of a protective Tariff and special legislation. They take no risks in Queensland. But the wheat producers are up against the competition of the cheapest of European labour, of the coolie on the slopes of the Himalayas, of the Egyptian fellaheen - who bales water for his crops from the Nile in a leather bucket - and of every other form of cheap labour in every part of the world, and are holding their own. Yet we are told that the farmers to-day are taking no risks. The wheat farmers of Australia are employing more labour, and taking more risks, than is any other primary producer. 
I will concede to the honorable senator that some forward sales were made at 2s. 9d. per bushel. Eight down the centuries great trouble has arisen because of the general disposition of men to look  upon  things only from their own stand-point, and to take no thought of how the interests of others that require to be equally safeguarded are affected. The position of the wheat farmer to-day is such that, unless the Government and the banks take the action I advise, a considerable area throughout Australia will be allowed to remain fallow and unproductive. 
In the Old Country and here, during the progress of the war, we have been told that it is a wise policy to refrain from buying anything but the bare necessaries of life, and it is equally wise to sell all the things we can in order to increase our resources. We cannot sell what we do not produce, and the policy I have referred to marks the urgency of the need for the advancement of this extra 6d. per bushel in order that our producers may be encouraged to extract more wealth from the soil of Australia that we may have all the more to sell. By that means a wider field of employment will be opened during the progress of the war and after its close. After all, is there any risk attached to this business of the wheat pool  1  I do not know what is exactly the connexion between the Commonwealth and the banks, as I have not been fully informed concerning it. 
I think I am entitled to assume that the Commonwealth Government are guaranteeing the payment of whatever advances may be made by the banks. If that be so, where is the risk, especially in view of the fact that the goods have been delivered in good order? They are realizable, and could be sold to-morrow in the consuming centres of the world at their face value if shipping could be found for them. When the goods are there and only half paid for, it is not too much to ask that this further instalment, amounting to about £4,000,000, should be paid to the wheat producers at this particularly crucial time. I feel very strongly on this matter because of my knowledge of the men who have gone out into the interior to grow wheat, have there battled with insuperable odds, and have been my friends in the past. 
A telegram appeared in the press in Western Australia to the effect that  Senator Russell,  representing the Commonwealth Government on the Wheat Board, went to Sydney for the purpose of conferring with the financial authorities there with a view to seeing whether another 6d. per bushel could not be given. A further telegram appeared stating that the extra 6d. per bushel had already been paid in the State of Victoria. When such information appeared in the press, it naturally created -a lively anticipation that the extra 6d. per bushel would be forthcoming. 
It is not necessary that I should tell the honorable senator that I do not. 
The statement was made in the press in Western Australia that the' Minister visited Sydney in order to ascertain what might be done to secure the advance of the extra 6d. per bushel, and there was, further, a positive statement that the 6d. was being paid in the State of Victoria. 
I do not know, but that is what appeared in the Western Australian press, and the wheat farmers have been justified in believing that the extra 6d. was going to be paid. If the Government propose to take any step in that direction, they should take it now. They must have had in mind the payment of the extra 6d., or otherwise the Assistant Minister would not have gone to Sydney to confer with the financial authorities there to see if the advance could be made. I urge that the advance should be made on the grounds I have already stated. 
The Commonwealth Government have pledged the security of the country to the extent of £12,000,000, but, at 5s. per bushel, they have the goods representing a value of £40,000,000, less the sales effected. They have a sufficient margin of security in the wheat delivered to warrant them in saying to the banks, " Pay this money and we shall increase our guarantee to you to the extent of the extra 6d. per bushel, which is, roughly, £4,000,000." We want wheat production to prosper, we want our idle areas to be brought under cultivation, and' we want work for our people. It is especially desirable that they should be induced to leave the crowded centres of population, to leave the " festering sores of civilization," as the big cities have been so well described by Thomas Jefferson. Unless the extra 6d. is given to-day it might as well be kept back for the next twelve months, so far as any increased production in the next twelve months is concerned. There is not an hour to spare. 
If the advance is made now, it will be the means of getting an increased area under wheat, and of providing much needed employment for our people. It is unnecessary that I should labour the subject, because I feel that it must appeal to every member of the Senate. As I have my neck in the collar, Iknow exactly where the pinch comes, and I speak feelingly because of my knowledge of the conditions in my own particular locality and of the producers of other places with whom I have come in contact. I esteem and appreciate most highly the action of the State Governments in dealing with this matter, but I remind honorable senators that, up to date, the Commonwealth Government have lost no money in connexion with the wheat pool. They have simply pledged the credit, good faith, and reputation of the people of Australia as security for the money' advanced by the banks, and what better securitycould they have? The Commonwealth Governmenthave lost nothing, and will lose nothing by making the further advance asked for, and they will have the consoling reflection that it will be the means of having idle lands brought under cultivation to a greater degree than will be possible if the advance is not made. If they do not make a move now, they need not move for another twelve months or two years. Having put their hand to the plough, and decided that it is a wise course to pledge the public credit of the country for the advances made, they can go this further step with safety, and see that the extra 6d. per bushel is paid. 
Honorable senators know how much is dependent on the prosperity of the country. We have heard something about the coal industry being jeopardized, but let me remind honorable senators that the coal remains in the earth, and the value of our coal deposits is not reduced by a single penny, but when a season is allowed to pass without getting the utmost wheat yield from the ground the loss involved can never be recovered. You might as well try to drive the mill with the water that has passed. Whilst the Commonwealth Government have done well, I do not know that they have done more than has been done by the State Governments. Western Australia, which has a population of scarcely 400,000, or less than a third-rate town in Eng land, came forward with actual cash for the support of those engagedin primary production in the State to the extent of nearly £1,000,000. They gave seed, feed, groceries of all kinds, and machinery, and everything else throughout the wide range of the farmers' requirements. 
What intolerable nonsense ! 
I presume that they got it from loan money, but that is not what the Commonwealth Government have done. 
At all events, they showed their willingness to tap the resources of loan funds for the assistance of the primary producer. 
I am referring to something that is apart from what the Commonwealth Government did. In. 1914 my brother and I planted 700 acres, and did not get as much crop as you could lift on a pencil. Thousands of others were in the same position, but the Labour Government of the State came forward, and said, "We must give assistance to these men and keep them on the land."' Their resolve was carried out to the letter, and they gave the utmost assistance in the way I have explained. They spent about £1,000,000 in this way, and with the happiest results. We had a good season this year, and land that had been bare and barren produced last year an average yield of between 13 and 14 bushels per acre. So far as the information given us by the Assistant Minister is concerned, the Commonwealth Government, in connexion with the wheat pool, have not yet expended a brass farthing. I have mentioned what the Western Australian Government have done, and I believe that the Governments of other States have done as well. 
Honorable senators have travelled a good deal in Australia, and have not reached the .positions they now occupy without knowing something of the risks, hardships, and discomforts attending pioneering occupations in Australia. They know what the settler has had to do, and that many of them, with broken hearts and broken bodies, have lilting on in order to make the patch of land they call their own fertile and productive in their last endeavour. These men can be counted, not by the hundred, but by the thousand in Australia. It is for the sake of this courageous and brave «lenient in our population - the men who leave the cities behind them to make the inland wastes of the country habitable and bountiful - that I am raising my voice on the present occasion. I want action to be taken on their behalf, and I want it to be taken now. If these men are to be given help, it must be given at this vital time. Help given at the right time may mean all the difference between adversity and prosperity, between a grinding struggle and tolerable success. 
What the banks have done in this matter deserves some consideration. I appreciate very highly what the Commonwealth Bank has done. It has taken on a giant's share in the task of financing the wheat scheme. The work it has done is a monumental tribute to the party now occupying the Treasury benches in bringing it into existence. Have the other banks done likewise? 
I understand that that is so, but other banks could be named that have not stood up to their work in this matter. We have often heard that the banks represent a very material factor in developing the resources of the country, but what has happened in connexion with the wheat scheme shows that some of them are not entitled to make that claim. 
I do not see why they should. The cashing of one of these certificates is a very safe proposition for any bank . It would be like buying a gold brick. Some of the banks need to take care if they are not prepared to do something in connexion with this matter. I recognise the action of the banks that have ren dered assistance, because they have taken their part without regarding the scheme as a purely dividend-producing proposal, but from the better motive of desiring to assist in the development of the resources of the country and in keeping the people engaged in primary production. If the banks do not come forward this time, the Commonwealth Government have the power to see that they are amenable to reason, and do something to justify their claim to be an indispensable factor in developing the resources of Australia. 
Then it must depend on the Government? 
If so, my remarks will be directed just as unmercifully towards the Government. Perhaps I should be cautious, seeing that information comes from a source which, in a purely political sense, requires very close scrutiny. It reminds me of the story that when Daniel 0' Connell was  praised  by the London  Times  he always made it a practice to examine his conscience. 
The honorable senator has exceeded the time-limit allowed him under the standing order. 
 Senator Lynch  has made a most pathetic appeal on behalf of the farmers, but I know no member of the Wheat Board 5 or of the Commonwealth Government, who are jointly operating the scheme, that does not feel just as much sympathy for the farmers as he does. 
I believe a little misunderstanding has been caused through some irresponsible person making a statement in the press that 6d. would be paid, because, so far as I know, no person has been authorized to make a definite announcement to the farmers that they were to get an additional 6d. 
It has been contradicted several times to my knowledge. We all desire to pay the 6d., and we believe the security is good enough, but we have to get the 6d. before we can pay it. 
When the scheme originated, it was anticipated that there would be a total of about 2,500,000 tons to export, but, owing to the prolific season, we find now that we have just on 3,750,000 tons to get away. The farmers, who are supposed to be antisocialistic, have been just about as keen to get their wheat on the stations and receive their 3s. as any one could possibly imagine. The Wheat Board, estimating that there would be a normal yield - and none of us anticipated the grand success that we did have last year - thought they would require about £7,000,000 of overdraft. 
I believe, in Western Australia, owing to a mistake in the administration, the farmers have received 3d. more than in any other State. That matter will be re-adjusted later, but we will not take the 3d. back. 
It is 3s. on the average, less the expense of getting the wheat to a port, making the payment, roughly speaking, 2s. 6d. a bushel net all round as near as we can get it. At the time we estimated that an overdraft of £7,000,000 would be required it was impossible to get an accurate estimate of the amount of wheat being produced. Every week the State statisticians were putting the probable crop up by anything from 5 to 10 million bushels, until we were faced with the record harvest of Australia. Banks, like other business institutions, have to be run on business lines, and would require reasonable notice if within the course of a month they were asked to increase an overdraft from £7,000,000 to nearly £15,000,000, even when there was Government security behind it. As a matter of fact, we just reached £13,000,000, and at one time it was thought that we should go as high as £15,000,000. The present overdraft is £11,237,000. The banks were naturally a little fidgety at the suddenness of the jump, but in spite of this, they met us, on the whole, fairly and well. The Commonwealth Government had no hesitation in saying that they would meet the wheat on the station, and that not a bushel would be refused, nor was there ever any doubt about the farmer getting 3s. gross or 2s. 6d.. net. 
We made it clear that none would be stopped, but it became purely a commercial transaction to arrange for the necessary amount when these various difficulties presented themselves. Having reduced the overdraft by £2,000,000- through sales, would it be fair to step in. to-morrow and increase it by £4,000,000, for that is the amount which the extra. 6d. would represent? It would practically re-open negotiations, although the» banks are not unsympathetic. 
No, we agreed to&gt; go on until we finished. We had no definite sum fixed at the finish, for the reason I have stated, but the Board, although they had to meet great difficultiesin the matter, were all delighted to seethe wheat keep coming in. The farmerhas done remarkably well this year, but. the difficulty arises out of what happened' the year before. We have not got two seasons' wheat crops or two seasons'" security; we have only the one. If the) banks could carry the farmers as they did the year before, it would be a different matter, but nearly all the money advanced by the Board has gone in thereduction of overdrafts, either to the State Governments or to the banks, and" the banks are therefore really in a betterposition to-day to do for the farmer what they did for him twelve months ago.. Why should they not do so if the security is so good collectively as  Senator Lynch,  points out ? Surely the security, combined with the character of the farmer, is betterthan it waa then. The banking figures show that the wheat scheme has done verylittle injury to the banks. In fact, in some cases, where it has simply been a transfer from the farmer to the Government, the banks, instead of having only the security of the individual farmer, who  may collapse at any time, have now the security of the Government behind the loan. In most cases more than half the money has simply been used as a transferin the reduction of the farmers' overdraft. I am sure that if  Senator Lynch,  who is a practical farmer, had been offered* 6s. a bushel at the start of the year for half the crop that he eventually got, he. would have thought himself in heaven, so  far as this year was concerned. I knowany number of farmers in this State who, were willing and anxious to sell their- wheat for 3s. a bushel and get out altogether. In fact, we know of contracts that were made for less.  Senator Lynch'  s suggestion, that the Wheat Board or the Government were in any way averse to the farmers, is not well founded, and as' to his reference to what the States have done, I doubt whether the States would have been able to do it this year. At all events, the banks, which had financed these institutions in the past, were most anxious that the Commonwealth should take the whole pool in the event of anything happening. I am glad to say that this is only a nominal responsibility, because, in the first place, the States will meet any failure, which we do not anticipate, and, failing the States, the Commonwealth then comes in with a full guarantee to meet the loss. At the same- time, although our position is merely a nominal one, the power and security of the Commonwealth behind the scheme has enabled it to be the big success it is to-day. Whether the farmers are Socialists or anti-Socialists, it is a remarkable thing that whenever it is a case of touching the Government on the commercial side, everybody is most anxious to get into the deal. The States and the Commonwealth collectively have to see that we do not lose any money in managing the business of other people. The farmer, especially at country meetings, is very fond of criticising the lack of good management on the part of Governments generally, and I, for one, am not going to jeopardize my reputation by giving way to what, after all, may be only a clamour. 
If they are, and I believe they are, there is no reason why the private banks could not do the business. The States also could have helped the farmers to a great extent by  suspending  any payments due to themselves until the final payment was made for the wheat; but in some cases they have taken the debt due to them out of the first payment. That, of course, is purely their business; but there are lots of other ways of carrying on without making a bad transaction with the wheat pool. I recognise that this is the critical period, and that if we can grant any money it should be granted. . We can sell all the wheat we can get shipped abroad, so that there is no difficulty on that point, but the trouble is to get the shipping. It may be possible at an early date to an nounce definitely when an advance will be made, not necessarily paying the money over at once, but giving a clear intimation to farmers, traders, and bankers that it will be paid on a certain date. 
I hope to get a meeting of the Board at 10 o'clock tomorrow morning to see what can be done. 
I have been through the wheat districts, and can assure honorable senators that the farmers are seeding well. There is no substance in the statement that the farmers are hanging back from putting in their crops. Crops are going in well all over Australia, wherever the conditions are suitable, and we as' a Government will do anything we can to help the farmers in that direction. We have sold now overseas just about 1,000,000 tons, which we think is a very good result. That leaves a balance of about 2,500,000 tons to be handled yet. 
Either shipped or in course of shipping, but definitely dealt with so far as we are concerned. The only complaint I might have against the members of the Wheat Board is that the Ministers of Agriculture of the different States can see only the interests of the farmer. If the additional 6d. can be paid to the farmer, it will be a glorious personal triumph to every one of those Ministers, and  Senator Lynch  can rest assured that the farmer does not lack sympathizers on the Board. All the representations made during this debate will be brought under the notice of the Board to-morrow, and I assure the Senate that the Board will use its best endeavours to meet the farmers' requests. Referring to the error in administration that occurred in Western Australia, if an additional advance of 6d. is made in that State, the matter will be adjusted by the farmers there receiving only 3d. 
It is inadvisable to discuss prices. An indiscreet utterance by me might prejudice the whole of the operation, in which we have had the valuable assistance of some of the most competent business men in Australia. 
The motion submitted by  Senator Lynch  conforms both to the spirit and letter of the standing order with regard to urgency, as the matter is undoubtedly urgent. In an ordinary year it would have been too late, but, as the present season is late, seeding can be done in a good many of the farming districts for the next six weeks or two months at the most. The question is : Will the Government be safe financially in granting the additional advance, or is it under any implied obligation to do so ? I asked  Senator Lynch,  by interjection, for the grounds on which he asserted that it was understood that the extra 6d. would be paid, and the Minister's assurance that the unauthorized newspaper report which gave rise to the belief was contradicted by the authorities must dispose of the contention that there was some implied obligation on the part of the Government. On the other aspect, it is beyond argument that the Federal and State Governments, the Wheat Pool, and the members of this Chamber, would be only too glad, if they could, to give the farmers, or anybody else, every possible penny, especially when, as in this case, the Government have taken the wheat, leaving the farmer no option to dispose of it elsewhere. My difficulty is to ascertain what is the margin of safety on which the Wheat Board is working.  Senator Lynch  said there was norisk, but there must be a risk about a sporting chance. If the war ended in the next few months, and the Dardanelles were opened, what price would we realize for our wheat? If it does not end for the next twelve or eighteen months, what will be the value of this season's crop then, seeing that we shall have another harvest on us before this one can be shipped, and that harvest may be as bountiful as the last? 
Those, then, are big elements of risk which the Wheat Board cannot afford to ignore. They and the Government would be lacking in a sense of public duty if they accepted  Senator 
Lynch's statement that there is absolutely no risk. 

Unless history is falsified on this occasion, when this war ceases in Europe, there will be a considerable diminution in the purchasing power of the masses, which will mean that the price of commodities will fall. Only an optimist can declare that no matter whether the war continues or ends, our wheat will be worth 3s. 6d. I hope it is. 
I quite realize that the farmer has received only about 2s. 6d., but that does not alter the fact that, to the Wheat Board and the Government, a strong element of risk presents itself. If the Board could determine that there was a fair margin of value on the wheat, it might serve a high national purpose if it were to recommend an increase in the advance already made. The Minister appeared to indorse the view taken by  Senator Lynch,  that there was no risk about the ultimate value of the wheat, but that the difficulty seemed to be rather one of finance. If in the end the wheat will be worth more than 3s. 6d., I see no difficulty in financing the Board to make the extra advance. Is it more - important that we should vote money to assist primary production, or expend it on bricks and mortar  1  If the making of an advance is a matter of financial difficulty with the Government, I suggest for the consideration of the Ministry that if the Board does recommend a further payment, the Government might review its expenditure on public works with the object of seeing whether or not something could be done to make available the money necessary for this further advance to farmers. The payment of this money would not diminish the trouble of employment; on the contrary, the employment given would be more continuous than employment resulting from expenditure on the erection of public buildings, which terminates the moment the buildings are completed. If there is merely a financial difficulty the 
Government might bear in mind the possibility of providing some measure of relief to the producers by a careful revision of the public works expenditure. 
 Senator Lynch  is to be commended for having brought this matter before the Senate, and for the straightforward manner in which he has discussed the motion, which, as he pointed out, implies no blame of the Commonwealth Government, but will confer a considerable benefit upon the producers of Australia if effect can be given to its terms. I consider that when a' citizen of Australia obtains a seat in this Senate he becomes a representative of every section of the community, and should not, and, indeed, does not, know one interest to the exclusion of any other. I indorse what  Senator Lynch  has said about the condition of the wheat-growing industry. The farmer has just as much right to take steps to safeguard his interests as any other class in our community. We know, however, that when this wheat pool was suggested, it was subjected to very severe criticism by the supposed friends of the farmers. 
Yes; it was criticised by the farmers themselves, and by their representatives in the different Parliaments of Australia. It is reasonable to suppose, also, that some of these gentlemen have been criticising it for political purposes. They have been endeavouring to discount the scheme because it was suggested by a Labour Government in the Commonwealth, and by the various Labour Governments of the States. As a supporter of the Government, and a believer in the scheme, I am quite satisfied that many of its critics will ultimately have to find some excuse for their condemnation of it. Although the ' idea of the wheat pool is ' new, it is by no means new for State Governments to assist farmers.  Senator Lynch  has outlined what the Government of Western Australia have been doing, and I may remark that the Government of South Australia have, for many years, been assisting the farmers, the orchardists, the squatters, and every other section of primary producers in that State. Much assistance has been given to them. They have been provided with seed wheat, with wire netting to combat the vermin ; they have had provided for them an export depot, through which they can export any of their products, and this year, because there happened to be a glut in the apple market, the Government constituted themselves a medium of exchange for the disposal of the apple crop, with the result that any person to-day may order a case of apples from the depot, and have it delivered for 4s. 
Very well,  Mr. President.  I will content myself with saying that the State Governments have always shown a practical sympathy with the primary producers, and that there are some special reason's now why the farmer should be further assisted. The season before last, the wheat harvest of Australia was practically a failure. In very many parts of South Australia it was a complete failure, and farmers everywhere got heavily into debt, either with the Government for rates, with the storekeepers for goods, or with the banks for financial assistance. Last year, with an abundant crop, they were justified in expecting to realize as much as possible for the harvest, to clear themselves of their financial difficulties.For that reason the Commonwealth Government came to their assistance, and I am sure that, as the result of this discussion, the Government will feel more confident in extending greater assistance than has been given up to the present.  Senator Lynch  made a strong point of the fact that, unless the farmer gets the extra advance, he will be unable to put in a larger area of land for next season's crop. I do not know whether the farmers of South Australia are putting in a reduced area or not, but I do know that they are talking about it, and we are bound to believe what the farmers themselves say. They say they cannot afford to crop a larger area, and I am sure every one will agree that it would be a calamity if, in the near future, the necessities of the Allies being as great as they are now, we had a very much restricted area under cultivation For that reason it is imperative that something should be done, and employment found as far as possible for our people, for if the farming industry is restricted, as the result of financial difficulties, employment will be reduced to a considerable extent. There is another aspect of this question to which I desire to draw attention. It is time that the Government of the Commonwealth took steps to see that the foodstuffs of the people were conserved by the establishment of storage reservoirs or silos, and in this connexion I am glad to notice that the Government of Victoria have decided to adopt the bulk-handling system, which will have an important bearing on the wheat-growing industry of this country. If the Commonwealth were to store wheat in these silos it could be kept free from vermin, and it would not deteriorate in value, whereas, at present it is exposed to weather and the ravages of vermin, and its value must suffer considerably. If action were taken as I suggest, the industry would be assisted materially, and the Government could have complete control over reserve stocks of our food supplies. I have no doubt whatever that the Government will take what has been said as an indication that the Senate is prepared to support them in taking further risks, if any, that may be involved by giving effect to the motion. And I am sure also the discussion will show the people of Australia that the Parliament of the Commonwealth is in sympathy with' them, and will be prepared to indorse further expenditure if the Government decide to act in the manner indicated. 
I wish to record my objection to the suggestion 'made by  Senator Millen  that the Government, iri order to find money with which to pay the additional instalment to the farmers, should see if the public works policy could be curtailed in some respects. Such a suggestion, in my opinion, ought not to be entertained by the Government for a moment. Probably, if a Government, representative of the other side, were in power, they would be prepared to adopt the suggestion in a very drastic fashion. I maintain that at the present time there is not anything1 approaching a full complement of men employed at either end of the eastwest railway. 
I only desire to say that I am entirely opposed to the suggestion made by  Senator Millen,  to which no objection was raised at the time. 
Very well,  Mr. President,  I shall not do so. I hope, however, that the suggestion made by  Senator Millen  will not be entertained by the Government. Public works were being carried out by the Commonwealth and the various State Labour Governments throughout Australia before any action with regard to the farmers was suggested. The action of those Governments gives the lie direct to the statement that Labour Ministers, either State or Federal, are opposed to the farming interests. The statement as regards the Government of New South Wales is absolutely untrue. I have never yet heard a genuine farmer complain of any action taken by Labour Governments of the States or of the Commonwealth. The men who da complain are the auctioneers, the wheat buyers and sellers, the men who live upon the farmer. I hope that the Government will comply with the request made by  Senator Lynch.  There is no industry of  greater importance to the Commonwealth than is the farming industry, and we should be prepared to give it every possible support. 
. -When last week I made an innocent interjection to the effect that in connexion with the operations of the wheat pool the wheat farmers took no risks, I had no  idea that the aftermath would be the discharge of  Senator Lynch's  artillery this morning. The honorable senator viewed the interjection as one made in a hostile and provincial spirit, but there was nothing of that kind in my mind when making it. As compared with the four wheatproducing States - New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and Western Australia - Queensland produces comparatively little wheat, but her operations in that direction are extending. I repeat now the purport of my interjection that the wheat producers of the four States that have entered into the wheat pool have taken no risk. If any confirmation of the truth of that assertion were needed it has been supplied by the speech made by  Senator Lynch,  and the reply of the Assistant Minister.  Senator Millen  quite properly pointed out that there is an element of risk, and that is borne by the Wheat Board, behind which is the guarantee of the National Government.  Senator Lynch  was willing to concede to me that, prior to the formation of the wheat pool, sales of wheat for forward delivery had been made as low as 2s. 9d. per bushel. What I said, and repeat now, is that, according to press reports, forward sales were made as low as 2s. per bushel. The wheat farmers concerned in the pool to-day have certificates of the face value of 3s. per bushel, which is  50  per cent. more than the price for which they offered to sell their wheat before the formation of the pool. We can well imagine what would have been the position of the wheat producers of Australia had it not been for the action taken by the Federal Government. The proposal for the wheat pool when first announced was received with a howl of protest purporting to emanate from the producers themselves. In some cases it may have done so, but these protests were mainly from the middlemen - the wheat brokers. Their protests appeared in the daily press from time to time, and some persons went so far as to sign their names to statements pointing out what the brokers would lose as a result of the action taken by the Government. They complained that their occupation would be gone, and they considered the proposal altogether unfair. I should like to see the wheat producers given the extra 6d. per bushel which  Senator Lynch  has advocated, and I should like to see them receive the full value of their wheat as soon as possible. The position, in my opinion, was fairly put by the reply given by the Assistant Minister to a question asked by  Senator Lynch  yesterday.  Senator Russell  said that the Wheat Board, at the very earliest opportunity, would make the advance asked for. 
The Wheat Board has undertaken a big responsibility in connexion with this matter. It is a remarkable thing that when the scheme for the pooling of wheat was launched, people who were previously opposed to everything socialistic exhibited a great admiration for the proposal. It must have been palatable, because the lucerne producers came along later and asked for the extension of this measure of Socialism. It was mentioned also as advisable in connexion with the disposal of the abnormal apple crop, and it was advocated by different societies and institutions and in the columns of the press. It would appear that the people who are so fond ofrailing against Socialistic proposals are always prepared to give the Socialistic tiger a loving hug when he comes their way. 
That is so. I am sufficiently broad-minded to endeavour to view the question of wheat production and the disposal of the wheat crop from the Australian stand-point. I realize fully that wheat production is of immense importance to Australia. I have no wish to put State against State or industry against industry, but I think that  Senator Lynch's  references to the sugar industry in Queensland were unwarranted. No representative of Queensland has advanced in this chamber a proposition for the world's price for sugar as  Senator Lynch  has advocated the world's price for wheat. There will be another opportunity to go into this question; but let me assure  Senator Lynch  and the people of the southern States that the last thing about which they have any reason to complain is the price of sugar to the consumer to-day. I believe that in connexion with the establishment of the wheat pool the Labour policy of the control and distribution of primary products has received a  great impetus. When the proposal was first made it was opposed, but as soon as it was successfully launched, and was being successfully carried on, to whom did the daily newspapers here give the credit? Not to the Wheat Board, the Federal Government, or the Assistant Minister representing that Government on the Wheat Board, but to  Mr. Hagelthorn.  We have been told that  Mr. Hagelthorn  did this and that because the wheat pool had been operated successfully. I can only assure  Senator Lynch  that I shall be very pleased when the wheat-growers get the full value of their product. 
In closing the debate, I have to express my thanks for the attitude taken up by the Assistant Minister. I hope that the Commonwealth Government, as influential partners in the Wheat Board, will recognise the gravity of the present situation. I speak from experience gained from personal contact with those engaged in wheat production in this country when I say that unless something is done, and done quickly, to afford them relief, it would be better that it should be withheld indefinitely. I know something of the liabilities of the wheatfarmers, and that in many cases there is nothing to stand between them and those liabilities but the relief to be gained from the advance of the extra 6d. per bushel for which I have pleaded. It is but a small measure of assistance, but at a crucial time it may mean all the difference between success and failure. As the representative of the Government on the Wheat Board,  Senator Russell  will need to press home the point that if something is not quickly done by the Board, they need not bother their heads about the matter as far as giving instant effective relief is concerned. I am pleased with the way in which the matter has been dealt with by honorable senators, as the discussion indicates on their part a live interest in a very vital issue. It has shown that the Senate is concerned about advancing to the utmost the country interests of the Commonwealth. A reference to the records will show that the primary industries of the countryside employ more people than do the secondary industries of Australia. Honorable senators recognise that we have unlimited areas awaiting development, and a congested population in the cities that needs to be transferred to those broad areas tobe given a chance to succeed there. 
With reference to the remarks which have been made by  Senator Ferricks,  I may say that when I looked over the report of my remarks, supplied by the recording angels of this Chamber, I noticed the honorable senator's interjection to the effect that the wheat-farmers had taken no risks. At the expense of being considered egotistical, I compared my lot with that of other honorable members of the Senate who could be mentioned, and who are not engaged in primary industries, and I still adhere to my statement that the wheat-farmers have taken a great deal more risk than have any of the other primary producers of the country. 
They have produced wheat, and supplied it, and it is only half paid for. As I previously said, the wheat-farmers are, in the circumstances, on half-time, whilst the producers in other lines of rural activity have received the full price, and, in some cases, double the usual price, for what they have produced. 
Even with the fixing of prices for butter, those engaged in the dairying industry are getting a little more than the average price ruling for a number of years for their product, whereas the wheat-farmer is not in that position. 
I am not dealing now with the political aspect of the question. 
They benefited by it; but I say they have had to take a risk in view of the fact that up to the present they have been compelled to accept half pay for their labour. If  Senator Ferricks  were compelled to accept half pay for his labours in the past, he would consider that he was taking a big risk. If he would think otherwise, then I have a very imperfect knowledge of him. Whatever credit is given to the primary producers of this country will he amply redeemed later on. I have in mind the case of a prominent business man in the West, who, when discussing with me the position of the farmers in that State, said he had on his books at one time £55,000, which he had out on credit to the farmers. He said that £51,000 of that amount had been recovered. At a subsequent date, in alluding to this particular matter, he said that the remaining £4,000 had been recovered, so that every penny of credit he had extended to the farmers was redeemed. 
No one is absurd enough to expect to recover frsm "a disastrous season in one year. The recovery may be the work of a number of years, and there may be no recovery. The pity is that honorable senators who offer their criticism so freely here do not get their own necks into the collars, so that they might be able to speak from experience, and not from hearsay. I am speaking especially on behalf of men with slender resources, men who have given up- wage earning occupations, and have tried their luck in the far interior under the most trying conditions in primary production. Instead of the lip sympathy that is sometimes lavished upon them, they are looking on the present occasion for practical sympathy. ' Let me again repeat that, although the Commonwealth Government have placed the credit of the country behind the money advanced by the banks, they have not so far lost a brass farthing as the result of what they have done. 
I do not desire that they should; but when we hear so much of what has been done, it is well that honorable senators should be reminded that a cash transaction is a vastly different proposition from a credit transaction. The Government are not entitled, to exhaustive praise in view of other and similar efforts, because, after all, the supreme motive is to advance the interests of the country, and to keep our people in employment on the countryside, and by that means provide a greater opportunity for general employment than could otherwise be provided. I hope that the discussion will be productive of some practical good. I noticed in one of the Melbourne newspapers that a slur was cast upon the debates of the Senate. It was only a Melbourne newspaper anyhow. I only wish that the editor of this paper could get out back into the country and do some useful work. 
I forget the name for the present. 
I was concerned about resenting an attack upon the reputation and importance of the Senate. 
I wish only to refer incidentally to the fact that the Senate can be engaged in very practical debate, notwithstanding the opinion gratuitously given by the Melbourne newspaper to which I refer. The proprietors of these newspapers stand behind them to make money out of them in just the same way as a man stands behind the counter in a huckster's shop to sell his secondhand furniture. I wish that they had a wider experience of Australia than they have. 
A reflection was cast on the character of the debates in the Senate. 
I was expressing the hope that this debate would have some practical result, and was incidentally drawn into making some remarks for which you have quite justifiably called me to order. I am sorry that I transgressed. I' again express the hope that the debate will issue in something being done, and being done quickly and well, which will have the effect of providing work for our people, and making the countryside attractive to our city population. I ask leave to withdraw my motion. 
Motion, by leave, withdrawn. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister of Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
What is the reason for the delay in proceeding with the additions to the General Post Office, Adelaide? 
Will the Minister endeavour to expedite the work, in order to give urgently-needed employment to masons and others in that city ? 
The answers are - 1 and 2. The matter of additions and alterations to the General Post Office, Adelaide, has not been finally decided upon by the PostmasterGeneral, who hopes to visit Adelaide early and determine the question. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister of Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
What amount for fees or expenses (if any) has been paid to  Mr. C.  E. Oliver as Consulting Sanitary Engineer in connexion with the Canberra sewerage scheme? 
The information will be laid upon the table of the Senate when the matter has been finalized. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
It introduces no new features, but will amplify the provisions of the Trading with the Enemy Acts of 1914 by including in those Acts, with such modifications as are appropriate, certain Imperial legislation dealing with trading with the enemy. The English Acts upon which this Bill is mainly based are the Trading with the Enemy Amendment Act 1914, the Trading with the Enemy Amendment Act 1915, and also 56 Geo. V. c. 105. The main purpose of the Bill is to provide for the control of enemy property, and to appoint a person to act as custodian of such property. The person in whom the property is to be vested is to be known as the Public Trustee. He is to be a corporation sole with perpetual succession, and is to be capable of suing and being' sued. He is to have the power of delegating the powers and functions, or any of them, with which he is clothed by virtue of this Bill, any delegation being revocable at will. The property with which this Bill more particularly deals is dividends, bonuses, or interest in respect of shares, stock, debentures, &amp;c. ; interest in respect of loans to firms or persons for the purposes of business carried on by the firms or persons, and shares of profits in such business. The conditions under which, and the persons by whom, sums are tobe paid to the Public Trustee are dealt with in the Bill. Persons holding or managing real or personal property on behalf of an enemy are required to communicate with the Public Trustee supplying particulars as to the property. Companies having share transfer or share registration offices in Australia are to furnish information to the Public Trustee of shares, stock, or debentures held by or for the benefit of an enemy subject. If any firm has received money by way of loan from enemies, or if one or more of the partners thereof is an enemy, the partners of the firm are required, under this Bill, to supply to the Public Trustee information as to shares, profits, or interest due to enemies. Provision is made in the Bill by which, on the application of a person who is the creditor of an enemy or interested in any property belonging to or held for the benefit of an enemy, the High Court may make an order vesting the property in question in the Public Trustee, and conferring on him power to sell or otherwise deal with the property as it thinks proper. Property vested in the Public 
Trustee by virtue of the provisions of the Bill is to be held  by  him until the termination of the war, and is then to be dealt with according to directions by the GovernorGeneral, but debts due by an enemy may be paid out of moneys held by the Public Trustee if the Court so orders. In order to prevent the object of the Bill being circumvented, assignments of debts, &amp;c, by enemy subjects are, unless the assignee secures the consent of a Minister of State, rendered ineffective as giving a right against the debtor to discharge the  obligation.  Provision is made to prevent transfers and other dealings in common with shares and other securities by or on behalf of an enemy subject. The offence of "trading with' the enemy " is amplified to include an attempt, or offer, or proposal to trade with the enemy. It is proposed to vest in the Minister of Trade and Customs power to make an order winding up any business which he is satisfied is carried on wholly or mainly for the benefit or under the control of enemy subjects. The Minister is also given power to appoint a controller to conduct the winding up of any such business. Provision is made with regard to the disposition of property coming into the hands of a controller during the course of the winding up of any business. Lists of persons, firms, and companies, in respect of whose businesses orders for winding up have been made, are to be laid before Parliament. The Minister is also given power to vest in the Public Trustee any property belonging to, or held, or managed on behalf of an enemy subject, and to confer on the Public Trustee the right to sell or otherwise deal with the property. Any shares or stock being part of the capital of a company, or any securities of a company which have been vested in the Public Trustee by virtue of an order of the Minister may, with the consent of the Minister, be purchased by the company concerned, notwithstanding any law or regulation of the company to the contrary. The duty is cast upon enemy subjects to furnish to the Public Trustee within one month of being required to do so, particulars of stocks, shares, or other property belonging to him, or in which he is interested. If an application for a patent for the benefit of an enemy subject has been vested by order, in' accordance with this Bill, in the Public Trustee, the patent may be granted in favour of the 
Public Trustee, and the Bill provides necessary authority for the Commissioner of Patents to take the proper proceedings in that direction. The period during which restrictions on dealings with enemy property shall continue is not necessarily to be terminated at the end of the war, but may continue until the restrictions are removed by the Governor-General. Various other necessary provisions of this Bill deal with the validity of registration of transfers of stock, &amp;c, by the Public Trustee without production of scrip or certificates; the validity of certain vesting orders made under this Bill; the winding up, by the Court, on petition by the Public Trustee, of companies believed to be carrying on business outside Australia, which, if done in Australia, would be an offence against the Act; the fees chargeable by the Public Trustee; the power to grant licences exempting transactions from the provisions of the Act. It is also proposed to provide for enemy property which has, under any State Act, been taken over by a State authority, being transferred, by arrangement between the Governments of the Commonwealth and the State concerned, to the Public Trustee. Any such property vests in the Public Trustee upon the notification of any arrangement between the different Governments beingpublished in the  Gazette.  This is rather difficult legislation, because in drafting Bills of this nature at the beginning, we had no precedents to guide us, and amendments naturally became necessary from time to time. 
The operation of the original Act is limited to the war and a period of six months after; but I am not able to say at this stage whether that limitation will apply to this Bill. 
I am not sure ;-. but I take it that his business of managing enemy concerns, stocks, and shares,, will cease with the termination of the war, although it may be necessary to continue him in his position for a littlewhile longer to wind up affairs. 
Yes, that is what the Bill is really for. 
That is a question which could be more fittingly asked in Committee. He will handle the assets in the interests, first, of the people of the Commonwealth, and, secondly, of the enemy subjects themselves. 
It is; and, of course, the powers are very general also. Each case will be dealt with on its merits. 
He may hold them until after the war, or, by order of the Court, pay debts owing by the person concerned. 
He may possibly live in internment. This and the original Act are inroads on peace conditions; but every consideration has been given to enemy subjects, and the original Act, if I remember aright, provided that, from time to time, allotments and allowances should be given to aliens who are not dangerous to the community; and who are not interned. Under that Act, the person dealing with the matter was called a Receiver; under this Bill he will be called a Public Trustee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from Committee without amendment; report adopted. 

 Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.30 p.m. 

I move - 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The measure is an attempt to tighten up the provisions controlling the importation and exportation of patent medicines. It is hardly necessary to repeat what has been said so often with regard to the trans actions of some of those proprietary companies which handle patent medicines from year to year, and to the extent to which some of them are injurious to the health of the community. It is well known that some patent medicines imported into Australia are fraudulent. They are introduced under fancy names, advertised to cure almost any disease to which the human family is subject, and in many cases they are little better than coloured water. They are sold to a long-suffering public for, in some cases, perhaps 10s. per bottle, when, as a matter of fact, if the ingredients were analyzed, it would be hard for an analyst to determine where any value was represented. I could quote many illustrations of the coldblooded deception practised by these traders on suffering humanity, and I am quite sure that Parliament will show that it has no sympathy with that class of person. There is a keen desire, I believe, that the sale of patent medicines should be regulated, and that they should be so described that the purchaser of any may know exactly what he is receiving. Under the Bill it will be necessary for the importer to lodge with the Customs authorities the formula of each patent medicine. This information will be confidential, and obtained merely that the officers of the Department may know what is being imported and sold to the public of the Commonwealth. The labels of the packages will contain the formula, but not the proportions, so that no trade secrets will be given away. The proposed law is limited in application, because the " Commonwealth Government have not the power to deal with articles manufactured locally, but in all directions where possible the provisions regulating the sale of patent medicines are being tightened up. 
No doubt a good deal can be said for the introduction of a measure of this character, but there is another aspect even to this particular question. The public, as  Senator Russell  has told us, are being taken down, but it is extraordinary how people continue to be taken down. Ever since I can remember, patent medicines have been freely bought by the people of Australia. A large section of our people prefer patent medicines to prescriptions made up on the order of regular members of the medical fraternity. I have heard an old saying, which, I suppose, is familiar to most honorable senators, that " Imagination is as good for a fool as physic." If people imagine that by taking certain patent medicines they receive benefit, is there any need for interference, unless it can be shown that some real injury is being inflicted on the public ? The Minister has not shown in what respect the medicines are bad. He has, it is true, made allegations concerning the injurious nature  of some of them, but he has not presented us with any proof. No doubt, he  could  get any amount of such evidence from members of the medical fraternity, but I would point out that in this case there is a rivalry between two different sections of the same profession. The unqualified medical man is usually termed a "quack," whatever that may mean, and the qualified medical man is licensed by the Government to prescribe for people who care to consult him. Then, on the question of patent medicines being a little better than coloured water, I am sure that if  Senator Russell  has been in the habit of consulting a medical practitioner he has often bought bottles of that same coloured water, for which he has probably paid 3s. 6d. in addition to the medical fee of  £1  ls. for writing out the prescription in Latin. If  Senator Russell  has not a knowledge of the Latin language, it is possible that on certain occasions he has had prescribed for him, without his knowledge, preparations in which coloured water was a principal ingredient, and for which probably he paid an extortionate price. That being so, why does he not fire a shot at the medical profession now? 
Of course, he has. He has just as much power to interfere with the medical profession as with the unlicensed practitioners. 
This -appears to be a very wide subject, and one requiring some attention. An unfortunate feature about the matter is that the medical profession has apparently set its face against any remedy of this character, no matter how good it may be. Evidence that some of the patent medicines are beneficial is found in the fact that they have been before the public for a great number of years, and to-day are being bought in large quantities. Members of the medical profession are jealous of this sort of thing, and consider that it is interfering with their legitimate practice. I have no doubt, therefore, that the profession has brought some influence to bear on the Government in this matter. 
Who is to decide whether they are genuine or otherwise ? That is the question. I presume a member of the medical profession or some chemist will be the judge. 
I think if the public are satisfied to purchase a particular medicine, and if it is shown thai it does not contain ingredients of a poisonous nature, they ought to be allowed to buy it. 
Now, with regard to the formula. We know that men have set themselves to discover remedies for particular diseases, and in this work they have spent many years of their lives. If at last they do hit upon some happy formula, will it be disclosed? 
Does any one imagine that information so disclosed canbe made confidential ? I do not believe a word of it. The moment a man registers his formula in the Customs Department or anywhere else, from that moment theformula is in danger of being disclosed. What inducement, therefore, will there befor discoveries of this kind in the future? This is a matter which" ought to be very carefully considered before any action is taken. 
The Bill is an attempt to contravene an old adage that " you cannot make people honest by Act of Parliament." Undoubtedly, the intention of the Bill is to prevent fraud, and it seems to me that the Minister has taken on a big contract, for I notice it is proposed to add to the " trade description " the " action, effect, and use," as well as the weight of goods. There are very few medicines that do not state on the label what is purported to be the effect of the particular preparation, and I understand the Minister will preclude the sellers from doing this in the future. 
I gather that, the formula being registered at the Customs House, the importers will be precluded from stating on the label of a bottle what is the proposed action of its contents. 
That is the point I am coming to. It has to be borne in mind that patent medicines to-day serve a very good purpose; they are available in many far back country districts, where the physician is not to be found, and many old tried remedies are almost household necessaries to-day. It is possible that if the ingredients are stated on the label, the trust of many people iri patent medicines may be endangered, especially if it is shown that a particular medicine contains poison. It is well known that laudanum, strychnine, and other poisons enter into the composition of many patent medicines. 
Yes; but there seems to be a necessity for some change, and I can see that the Bill will make matters difficult for many people. The orchardist, for instance, will not be able to state accurately what is the number of apples in a certain case, because apples vary in size. Then, again, he will not be able to state the weight of a case six weeks after it has left his hands. In the case of copper, zinc, and such products, the weight of a package may be determined accurately, but in the case of apples the weight will depend upon the length of time that has elapsed between the packing and the sale, and the shrinkage which has taken place in the fruit. 
I disagree with the honorable senator. He will find that a change in temperature, when a case of apples is being sold, will make a difference in their weight. There is a recognised cubical capacity for a registered case. When we are considering questions of weight and measurement, honorable senators will recognise that, judging by measurement, a case containing large apples may weigh less than a similar case containing small apples. 
Nor is it the practice in the Old Country. The difficulty is that by requiring so many particulars to describe the article exported we may hamper the exporters' trade without in any way removing the difficulties of the consumer. It will be agreed that all trading affecting the public health should be safeguarded by such legislation as is here proposed, but its application, unless carefully considered, may be disadvantageous, rather than advantageous, to the public. I do not wish to impede the passage of the Bill, but I say that its provisions require looking into. I see that it is proposed to amend section 15 of the Principal Act by the insertion of a new paragraph, which reads - 
Any other class or classes of goods' which the Minister notifies by order published in the  Gazette. 
This is another instance of our old friend, legislation by regulation. We seem to have reached perpetual motion in legislation by the practice of putting it into the power of a Minister, or the head of a Department, to frame a regulation or a statutory rule which will have the effect of law without coming under the review of Parliament. I had occasion recently to protest against this practice, and it would be just as well that, as members of a legislative assembly, we should recognise what we are here for. It is not to give power to others to do our work, but to do it ourselves as it ought to be done. This power to make regulations leaves an open door to abuses and evils. In most Bills we find a closing clause giving power to make regulations; but in this Bill we have something in addition, and we are asked to give the Minister absolute power in dealing with imports and exports to put any class of goods on the rejected list, or to impose such conditions as might restrict the exportation of our products. 
I am afraid that it is only another example of the tendency displayed by all Governments to take all the power they can. 
If this provision is applicable in one case it is applicable in all, and by simply agreeing to a provision that the Governor-General in Council shall legislate as he pleases, we might disband both Houses of this Parliament, and its members would go home to rest. I shall not delay the second reading of the Bill, but I hope that attention will be given to the matters to which I have referred when it is under consideration in Committee. 
.- I am glad to find the Government taking further steps to safeguard the interests of persons who are in the habit of using patent medicines. A very large number of the people of Australia, as of other parts of the world, have great faith in the efficacy of many patent medicines. I was sorry to hear the Assistant Minister say that the Bill would not apply to medicines made up in Australia, unless they are intended for export. I noticed in one of the newspapers the other day that a citizen of Victoria was trying to earn an honest living by selling bottles of cold tea at 4s. 6d . per bottle. The Government should certainly have some power to deal with individuals .guilty of conduct of that description. Some time ago I saw that by a regulation published in the  Gazette,  the further importation of a medicine or drug known as Count  Mattei's  Cure was prohibited. This article is largely used in South Australia, and I received a letter from a friend whom I know very well, asking me to do what I could to have the embargo on it removed. Perhaps the Assistant Minister could tell us why the importation of this medicine has been prohibited. It looks the most harmless physic I have ever seen, as it is quite colourless. I know that many persons in South Australia swear that it has wrought a cure in their cases. I forwarded the letter sent to me  concerning  it to the Minister of Trade and Customs, but I have not yet had a reply to my communication. Prom time to time we have seen that the importation of certain instruments has been prohibited, but if they ought not to be imported, it is important to know whether they are being made in Australia. If we cannot control the manufacture of injurious instruments or medicines in Australia, of what use is it to prohibit their importation? The allembracing new paragraph proposed to be included in section 15 of the existing Act may cover a class of goods in which I am very much interested. Is it the object of the Government under this provision to require that whiskies, brandies, and other alcoholic spirits imported shall be true to label, so that the people who use them may know exactly what they are' made of ? I believe that our teetotal friends take even greater risks than those who consume the spirituous liquors I have mentioned, and I am quite as anxious that they shall be protected in the matter of the liquors they consume, many of which I believe are very injurious. I hope that if he has not already the power, the Assistant Minister will take the power under this Bill to see that articles of this kind are true to label. Various mixtures  are imported and sold for the use of invalids. I know nothing whatever of their composition, but I should be glad to know that their importation will be under control, and that people will be in a position to know what they contain. I know that the Government are doingtheir best to safeguard the community from the designs of unscrupulous manufacturers of medicines, who dispose of them under false labels. We know that hundreds of thousands of pounds are spent in advertising these things in the newspapers of Australia to induce people to purchase them. So far as I have given the Bill consideration, I may say that its provisions will have my support. 
There has been some misapprehension on the part of  Senator Senior.  This Bill will have no effect in the case of any genuine patent medicine that is sold. Its object is to prevent the sale of patent medicines that are really frauds, by letting the public know what they contain, so far as that is possible without disclosing any trade secrets. The honorable senator referred to difficulties which he apprehended in connexion with the export of apples. It is not intended that the labels required to be furnished in the export of apples should guarantee their delivery in good order six weeks after export, but it is intended to protect the purchaser against such practices as are common in our local markets, where honorable senators will see fine apples polished and glossy on the top of a case, and very inferior apples at the bottom of it. What is proposed is that the label shall give a reasonably accurate description of the contents of the case.  Senator Stewart  asked that I should specify instances of articles sold under false labels. I have sixty or seventy such examples here, but I think they are familiar to most honorable senators. No good purpose is served by giving specific names for the advertising or condemnation of particular patent medicines. Anyone who reads in these days must be aware of the reports on the subject which have been submitted to the House of Commons and to this Parliament, and must know that a very large percentage of the patent medicines on the market are pure and simple frauds, the sale of which should be prevented at the earliest moment.  Senator Senior  was somewhat worried about the power asked for in this Bill to make regulations, but the object really is that we should be able to keep pace with the production of these articles, the sale of which ought to be prohibited. If, for instance, a patent medicine were put on the market to-morrow, consisting of a little rose-water and colouring matter, we should be able to deal with that under a regulation, and it should not be necessary, in order to control its sale, to pass a special Act of Parliament. In answer to  Senator Newland,  I express my regret that we are unable to apply the powers of this legislation to local manufactures and their sale. We hope that that will be amongst the powers exercised by this Parliament some day. The honorable senator asked whether it was intended that whisky should be correctly labelled, and I may inform him that it is intended that the quantity of alcohol contained in the article shall be stated on the label. There will be less risk for our teetotal friends if they are in a position to know the quantity of alcohol they are putting down their throats if they consume these liquors. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee : 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Power to require registration of medicines and foods, &amp;c.). 
The Governor-General may by regulation  require that .... the owner shall .... supply to the Minister a written statement setting forth .... 
.- I move- 
That the following paragraph be inserted :  - " Prime cost of ingredients, cost of manufacture, Customs duties, wholesale profit, retail profit, selling price." 
Yes. It is of first importance that people purchasing patent medicines should be able to read in bold English type on the label particulars showing the value of the article. The prime cost of a patent medicine is generally only an infinitesimal percentage of the price to the purchaser, and a large proportion of patent medicines are sold simply because they are so persistently and widely advertised in the morning newspapers. The point as to the amount of Customs dutyis interesting, and on a subsequent occasion I shall move that the amount of Customs or Excise duty paid shall appear on all imported articles. Every one who has read  Mr. Beale's  reports on secret remedies knows that the prices charged for patent medicines bear no proportion to their true value. 
That is all the more reason why these particulars should be specified on the label in large English type. I do not want diamond type for important information of that kind. 
I trust the Committee will give short shrift to the amendment. The object of the Bill is to protect the public, and it is no protectionto them to make them pay for an extensive printing bill, or to have to read a mass of information that would give a statistician a headache. The Committee have only to picture to themselves a farmer's wife working out the meaning of "Cost of ingredients, .00013 of a penny," on a packet of sulphur, to see the absurdity of the proposal. If we asked the general public to work out these problems, it would be our duty to supply them with patent medicines to cure their headaches. The amendment is impracticable. 
The wives of the farmers of Australia have just as much intelligence, and can read figures and statements just as readily, as can the Minister. Every one nowadays understands decimals and fractions. I hope the Committee will do something to protect those sick persons who are the main purchasers of patent medicines, seeing that to rob the sick and unfortunate is the meanest and most contemptible of all robberies, and it is people of that kind who are being robbed continuously, wholesale and retail, by vendors of patent medicines. If they persisted in allowing themselves to be victimized after reading the particulars which I suggest should be supplied, we could do no more for them. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 4 to 8 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended; report adopted, and Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until 3 p.m. on Monday next. 
It is hoped that we shall be able to conclude this part of the session on Tuesday, in time to allow honorable senators to catch their trains. Another place is sitting to-night and to-morrow in order that we may have the Appropriation Bill by Monday afternoon. I believe honorable senators generally agree that it is desirable to wind up the business as soon as possible. Ministers are carrying a very heavy load, with two of their num ber absent, one, the Prime Minister, who is the chief Minister of the Cabinet, and the other, the Acting Attorney-General. In the circumstances it is not desirable to continue the sittings of Parliament longer than is absolutely necessary to pass certain needed legislation, until the Prime Minister returns. 
His present intention is to return to Australia on 24th July. 
I am sure the Senate will receive most sympathetically the Minister's suggestion that the session should not be so prolonged as to throw additional burdens on Ministers, but I have heard no suggestion from either side to unduly prolong our sittings. Sitting on Monday will not shorten the time for which the Senate will meet. If we met on Monday and Tuesday it would be just the same as if we sat on Tuesday and Wednesday. The Monday sitting seems to be proposed not so much to meet the convenience of members of this House as to meet that of members of another place. Assuming, however, as I had a right to do, that the Senate would meet only on the usual days, I have made public engagements in Sydney for Monday next. In the circumstances it is unreasonable to ask me to break my word to meet the convenience of people to whom we are not allowed to refer. If the Minister had said that it would help the Government for the Senate to meet on Monday, it would have been another matter, but no statement of the kind has been made. It will not lessen the burdens on Ministers for us to meet on Monday and Tuesday, instead of Tuesday and Wednesday, because, in either case, two days' sittings are involved. 
If the Appropriation Bill reaches us on Monday, a number of senators will be able to speak on it, and those who are unable to be present on Monday can say what they want to say on Tuesday. By that means we shall save a day. While I have made no engagements for Monday, I fully sympathize with  Senator Millen  in the position in which he finds himself placed, but I support the Government's proposal with a view to the saving of time. 
Like the Leader of the Opposition I represent a distant State, and I shall certainly be unable to be here on Monday. If I go home this afternoon, I shall not be able to get back before Tuesday. I do not desire to miss any sitting of the Senate if possible, but if the Minister insists upon adjourning the Senate until Monday I shall not be able to attend. I would remind honorable senators that for the last week we have been here prepared to carry on our work, but there has been nothing for us to do. 
If there was work for us to do we have done it expeditiously and adjourned. For that, instead of being commended, we are to be penalized. It does not seem to be with the object of meeting the convenience of the Ministers that we are asked to return on Monday, but because honorable members in another place have shown no hurry to dispose of the measures before them. I protest against the Senate being summoned, at this late hour on Friday, to meet on Monday, because all our engagements are already made, and many of us willhave to observe them. 
I congratulate the Government on their decision to meet on Monday, because we are here for the express purpose of carrying out the work put before us, and it should not inconvenience any honorable senators to work, not only on Monday, but, if necessary, on every day of the week. If we are to do our duty,  we must be prepared to pay a great deal more attention to some matters which at present only partially engage our attention. It is unfair to the country that we should give such a slight amount of attention to the Defence Department, for instance. 
Yes; I am speaking for myself and also for other honorable senators. In my opinion the Government have done the right thing, for it is likely that when we meet on Monday we shall find so much work to do that we shall be kept busy every day of the week. That is what we are here for. I hope the Government will stick to their proposal. 

 Senator WATSON (New South Wales) 
Whilst we have our duties here beyond all doubt, we have also other public duties to perform, and they are duties which cannot be overlooked. Knowing that it is the custom of the Senate to meet on certain days, we are perfectly justified, and within our right, in expecting to be able to meet the obligations which, as servants of the public, are cast upon us. Nothing has occurred to necessitate our meeting here on Monday, and it is not a right departure that we should be called upon, without any definite reason, to meet on an unusual day. I hope the Government will see their way clear to enable honorable senators to keep faith with their public engagements. 
I join with other honorable senators in taking exception to the action of the Government. When we left home last we did so in the expectation that the House would adjourn at the usual time, so that we would be able to return to our homes, and come back to Melbourne to transact our ordinary business as usual. I make it a point, as far as possible,to be present at every sitting of the Senate. Those who sent me here expect me to attend, but if I return home to-day - and it is necessary that I should, to meet engagements I have made - it will be impossible for me to be present on Monday next. I shall, therefore, be placed in a dilemma that will not be one of my own creation. It cannot be argued that the state of the notice-paper is such as to render it necessary for us to meet at an unusual time. If the notice-paper were loaded with business it would be our duty to attack it; but we are all well aware that at present there is only one measure to be considered, the Trading with the Enemy Bill. And, surely, one short measure does not justify a departure from the ordinary routine of the Senate. I hope, theref ore, that the Government will adjourn the Senate until Tuesday next, the usual time. 
There was another matter which I might have mentioned for the information of honorable senators. The adjournment till Monday will certainly meet the convenience of Ministers, because an Inter-State Conference is being held in Adelaide next week, when matters affecting both the State and Common  wealth will be discussed. The State Governments have expressed a desire that the Treasurer and I should attend, after they have discussed matters of State concern, and take part in the deliberations on those matters in which the States and Commonwealth are jointly interested. To attend that Conference it will be necessary that the Treasurer and I should leave Melbourne on Wednesday next, in order to be in Adelaide for Thursday and Friday. Owing to the exigencies of the war, as honorable senators know, the financial affairs of both the States and Commonwealth have become interwoven. The States cannot borrow except through the Commonwealth. It is desirable, therefore, that we should meet representatives of the States and discuss these matters. It would be very inconvenient for the Government to have two Ministers away while Parliament is sitting, as we are already short of two Ministers. I trust, therefore, that honorable senators who may be inconvenienced will recognise this, and withdraw their opposition to the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
In view of the long delay which has taken place in the sending of news of casualties which occurred at Gallipoli - in some cases over twelve months ago - will the Government, in order to allay the anxiety of those who have relatives, at the front, ask the Imperial Government to expedite news of casualties ? 
The honorable senator is probably not aware that the lists of casualties now coming forward refer to soldiers about whose fate no definite evidence could be obtained, that is to say, they took part in various engagements outside our trenches and did not return. It was impossible to say whether they were killed or were made prisoners of war. Every endeavour has been made to obtain information concerning them, but none has been secured, and, following the usual practice, after a certain lapse of time, no information having been obtained to rebut the presumption of death, or stating that they are prisoners of war, they are officially declared to be dead. No action which the Commonwealth or Imperial Government could take would overcome that state of affairs, because there is always between the two contending armies an area of ground over which neither can advance to ascertain what has become of men who are missing. So long as a condition of war exists that difficulty must continue. 
A - Although the lists of casualties now appearing may cover events at Gallipoli, I take it that the cases of illness reported in these lists refer to cases information concerning which has recently been sent from England or Egypt to the Defence Department, and are not in the same category as the casualties to which the Minister has referred. 
W - We may assumethat most of the cases of illness now listed are cases that have recently occurred? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister of Home Affairsexplain what is meant by the reply given to a question I asked on Friday in reference to any fees or expenses paid to  Mr. Oliver  as Consulting Sanitary Engineer for the Canberra sewerage system? Thereply given me was - 
The information will be laid on the table of the Senate when- the matter is finalized. 
Does that mean that the amounts are sonumerous that it will take several days toadd them up ? Will the Minister say what is really meant by the reply? 
I understand that.  Mr. Oliver  has not yet been definitely engaged by .the Home Affairs Department. It is true that a negotiation for his services is going on, and when an agreement is completed the Minister promises to immediately lay it on the table. 
Yes; no fees of any description have yet been paid ta him. 
In view of a statement made some time ago by the PrimeMinister to the effect that Australian coal was available for the German fleet that successfully engaged British cruisers off' the Chilian coast, will the Minister of Defence say whether the Government are at present exercising any scrutiny over thedestination of coal exported from Australia to insure that it will not be used in the same way ? 
Every precautions is tak in in regard to coal now leaving the  Commonwealth.  That has been the casefor some considerable time past. 
Has the Minister representing the Postmaster-General noticed a cable published in this morning's newspapers stating that Australian nurses in France have received no letters since they left Egypt, in March last? As this may apply also to Australian troops in France, will the Minister have an investigation made with a view to more frequent and efficient deliveries of mails for our soldiers? 
An investigation into the matter referred to will be, made. There was necessarily some difficulty in connexion with the delivery of letters for soldiers due to the alterations made in the disposition of the troops. Battalions and divisions were broken up and re-organized, and it was anticipated that this would meet with some difficulty in the delivery of mails. We were preparing for that, and I can assure the honorable senator that the matter to which he has referred will be investigated. 
Will the Minister of Defence, before the Senate adjourns, give a reply to the question I put to him a few days ago in connexion with the rights possessed by Australian soldiers to appeal from sentences of courts martial ? 
I shall endeavour to do so. 
It is very hard for honorable senators to follow the amendment just proposed. The Government do not bring down an amendment to their own Bill without some reason for it, and we should certainly have some explanation from the Minister in charge of the Bill as to what the amendment means and why it is proposed. 
I apologize to the Committee for not explaining the amendment, but I thought that its text was sufficiently clear to make an explanation unnecessary. The object is to repeal the definition of enemy subject in the principal Act and to substitute a new definition. The effect of the amendment would be to restrict the operation of the law so far as enemy subjects are concerned to persons or firms with whom trading is prohibited by proclamation, and any company which the Attorney-General by notice published in the  Gazette  declares to be, in his opinion, carried on for the benefit of persons of enemy nationality. It is believed that this will facilitate the administration of the Act. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I move - 
That after clause 7, the following new clause be inserted :  - " 7a. Section nine of the principal Act is amended by omitting sub-section (5) and inserting in its stead the following subsection: - 
Any money paid to a Trust Account in pursuance of this section may, at the discretion of the Treasurer - 
be paid to the Public Trustee as money vested in him under this Act; or 
be paid to any special ac count opened by the creditor in accordance with any licence granted by the AttorneyGeneral under any proclamation by the GovernorGeneral relating to trading with the enemy; or 
be paid to the creditor, his executors or administrators, on demand made after the termination of the present state of war, or before that time if he is satisfied that the creditor is not an enemy subject." 
This amendment affects section 9 of the Act, which provides that persons owing money to others whom they believe to be enemy subjects may pay the debt to the Comptroller-General of Customs, who shall pay the money into the Trust Account. The amendment will empower the Treasurer to permit the money to be paid to the Trust Account in accordance with section 9 of the Act, to the Public Trustee, to a special account in accordance with a licence granted by the Attorney-General, or to the person to whom the money was originally owing, or his executors or his administrators after the termination of the war, or to the creditor forthwith if he proves not to be an enemy subject. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause 8 - Proposed new section 9s (Transfer to Commonwealth of returns, &amp;c, made under State Acts). 
Amendment (by  Senator Gardiner)  agreed to - 
That the following words be omitted from sub-section 2: - " (b) Any obligation imposed upon any per son firm or company under this Act to pay any money or transfer any other property whatsoever to the Public Trustee, or tomake to him returns, particulars, or notifications, shall be substituted for the like obligation (if any) under a State Act to pay money, transfer property, or make returns, particulars, or notifications to the custodian." 
Bill reported with further amendments. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended ; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a first time. 
The Estimates to which this Bill refers are those for the financial year ending 3th June next. I have nothing to add to the statement I made on the financial position when I moved that the Budgetpapers be printed, because the position then set out still stands. It is regrettable that these Estimates come forward at this late hour for our concurrence, but in the circumstances that is unavoidable. The Treasurer is endeavouring to get the new Estimates forward, so that they may be presented early in the next financial year, thus giving both Houses an opportunity of dealing with them when they are really alive, and not practically dead, as these Estimates undoubtedly are. 
The special circumstances of the war cannot be held accountable for the late period at which this Bill is brought in. Ever since the establishment of Federation we have had the same old farce year after year, whether the Conservatives or the Labour party were in power, and I trust there is something in the Acting Prime Minister's intimation that a better method will be adopted in the future. It is high time Parliament took action with regard to the development of our resources. We hear a great deal about the provision that must be made for our returning soldiers, but another army of boys and girls is growing up in Australia every year, for whom provision must also be made. One of the means by which it is hoped to develop this continent is the passage of a Protectionist Tariff, the object of which will be to establish and encourage Australian industries manned by Australian citizens. We have been promised this Tariff for some time, and the people have, at election after election, declared their will on the subject, but nothing has been done, and nothing is proposed to be done even now. One argument raised against the passing of the Tariff now is the absence of the Prime Minister, but I am not aware that his presence is essential in this matter. We all know the declared policy of Australia. It is the Protectionist policy to establish industries within the Commonwealth, and in that connexion it is a matter of little or no moment whether the Prime Minister is present or absent. If we are to carry out our pledges to the electors, and give effect to their orders, we must put a Protectionist Tariff on the statute-book. Another reason given is that we are at war. Everybody knows that, and it is quite within tha range of probabilities that when the war is over there will be no Commonwealth of Australia. But we are proceeding with our every-day concerns on the assumption that the Allies will be victorious, and that, maimed and crippled as the British Empire and every other combatant will be when the struggle is over, things will resume their old course. If that is the case, I see no reason in the present situation for postponing the consideration of the Tariff. It may be said that special trading advantages must be given to our Allies as some reward for their assistance and co-operation. But if we are to carry out our declared policy of developing our resources in harmony with Australian standards of living - and I believe we are not prepared to depart from that policy except under the most severe compulsion - we need not delay by a single hour the framing of this Tariff. That being our policy, there can be no preference to any one, even to Great Britain. I have said on the floor of this chamber thousands of times that there are millions of people in Great Britain in a condition of semi-starvation, while another section lives more luxuriously than any people have lived since tha last days- of  the Roman Empire. Wherever you have a large section of the people in such a condition of poverty as the first-named class, industries must be sweated. Those people must be earning less than a living wage, and if we are to give the products of those engaged in such' industries preference in Australia, this will inevitably tend to degrade our people to the level of the British industrialist. I do not think any honorable senator is prepared to indorse a policy which  would  undoubtedly have that result. If we give preference to any one outside Australia, the whole fabric of Australian industrialism, as we have hitherto attempted to rear it, will crumble to pieces. It may be said that circumstances after the war will compel us to adopt some system of preference. 
I would put a tax sufficiently high upon everybody's goods either to keep them out or reduce our importations to a minimum. That is my individual policy, and I believe it is the policy in the minds of the people. It is the only safe policy for them if theycan carry it out. I am proceeding all through on the assumption that at the end of the war Australia will be in exactly the same position as at the beginning, and that is the only safe assumption on which one can proceed, because, if everything is to be suspended until we know exactly where we stand, nothing will be done, and we shall be unprepared for the circumstances which will immediately follow the ending of the conflict. We read in the press that, while the war is proceeding, Germany - undoubtedly the most  highly-organized  country in Europe, and showing a pattern of organization which every other country might well follow - is manufacturing huge quantities of goods which it is prepared, through agents, to dump wherever they can be disposed of. Does any one imagine that we can rear against a policy of that kind any barrier sufficiently high to keep those goods out if we give preference to anybody ? Nothing would be easier than for Germany to send her goods here through French agencies, although France is our Ally. And, although America may be said to be, indirectly, our Ally also, it will be quite easy for Germany to send her goods into this country through an 
American agency or even through British agencies. We have heard before of British merchants lending themselves to such transactions, and we may be sure that wherever profit is to be found there those who are out to make profit will be gathered together. I have, therefore, come to the conclusion that the only course open to this Parliament is to pass a Tariff of one schedule, with high duties, and no preference. The people of Australia have decided that Protection is to be our policy; and, while the advantage of a Protectionist policy was obvious for a considerable time to a great proportion of our thinking people, the minority, unfortunately, could not be  brought  to see the necessity for it until the present war  began,  when they discovered what a disadvantage Australia was placed at through not having taken steps to provide for its own requirements. ' It must be evident to every one now how necessary it is, if Australia is to be developed and peopled, and if her inhabitants are to achieve any skill in the industrial arts, for us to place ourselves upon a level with more advanced countries. I, therefore, urge honorable senators to bring pressure to bear upon the Government to go on with the Tariff now, 'and not to get into recess and delay the passage of such a necessary measure until the return of the Prime Minister or any other future event. Now is tlie accepted time. The war may end at any moment. It is the unexpected that almost always happens, and one finds from history that great struggles similar in character to the present have ended almost as precipitately as they began. If peace is declared to-morrow, are we prepared with our industrial or commercial wall ? We are not. We are in a condition of absolute unpreparedness. German goods and the cheap-labour goods of other countries will be dumped on to the markets of Australia to the extent of millions of pounds, to the peril, not only of our residents, but of our protected industries as well. I do not wish to say any more upon this subject, except that every honorable senator who believes in the Protectionist policy, and who takes the whole existing circumstances into account, ought to bring as much pressure as he can to bear upon the Government to go on with the Tariff now instead of . going into recess. There is another method by which the resources of Australia may be greatly helped. I have referred to that upon various occasions in this Chamber. I allude to the land question. I am aware that several honorable senators will think that I attach too much importance to this question, and say too much about it - that it is more in my thoughts than any other subject. It is quite true that it is in my thoughts more than any other subject, because I regard it as the most important subject of all. Give me the lands of this country, and I do not care what your currency is, or what system of government you adopt - provided the Government do not take the land from me - I will still be " top dog." That position holds good with regard to the owners of land all the time.- Notwithstanding that Australia is a country of wide spaces, great difficulty is experienced in getting land. 
Unfortunately, it is not nonsense. 
But I would remind the honorable senator that Western Australia is only one part of the Commonwealth of Australia; and if the Government of that State are having hundreds of farms thrown on their hands, that is a very strong argument in favour of my policy, because probably those hundreds of farms are situated in localities far from railway lines. 
Well, probably the land is of very little value. 
Well, all I can say is that there must be something wrong if hundreds of farms are thrown on the hands of the Government. I do not know what the exact circumstances of the cases referred to by the honorable senator are ; but I do know that all over Australia the demand for land is increasing. In Queensland, whenever a few acres of land are thrown open, there are hundreds of applicants who cannot be satisfied. That condition of affairs obtains right throughout the continent of Australia. We all know that the best portions of this continent were picked by fortunate individuals years ago, and  that the small farmer who takes up land is usually placed at a serious disadvantage because he does not get the best land available. This country is still in the hands of the monopolist, although this Parliament for years past has had the power in its hands to hit the monopolist with the bludgeon of land value taxation and give the small man the opportunity of getting land fit to settle upon in small areas. 
But something more than a gentle poke is required. The Government should use a high explosive, and while the Labour party has been in possession of that high explosive for years it has failed to use it. .The Land Tax Act of the Commonwealth is merely tickling the ribs of the monopolist, who is cutting down his 100,000 and 200,000 acre areas to smaller areas; but the man below the £5,000 exemption limit is not benefiting at all. I have given this matter a good deal of attention, and I find that at the end of the last financial year the area of land within the scope of the land value tax was actually greater than when the tax was imposed. If the tax had been doing its work and cutting down big estates into small farms that would not have been the case. 
I do not know. All I know is that the area included in holdings over the £5,000 exemption mark was greater at the end of the last financial year than it was when the tax was imposed. A man having a holding worth £5,000 unimproved value cannot be said to be a small farmer. I do not believe there is a single small farmer in Queensland the unimproved value of whose holding is more than £5,000. I am told that in Victoria a man cannot make a living on an area the unimproved value of which is much less than £5,000; but I know that in Queensland dozens of families are making a good living on holdings below £500 in value. 
I am not talking about riches or poverty, but whether the land is in the hands of the small people. My inquiries have demonstrated that it is. If the honorable senator means by the interjection that small holdings are undesirable because those who have them do not make a good livelihood out of them, that brings to view another aspect of the question. I know that the people to whom I refer are not wealthy, but they are making, in many cases, a good living, though perhaps they are not putting much in the bank. The average worker is not doing that either, nor does he expect to be able to do it. I say, however, it is much better that land should be available for those people than that the present state of things should be allowed to continue. Then there is the problem of the growing population in our cities. Surely in a country like Australia, the undue increase of city populations is an exceedingly unhealthy state of affairs. Since the war began I have carefully examined the returns of recruits obtained from the country and the cities respectively. The country returns have shown 100 enlisted, 75 accepted, and 25 rejected; and, as a rule, the city returns have shown for every 100 enlistments 50 rejected men. If these returns are of any value, the country man is shown to be better, from a physical stand-point, than the city man. I have compared the lists in Melbourne and Sydney, and invariably there is a much larger percentage of recruits accepted in the country districts than in the cities. 
I have taken my figures from the Melbourne and Sydney papers, and I assume that they are fairly reliable. But we do not require those statistics to prove the superior physique of the country man, as compared with the man who lives in the cities. We all know that the physique of the man leading a country, life is immeasurably superior to that of a man in the cities. 
I am quite aware that sanitary science is making the cities more desirable as places of residence than country districts, and that some diseases which used to be prevalent both in country and town have practically disappeared from the cities, because of improved sanitary arrangements. As against that, we have to remember that the welfare of the race depends, to a very large extent, upon the female section of the population -  upon  the circumstances under which each woman lives up to the age of reproduction. Will any one tell me that a young woman who has spent her life from fourteen years of age up to the time of her marriage in, say, a draper's shop, where the atmosphere is vitiated, is likely, to be as good a mother, and produce children as healthy, as a young woman brought up on a farm? This argument may also be applied to the men. Can any one imagine that a city man, working under an artificial light from day to day, can have as good a physique as the timber-getter, the ploughman, the miner, the shearer, or the labourer, or any of those men who earn their living in the bush districts of Australia? The thing is impossible. Therefore I say that, from this point of view, something ought to be done to stem this drift towards the cities. It is undoubtedly taking place in Australia, as in almost every other country in the world; and it had its origin, in other countries, just as in Australia, in the system of landlordism. I was brought up in a part of the British Empire which at one time carried double the population that it has to-day. It has since practically been depopulated and given over to American millionaires as a game preserve. During the Peninsular Wars, thousands and thousands of the finest men in Europe were sent from the place to which I allude. Where ten men were sent then, I doubt if one could be sent to-day. Will any one say that this kind of policy is going to result in good for Great Britain and the Empire? This condition is due to the iniquitous system of landlordism, which is producing the same results in Australia. What depopulated Ireland? Was it not landlordism? About fifty years ago there were nearly ten millions of people in Ireland, and to-day there is hardly half that number. They were driven out of their own country by the iniquitous landlord system which prevailed,  but  which, I am glad to say, does not obtain to such an extent now. Exactly the same state of affairs in Australia is producing the same results. We have a condition of landlordism here which OUtherods Herod. I do not care where you go you will not find such a huge proportion of the land surface in the hands of so few people as you will find in Australia. Canada is a country very similar to Australia, but we do not find such a condition of landlordism there. There are comparatively few very large estates in Canada, and even the railway companies - those monuments of Conservatism - adopt a system which every Australian Government would do well to adopt. The railways in Canada belong to private companies that have been subsidized by the Government with grants of money and with grants of land. So many miles along each side of the railway lines have been handed over to the companies by the Government. What do the companies do with this land ? They first of all classify it. Close to the railway line the usual area given is 160 acres, or what is called a quarter section. Going back from the railway the area is increased to half a section, and still further back to a full section of 640 acres, but I do not think there are many holdings even of that area in Canada. The railway companies will not allow any man to hold more than 160 acres of land along the railway line. If a man wishes to sell out he must do so to another who will occupy and work the holding or he must sell to the company. On no account will the company allow one man to hold more than a single quarter section along the railway line. That is the policy which the railway companies of Canada have adopted in their own interests. They want to have families settled on the land. They want production and population. Every additional family settled on the land and every cultivated quarter section means more traffic for the railway. What is the case here in Australia? Let us consider what obtains in Victoria - the most thickly-populated portion of the 
Commonwealth. You can go for miles upon miles along the railway lines in some districts in Victoria without seeing a single house or any evidence of a single settler. Yet all that land is held by somebody in large estates. I very often read in the newspapers about the 5,000 miles of railway lines they have in Queensland. I say that they have 2,500 miles too many. In that State you can travel along the railway line for a day in some districts and you will hardly see a single human being or a habitation. This i3 the kind of thing which is driving the country people of Australia into the cities, and which is against the interests of those who live in the cities, who, if proper conditions were offered them, would be glad to leave the pavements and get out into the bush. I ask the State Governments of Australia to take a leaf out of the book of the Canadian railway companies. If they do, we shall see that settlement will be very much increased in the near future. This is a matter over which the Federal Parliament has no control. But we can do some'thing very much more effective in the way of breaking up large estates than we have yet done. We have the power to break up every large estate in Australia if we only exercise it. Unfortunately there is a limit below which at present we cannot go. There is an exemption of £5,000. Although I am pledged to vote for that exemption, I am satisfied that no substantial good to the people of Australia in connexion with land settlement will ever be done until this exemption of £5,000 is swept away. I have been giving this question the closest consideration for years, and that is the conclusion to which I have come. I am aware that many members of the Labour party think it undesirable to reduce the exemption, but our present land tax is not breaking up big estates to any extent. It is not helping the small holder and is not making land cheaper for us. If it fails in that, it fails in one of the purposes which the Labour party had in placing land value taxation upon its platform. We might go much further with this taxation than we have done. We want revenue, and have attempted to get it in various directions. We have imposed a very stiff income fax, and we have a Federal income tax as well as a State income tax. Whilst I do not object in the slightest to either of these taxes, and am of opinion that in the present circumstances they might both be very much higher than they are, I want to point out that income taxation, if it does not hinder, does not stimulate industry. What might be the effect of land-value taxation? If every big estate were broken up and the land made available to the people, the result would Be, if conditions of settlement were made as favorable as they ought to be, that in the next few years hundreds of thousands of people would be settled upon the lands of Australia. Would not that be an immense stimulus to industry? Let honorable senators consider what that would do for production. The State and Federal Governments are making experiments in fixing prices, but they have not attempted to fix the price of anything except foodstuffs. It seems to me. to be a paradox of the strangest character that in a country like Australia it should be necessary to fix the price of foodstuffs at all. Surely if the people had access to the land, food here would be abundant, and, being abundant, would be cheap. One need not wonder at the prices of foodstuffs rising when the non-food-=producing portion of our population in the cities is equal to, if not greater, than the number of the people on the soil of Australia who are producing food. The disproportion is becoming every year greater. We have more people in the cities consuming food, and fewer people on the land producing it. This does not apply to Australia alone. It is world-wide phenomenon. How can we wonder that the cost of food goes up unduly? There is ^another aspect of the question to be considered. A few years ago, the United States of America was a very large exporter of meat. She is now importing meat, and has none to export. Canada some time ago sent considerable numbers of cattle to Great Britain. I believe she now finds her market for them across her border in the  United States of America. The result is that very few, if any, Canadian cattle now find their way to the United Kingdom. But while we find that the United States of America has become an importer instead of an exporter of meat, almost every country in Europe requires to import meat and other foodstuffs, although but a short time ago most of them produced, at least, enough for their own  consumption. Again, the people of the East, who hitherto have not been meat consumers, are beginning to eat meat in comparatively large quantities. We are sending considerable quantities of meat to the East from Australia. The probability is that this trade will continue to expand. If all these circumstances are taken intoaccount, need we wonder that the cost of living is going up in Australia, that meat is becoming dearer? What I have said regarding meat applies to a certain extent also to wheat. Probably in the next twenty years the condition I have indicated will be very much more acute than it is at the present moment. I say that the only way to bring down the cost of living to a proper level is to encourage by every possible means the settlement of people on the land to grow food for themselves and others. You may fix prices if you please. You may say to the meat grower, "You shall not get more than a certain amount for your bullock " ; to the butter producers, " We will not give more than1s. 2d. per lb. for your butter." We may say the same to the milk producer, and to every one of our producers. We can fix prices for them, but we cannot compel them to produce if the prices we fix do not pay them. There is very strong evidence to-day of a kind of strike on the part of a considerable section of our food producers. Therefore, I say this question of land settlement is one which the Government of the Commonwealth ought to seriously consider. The existence of Australia as a nation is at stake. We are not out of the wood yet, and we do not know that we will ever get out of it. But we do know that if we were out of it to-morrow there will inevitably come another occasion when Australia will be in just as much danger as she is now, and when the circumstances affecting her existence as a community will be more serious than they are to-day. Every man here ought to set himself deliberately to try to place Australia in such a position that when that time comes she will be better prepared to defend herself than she is now. There are not 5,000,000 people in this country, and I have said time and again that there ought to be 25,000,000. There is room and to spare for 100,000,000 people here. I say that Australia will never be safe from foreign invasion until she is not dependent on Britain, France, Russia, or any other country for her independence, but upon her own strong right arm. It is the duty of every man in this Commonwealth to strain every nerve to bring Australia into the position I have indicated. Who knows what the immediate future may produce? We have a combination of countries acting together to-day which, within my own memory, were most bitter foes. In the early fifties France and Britain fought Russia. A little earlier Germany, Britain, and a combination of other countries fought France, and the near future may produce a combination altogether different from that which we have at the present time. There is no course of safety open to Australia unless she adopts a national policy which will guarantee her a very much larger population within a comparatively short period of time. The Labour party has such a policy upon its platform, and it only wants the courage to put it into force. We are pledged to a Protectionist Tariff and to land-value taxation, but instead of grasping the nettle firmly, we approach both subjects timidly and hesitatingly. We touch them to see whether or not they are hot. That is not the way in which nations are built up. If there ever was a time when the Parliament and Government of this country should reach out boldly, and do something effective to open the resources of Australia to the people and add to her population, this is such a time. When the war is over, I have not the slightest doubt that a great many people in Europe will be disposed to leave that continent if they can only find a city of refuge to go to. I say that Australia is that city. We could offer a home to the people of France, Belgium,Britain, and. Russia - because we have a considerable number of Russians in Australia now, and they are excellent colonists - andI will say, in passing, of the enemy, although, perhaps, it is not right that anything good should be said of him now, that in the past we have found our German settlers to be men of the very best calibre, and but for the war we should still be glad to welcome them as colonists. Unfortunately, this dreadful outbreak has given us for the time a different conception of the German character ; hut, in any case, when the war is over and things begin to settle down, there will be a large number of people desirous of improving their material conditions, and on no portion of the earth's surface is the opportunity greater for them to do so than it  is. here. If Parliament rises to the occasion, and places on the statute-hook such a Tariff as will create industries rather than produce revenue; if Parliament will break up every large estate and reduce the exemption under the land tax so as to enable small holdings to be obtained at a comparatively cheap rate by a certain section of the people, we shall be within measurable distance of the solution of the problems that now puzzle us. There is another branch of politics which has not had the attention it deserves. We are at war, and spending huge sums of money. If any one had ventured a few years ago to name these amounts as likely expenditure, he would have been laughed at; yet we are borrowing money,1 I suppose, by the hundred million, and are paying interest for it. We must have money as well as men if we are to carry on the war. Parks of artillery and mountains of shells would be of no use if we had not the men to handle them. We are getting money for these purposes in the good old way. I do not blame any one, for it is very easy, and perhaps safer, to move along the beaten track; but if "Every one kept to the beaten track there would be no progress. Australia has lind an opportunity of giving a lead to the world in war finance, but she has allowed it to slip. We are allowing people who lend us the money we require interest at 4£ per cent., with special privileges, and the loan is to be repaid in ten years. The arrangement means that when we borrow, nominally, £50,000,000, we borrow £75,000,000 in reality. When we borrow, nominally, £100,000,000, we borrow £150,000,000 in reality, because that is what we shall have to pay in principal and interest. That is a most serious burden on the people, and its effect will be felt for generations to come. If there were no other way, I should make no complaint. Every man ought to be prepared to do what he can to save the country in the present crisis. The man with money ought to be prepared, if necessary, at the call of the Commonwealth to contribute the last farthing of his substance, just as every man ought to be ready to go to the front and fight if he is able to do so. Young and old, rich and poor, ought to be prepared to do something. If no other course than the present were possible, I should, as I say, not complain; but, with all deference to men who probably have more right to be con- sidered experts in finance than myself, I assert that another course was possible, and ought to have been taken. It has been claimed, on behalf of the exTreasurer, that he consulted the highest authorities available before floating the first war loan. I have no doubt he did; but in doing so he consulted men interested in maintaining the present system - men whose occupation would be practically gone if that system were abolished. He consulted men from whom no other advice was possible, and therefore the advice came from a source which cannot be taken without reserve. A large sum has been borrowed already, and more is to be borrowed; but no one imagines that the Government has got a sovereign for every £1 borrowed. I do not think it has received even a £l-note. What it has got is credit, and the issuers of that credit are the private banking companies. What is the foundation of their credit system? There is in existence a certain gold reserve, and we are told that on this the whole institution of credit rests. If that was all our credit system rested upon, it would not be worth a snap of the fingers, because when wanted it is invariably not there. There is not enough gold in the world to do one-hundredth part of the business of the world. Gold, as a matter of fact, is the mere nominal foundation of credit. It reminds me of the fire-escape in a theatre, which is placarded in big letters, but when a fire takes place is almost invariably useless. 
Gold is something more than a yard-stick ; it is at once a commodity and a measure of value ; but if credit rested upon nothing but gold, it would be like a house built upon sand. Our credit rests upon something much more substantial. It rests upon the assets of the country - the land, the industries, the machinery, and all the other resources of the community. If the banks can so manipulate those assets as to issue credit upon them, the Commonwealth can do the same. Whatever the Treasurer or any other financial authority may say, the system I advocate is not only capable of being, but should be, carried out. I have considered the question of whether money raised for this war should carry interest, and  haw  come to the conclusion that it should not. Everything we have in Australia is in jeopardy. If the Allies were defeated, and Germany triumphant, it would be of no advantage to me to own £1,000,000 worth of property. Probably the Kaiser would confiscate every farthing of it, and make me a donkey-driver. Would not I rather give one-tenth, or a half, or even the lot, to be saved from that degradation? Would I not do that rather than offer the Government £20,000 or £100,000 at 4£ per cent? When the very existence of a country is in danger, every man ought to be prepared to give all he has, and do all he can, not for interest or for payment, but for nothing. That is probably a new aspect of the question to some people. In by-gone days England fought many of her battles on the Continent of Europe with the arms of mercenaries. It did not matter to them whom they fought for or against, so long as they were paid for their hire. They were soldiers by instinct and by profession, and fought under any flag. It was even said that many of them had fought under every flag in Europe; and they were called mercenaries to distinguish them from the patriots who defended their country for a bare living, just because it was their country. That is the only basis upon which the defence of a country can be placed. Those who have money ought to be prepared to give it without interest, and those who can fight ought to fight - not because they are paid for fighting, but because it is their country, and they desire to maintain its liberties. A great number of comparatively poor people ask straight out what they have to fight for. I would ask them, in turn, in what country would they find themselves in a better position than they are in here. I do not say the working people of Australia are as well off as they ought to be, or as I wish them to be. I have been doing my little bit for twenty years to improve their conditions, which are much better to-day than when I and a number of others began; but we are still only on the threshold of reform. If they were in Russia they would not have a vote for members of Parliament, nor would they have Arbitration Courts, Wages Boards, an eight-hours day, or a great many other privileges they enjoy here. They would be practically serfs. 
And even in Great Britain, the most liberallygoverned country in Europe, they would not be on an equality with the working people of this country. The government of Australia is practically in the hands of the working man and of his wife and daughter. The people of Australia are its rulers. If men are not prepared to fight for a country which they themselves rule, what would they do if they lived in a country which they did not rule, or in the government of which they had very little say? In any of the European countries they would have to fight  if the occasion arose. That would be the case even in the United States of America, which is supposed to be one of the freest countries of all. Wherever men live, if the Government requires their services to defend the country, they must fight. How much more necessary is it that in a country like Australia every man should be prepared to take the sword in hand and go forth to defend his country? But I am getting away from the money aspect of the question. I am not only in favour of every man being available for the defence of his country, but I am also in favour of the entire resources of the country being placed at the disposal of the Government. I said. some time ago, when moving an amendment upon the Loan Bill, that the then Treasurer,  Mr. Fisher,  had an excellent opportunity to try the mettle of the capitalists of Australia by inviting them to give a loan without interest. But he did not do that.. Instead, he took the advice of those financiers themselves, and he invited subscriptions at 4$ per cent., with exemption from State and Federal income tax.-. Then, when some one questioned his successor on the subject, he was told that it would mean ruin if any such course as  I  have proposed were taken. I do not think it would. I cannot see how, if a matter of this kind were approached in a businesslike way, it would mean any greater ruin than the present system. We have already received nearly £100,000,000, and I do not see that any ruin has eventuated. We will probably have to raise another £100,000,000 before the war is over, and I believe that, while some dislocation of business may result - which, I think, is inevitable - there will not be anything like widespread ruin so long as we can get good seasons in Australia, and good prices for our produce exported to other parts of the world. If the Treasurer had given the capitalists of Australia the opportunity I have indicated, and if they had failed to respond, what could have been done? He had the wealth census before him showing the position of every man in Australia, and he could have made a levy upon the wealth, making the impost on a graduated scale. 
Yes, for I believe in the old Scotch axiom, " You cannot take the  breeks  off a  Hielanman,"  which, being interpreted, means you cannot take the trousers off a Scotchman. This saying became a proverb, because at that particular time Scotchmen did not wear trousers. You cannot get blood out of a stone, or money out of people who have not got it. 
Yes, I am aware of that.  Senator Ready  has asked me if I would have an exemption. I would, most  undoubtedly, but that is a detail which would have to be worked out. The contributions, or forced loans, whatever you like to call them, would be on a graduated scale. Suppose the exemption were fixed at £2,000 worth of property. 1 would not ask a man who owned only £2,000 to give as big a proportion of it as the man who owned £10,000, nor would I ask the man with £10,000 worth of property to pay as much as the man who had' £20,000. The proportion would be graduated until the very richest were called upon to pay the largest proportions. Now, how would the money be raised? The Treasurer said that such a course would bring about ruin and the collapse of industry. I do not believe a word of it. If the banks can raise millions upon credit - and that- is what they are doing - the Commonwealth can do tile same. 
Is the honorable senator aware that the present war loan, carrying interest, is depreciating other securities ? When the war is over he will see to what extent other securities  have  been so depreciated. If the banks can raise all the millions which are being poured into the Loan Fund on the credit ot the assets which they have behind them, the Commonwealth can do the same, through the Commonwealth Bank. In his Budget speech the Treasurer stated that the wealth of Australia was, approximately, £1,000,000,000. I have read elsewhere, on the authority, I believe, of the financial editor of the  Sydney Morning Herald,  that the accumulated wealth of Australia is not £1,000,000,000 but £2,000,000,000, and I believe the financial editor of that newspaper is in just as good a position to make an estimate as anyone else. Now, suppose the accumulated wealth of Australia is £2,000,000,000. Five per cent, on that would mean £100,000,000. Suppose, however, we say that half of that sum, or £1,000,000,000, belongs to people who would come within the exemption. We would still have £i;000,000,000 upon which to levy o per cent., which would bring us in £50,000,000. Suppose the Commonwealth Government made this levy. Some people would, no doubt, be able to meet it without calling upon their bankers at all, but there would be comparatively few. I have no doubt that a considerable number would have to make arrangements with their own private bankers, but many would not be in a position to do so. Suppose that half of these people, representing a levy of £25,000,000, could not make an equitable arrangement with their bankers, the Commonwealth Government could take them in hand, just as the private bankers are doing at the present moment, and advance £25,000,000 on the credit of their assets. "In all financial transactions that is what the private banks are doing to-day. A good bank manager ought to have no difficulty whatever in carrying through a business matter of this sort. Let me give honorable senators a concrete case. Suppose  Senator Ready  had property worth £10,000, and 5 per cent., representing £500, was levied upon him. Suppose the honorable senator could not get this advance from his own bank. What would he do? He could go to the Commonwealth. Bank, state his position, and get from that institution an advance of £500 on the security of a mortgage over his estate, valued at £10,000. 
The Crown would not take a second mortgage for war purposes. It would have a first mortgage. Having received that advance from the bank,  Senator Ready  would pay it to the Treasurer as his contribution to the war levy. From my point of view, it would be just as easy for the Commonwealth Bank to do this as it would be for the private banks to do it. No man ought to look upon money invested for the defence of his country in the same way as an ordinary investment. If I were voyaging to Tasmania, and had a thousand sovereigns in the vessel, would I hesitate to jettison it if, during a storm, the officer in command declared that everything must be thrown overboard ? If I did hesitate, the chances are that not only would my gold be thrown overboard, but that I would be thrown overboard myself. Likewise, every mau ought to be prepared to sacrifice all he has when the country is in danger. I believe that every man would be ready to do that if he were placed in the proper position, if the danger were sufficiently imminent for him to appreciate it. What would the people of Belgium give to-day to be rid of the Germans ? I believe that they would give all they have, though I am afraid that the Germans have taken it by forced loans already. If, when they requisition anything, it is refused, they have a summary way of dealing with the people. 
I have not made any proposition of that character, but I say that it ought to be repaid as soon as the country is able to pay it. If Great Britain fails in this war, the people who have subscribed to this loan will lose all, and a great deal besides. Every ounce of gold in their coffers will be taken from them, and all property will be confiscated by the conquerors. That would be the experience not only of the banks, but of every citizen of Australia who is worth powder and shot. It is to save them from this catastrophe that they are subscribing this money, and yet some people dare to have the assurance to say that money subscribed for such a purpose should be placed in the same category as money invested in profit-making enterprises. The thing is ridiculous. 
I do not know that it is. After providing for all its liabilities and leaving an ample margin to carry on its business, a bank mighthave £i,000,000 which it could afford to put into the war loan at 4£ per cent., with exemption from income tax. 
In my opinion, it would belong to the shareholders of the bank. I. have dwelt sufficiently long on that aspect of the question. I do not hope to convert honorable senators to my way of thinking in this matter. 
I think it is just as easy to work out as it is beautiful in appearance. It only wants a strong hand to grip it and work it out. There is another aspect of the war loans which I desire to put before the Senate. I have often heard and read, in peace time, a statement to the effect that before any country can declare war it has to consult the capitalists who own the wealth of the country. If the capitalists say "Yes," war eventuates, and if they say "No," peace reigns for the time being. I have heard also, and it is a matter of public knowledge, that the accumulations of capital throughout Europe, America, and all the civilized world during the last century have been so rapid and so extensive that large capitalists have, at times, had serious difficulty in finding in. vestments for their surplus wealth, and that it was quite a common thing for them, when they found themselves in that position, to promote war, because it is very well known that nothing dissipates wealth so quickly as does war. Let honorable senators consider the thousands of millions that have been spent in the present war. What is the result of it? Destruction. Nothing has been made, but f, great deal has been unmade. The result will be that, when the war is over and these thousands of millions have been spent, tangible investments will remain, so far as the capitalists are concerned, earning 5 per cent, in some countries, and 4£ per cent, in others. Very few small men have contributed to war loans compared with the number of large capitalists who have invested in them. The bulk of the money provided here and in Europe has been contributed by big capitalists, and, after all this destruction, waste, and devastation, it will remain for them a tangible investment, returning a substantial rate of interest, which the unfortunate toilers and spinners of wealth will have to pay for untold generations. If there be a scintilla of truth in what I have said, and if it be to the interest of the capitalist at times to promote war, would not this principle of the abolition of interest on moneys raised for war which I am advocating tend very largely to prevent war taking place? If these big capitalists could not make a profit out of a war, would they not be anxious to restrain the nation when it wanted to go to war? At present they make a profit of from 4 per cent, to 5 per cent, out of war, and if the capitalist when he asked : " Where do I come in ? What am I going to make out of it?" knew that the answer would be that he would make nothing out of it, do honorable senators not think that his influence, and it is a great one, would be cast into the scale against war? I think it would, inevitably, and the carrying out of the principle I have advocated would go a great way to promote peace and harmony among the nations of mankind. I submit it to the Senate, confident that it is a good system, and that, in its result, so far as the unfortunate people who have to carry the burden of war are concerned, and so far, also, as the tendency to indulge in war is concerned, it would be of very great benefit indeed to civilization. I have said about all I desire to say on the present occasion. I trust that honorable senators will take into very serious consideration the question of developing the resources of this great country. I hope that they will insist upon the consideration of the Tariff being gone on with at once. We need a Protectionist and not a revenue-producing Tariff. We need one which will create industry and dot factories all over Australia. I hope that honorable senators will also demand a. policy for opening up the lands of thecountry so that tens of thousands of happy families may be planted on what now is a. wilderness. 
There are one or two matters upon which one may speak on the first readingof a Bill like this more readily than upon, any other measure, or even upon a substantive motion. I wish to refer to theaction of the Government, as far as wears aware of it, in fixing the prices of foodstuffs. I desire, if possible, to learn from the Minister in charge of the Bill how we stand in this matter. Both those who buy commodities and those who produce them desire to know where they stand. Most of us have been made to look remarkably stupid in connexion with this matter. The fixing of prices seems to me to be just a part of the organization of industry. But the whole thing is ina very chaotic state at present. All that has been so far done in this direction by the different Governments appears to&gt; have been purely experimental, with theobject of discovering what the powers of the Governments are to regulate pricesfor the advantage of the people. When the Senate rose at the conclusion of the last series of meetings this matter had been discussed, and honorable senators were informed time and  again  that the Government had not the power to fix prices unless the referenda proposals were carried or martial law were declared throughout Australia. Very few members of this Parliament declined to accept that view. One or two deserve considerable credit, because, in spite of all that was said by Ministers, on the advice of the Crown Law officers, they refused te* believe that the Commonwealth Government had not the power to do these: things. I refer particularly to the honorable members for Bourke and Ballarat, who contended that the Government had the power provided they were prepared to exercise it. I have said that some members of this Parliament were made to look foolish in connexion with this matter. A number of us went up to Queensland to take part in the contest for the Wide Bayseat. We, unfortunately, lost that seat,, but that did not surprise me very much. We were continually asked in the Wide Bay district, "Why do not the Government do something to regulate prices?" 
The only answer we were able to give vas that the matter had been debated and considered, and that without a declaration of martial law the Government had not the power to fix prices. The explanation was generally received in the spirit in which it was given, and was believed by i ite people to whom it was made. After a time, however, we woke up in Brisbane to "find that a proclamation had been issued fixing the prices of flour and bread for Brisbane and the district within a radius of about 13 miles. The people said, " We thought you told us that the Government had not the power to do this sort of thing?" We had no excuse to offer. All we could say was that Ministers and the Crown Law officers had apparently altered their opinion, and had come to the conclusion that, notwithstanding what had been said to the contrary, they had the power to fix prices. We looked around .to find the reason. The only reason that I could dis.cover from, the press was contained in a telegram purporting to give the information supplied by the Acting Prime Minister to the representative of a. Melbournejournal to the effect that in the various States, with the exception of Western Australia and Tasmania, Necessary Commodities Boards had been appointed, to whom the Government had given the power to fix prices. In Western Australia it was said that the Government tried to do something in the same direction, but the Legislative Council blocked their attempt, and it was therefore necessary for the Com-' monwealth Government to step in and relieve that State from the position into which it was forced by the Legislative Council. 
I have given the information sent by wire to Brisbane, as coming from the Acting Prime Minister. 
If the honorable senator will turn up the files of Brisbane newspapers, he will find that I have stated the matter correctly. I have said that a proclamation was issued, and a week or ten days later we found the Necessary Commodities Board in Queensland issuing another proclamation. The proclama tion issued by the Commonwealth Government under the War Precautions Act was that £11 5s. per ton should be the price paid for flour delivered within proclaimed areas of the Commonwealth other than Western Australia. The price of flour in Brisbane at the time was considerably more than that, and the people naturally thought that this proclamation would afford them considerable relief. But within a week the Queensland Government issued a proclamation to the effect that the price of flour in the southern part of the State was to be £12 5s. per ton. The people then naturally wanted to know whether it was the State Governments or the Commonwealth Government that were' in power in Australia. The Government of Queensland had been fixing prices in the southern and northern parts of that State for nearly twelve months. Having acquired a considerable amount of information on the subject, they came to the conclusion that they had the power to do this. The only conclusion at which the Queensland people could arrive in the circumstances was that the Commonwealth Government had, without inquiry or information, decided,, in some rule-of-thumb sort of way, that £11 5s. per ton would be a fair price for flour within the areas covered by their proclamation. Honorable senators are, of course, aware that it is almost impossible for the same rate to be applied in Queensland as in Victoria and New South Wales, for the simple reason that Queensland grows comparatively little wheat. Only once in its history has that State grown enough for its own consumption. It is, therefore, usually dependent upon wheat grown in the neighbouring States. The price of flour was supposed to be reduced, by something like £1 per ton, but when the people read down the schedule of prices fixed, they found that the price of bread was fixed at exactly the same rate as that' which had been fixed by the Necessary Commodities Board for a considerable time previously, except in the case of bread purchased over the counter. Bread delivered at the consumers' houses was to be 4d.  for  the 2-lb. loaf, and that is the price that had been charged for a considerable time. The 4-lb. loaf is practically unknown in the Brisbane district. The action of the Commonwealth Government in stepping in, apparently without information or inquiry, and fixing prices, made the whole thing appear ridiculous. When the Federal Government issues a proclamation fixing the price of flour at £11 5s. a ton, and the State issues a proclamation fixing it at £12 5s., both Government and Parliament must look ridiculous in the eye3 of the people, who simply do not know where they are. They want to know which Government is to prevail. They know the State Government has been exercising its authority for twelve months, but they are not sure yet whether the Commonwealth has the power to do what it is trying to do. The State they know has the power permanently. The Commonwealth, apparently, claims it for the period of the War Precautions Act. Price fixing does not often redound to the credit of Governments that undertake it, more especially when entered upon without inquiry or information. Considerable research is required before even the general conditions upon which action is to be taken can be ascertained. The Queensland Government fixed the price of" meat. It took large quantities from the meat works, and in some cases distributed it. In many instances it fixed the price at which butchers could sell. Nobody imagines that the people were not paying more' than the price fixed for some portions of the beast which they required',' and even now the Government is entering into a contract with the meat works in Queensland to supply them with about 12,000 tons, which they propose to distribute through their agencies. They have begun to realize that, in addition to price fixing, they must take up the business of producing, and are now resuming large areas, which are falling in from large holdings, with the object of producing the beef required to feed their own people, because, the mere fixing of prices has satisfied nobody. I have here a number of proclamations on the matter which the average man will never see or know anything about, fixing the prices of wheat, flour, bran, and pollard. The price oi flour in New South Wales, as fixed by law by the Necessary Commodities Board in the county of Cumberland, is £11 per ton ; in Melbourne the Millers Association fixed it at £11 2s. 6d., delivered on trucks at the railway station, with a discount of 2s. 6d. for spot cash ; in Brisbane the price fixed bv the  Necessary  Commodities Board of Queensland is £1*2 5s.. yet I understand that the price nf bread in all three centres is exactly the same. Bread delivered for cash in Melbourne, Sydney, or Brisbane costs 4d. In Victoria bran is £5 5s. .per ton, pollard £6 5s. In New South Wales both are £5 a ton. In Brisbane bran is £7 and pollard £7 10s. There is, therefore, a difference between Sydney and Brisbane - although the whole matter is supposed to be regulated by Government - of £2 10s. a ton in the price of pollard, which cannot be accounted for even by the difference in the cost of wheat sent from New South Wales or Victoria to Brisbane and milled there. The Minister in charge of affairs in Brisbane advertised in his own State the proclamations issued in Melbourne on the subject, instead of allowing them to find their way all over the country - a process that might take from six to twelve months. His action, which was quite right, brought the matter under the notice of the people, and made them inquire the reason. The fixing of the price of bread is a very good thing if it can be successfully carried out, but the people of Australia require quite a number of other things just as urgently as bread, and in many cases their price has gone up considerably more than that of bread. I believe the price of meat in Victoria is enormous compared even with Queensland prices, and the same thing applies to a number of other commodities. Bread is as cheap as it has been for some time, but other commodities' have gone up. A friend of mine wrote to me the other day asking the position of the Federal Parliament and the State authorities in regard to price fixing, and pointed out how foolish we were being made to look. He said the bread question was a very small one in view of the price at which bread was being sold, and sent me a cutting from a newspaper showing what had been done in France - a country which has gone very extensively into the question of price fixing. According to this authority, a telegram sent from Paris on about 11th or 12th April last stated that the French Senate had adopted the* principle of fixing by degrees the 'maximum selling prices of the necessaries of life. The discussion asio what articles should be in the regulations was not ended. The Government proposed to fix the price of bread, meat, milk, butter, imitation butter, eggs, lard, potatoes, sugar, cheese, green vegetables, w:ne. cider, table beer, fertilizers, petroleum, and alcohol for burning purposes. 
It was proposed that the period of application should be during the war and three months after its cessation. The price of a number of commodities which the people of Australia require in their every-day life is hitting them a great deal harder than the price of bread, and, although the Government are supposed to have taken a hand, with Boards here and there inquiring, nothing practical has been done - at any rate in Queensland. The people there are at a .considerable disadvantage so far as prices are concerned, although I understand that in Sydney and Melbourne the prices are not as yet fixed by the Commonwealth Government. 
If so, there is another anomaly. According to this document, the Commonwealth Government fixes the price of flour at £11 5s., while the New South Wales Government fixes it at £11. 
I have not seen any conditions attached to the Federal proclamation ; and it is also a fact that the Millers Association in Melbourne quote £11 2s. 6d. delivered, with a discount of 2s. 6d'. for spot cash. The Sydney  Baily Telegraph  of 9th May shows that the New South Wales Government fixed the price, delivered in the "county of Cumberland, at £11 per ton. That is the sort of thing that makes us look ridiculous. If prices are to be fixed, every one should pay the same throughout Australia; but flour is fixed at £12 5s. in Brisbane, £11 2s. 6d. in Melbourne, and £11 in Sydney. Before the Government deals with a matter of this kind, all necessary information should be available, and the proclamation, when issued, should be obeyed by every one in the community. I shall be glad if the Minister will make a statement for circulation throughout the country, to let people know where they stand. We ought to know whether the Commonwealth or the States have the final say. If both have the power, it is not of much use for the Commonwealth to fix the price at 5s. above, or "10s. below, what the State fixes. The result is that none of the people are prepared to take action, and the consumer is  not benefited.  Senator Gardiner  will remember that last year I brought under Iris notice a letter from a friend of mine -who had travelled through the Northern 
Territory looking for land, and that the writer stated that the conditions of travel were very bad, long distances up to 80 miles having to be negotiated without water. This was the condition twentyfive or thirty years ago in western Queensland, but travelling there has become comparatively easy since by means of tanks and bores. My friend is a South Australian native, and has always worked on the land. He was in west Queensland shearing and droving for many years, and during the great trouble of 1890 he had to use a " purser's name " before he could get- a job. He and some friends afterwards made a success of hauling timber. A number of them who had been used to sheep came to the conclusion that there must be something in the Northern Territory, and decided to see what the country there was like. These are the very men we want to open up that sort of country. Ten of them were prepared to put in a certain amount of money and select land there, and my friend was delegated to see if land could be secured. He went overland from Winton or Cloncurry, and about three months ago when I met him in Brisbane he told me he had just come from Melbourne, where he had been to see the Minister. He told me also that he could get no satisfaction regarding the matter he went down about, and I advised him to put it on paper and send it to me. He did so, and the letter I have with me is the result. Honorable senators will understand that the matter was before the Minister some time ago, and that he declined to take action; but I am sure the Minister's attitude cannot be upheld by any member of the Senate, or even of the Government. The letter, which is date*' Olive Branch, Murgon, 20th April, 1916, is as follows : - 
With reference to our conversation in Brisbane about the Northern Territory, and my promise to write to you about the M case, I now take the opportunity of putting the. case before you in writing. M is, or was, at the time I saw him last August, a pack-horse mail contractor, carrying the mails from Bitter Springs to Borroloola, and his contract time had about a year to run, and was on the look out for a block of country to settle on as soon as his contract was up with the mail, and knowing the Territory well, wanted country on or about the Frew River, about southeast of Powell's Creek. Some time previously B saw a block of country about the Frew River with a good waterhole on it, and took it up, then hawked it round for sale, asking £100 for it, and M gave him £80 for it. M talked the matter over with me. He said he wanted a block of country with water on it, but did not think it was right that he should have to pay a Government servant the amount asked for. I told him it was a scandal, and the Federal Labour Government would not tolerate such things, and I was quite sure they did not know such things were going on. I told him I would bring the matter directly under  Mr. Fisher's  notice. 
Yes; the letter continues - 
I said, further, I would speak to the Administrator when I was in Darwin. However, I did not see the Administrator in Darwin, but spoke to an upstart in the Lands Office there about it. Now, what I say is this: M should get his money back from B, otherwise B should get the sack immediately out of the Government Service. From my point of view, that is the only clean course. The above case was the main thing that took me to Melbourne. I saw Minister Mahon, and he said he could not do anything only issue an order prohibiting Government servants from doing such things. I say if the Government does not give M redress in the way I have suggested, or on similar lines, then they are only holding out a premium for wrong-doing. These are the plain facts of the case. I do not wish you to use  M's name,  but you can use mine as much as you wish. 
The letter continues - 
I am enclosing you a letter of M's. I got from him on my return from Melbourne, which you can return to me later on. Although they are both Government servants, in a sense, there is a great difference between the two. B gets a good salary and travelling allowances, and found in horses; whereas the other man is a contractor. Under decent Labour administration, jobbing in land should not be permitted; but officialism up there has run riot. 
P.S. - Just now, by way of taking up land, or any of those that are associated with me, the Government actions there are too " crook '' for me. They are too kind to the monopolists and jobbers for my sort. I have sent word to the chap I left my horses and plant with to sell them. 
With kind regards, yours sincerely, 
Steve Hack. 
He enclosed to me a letter he had received from the man who had secured this piece of land in the Territory. That letter is as follows: - - Bitter Springs, 15th November, 1915. 

 Mr. S. Hack, 
Olive Branch. 
Dear  Sir, 
Just a line to let you know I received your letter of the 5th October. That  Elkedia  coun try we were speaking about, situated down the telegraph line, B transferred it to me without any trouble. I paid him £80 for it. There are several other blocks down that way held by Government officials, and they are only waiting for somebody to come along, so that they may sell them. I think this ought to beput a stop to. They take up the pick of the country, and stop any one from coming in. 
I have told the Minister about these cases. I understand that lately an inquiry hasbeen ordered into matters connected with the Northern Territory, principally thedisagreements between the different officials there. The gentleman appointed, T believe, is a stipendiary magistrate in New South Wales. 
Yes ; and I ask the Minister to have a full inquiry madeinto the matter I have referred to. It is scandalous, if true, that Government servants should be allowed to go aboutthrough the country, provided with, horses, and paid travelling allowances, picking up blocks of land like this, with the idea later on of getting some one- else to buy them. My friend told me that he could have got land at Cloncurry, which had been taken up by some of these people, and had been put in the hands of others for sale. I venture tothink that if  Senator Gardiner  had found such things existing in New South Wales, when he first went into that Parliamenthe would have made strong representations against the practice on the floor of the House. He would havepointed out how unfair it was that people who wanted to take up the country should be mulcted in expenses asindicated in the letter I have read to the Senate. Personally, I do not 'know anything about the matter, as I have not been to the Territory, but a friend of mine tells me that he would like an opportunity to say a great deal about the administration there. All I am asking is that the Minister in charge of the Department shall see that this matter is inquired into, and, if it is true, as this letter states, that definite action shall be taken, If the man who has made these statementsis not telling the truth, I shall have no hesitation in letting him know it, but I am inclined to believe what he says, and also the statement of the man who paid the money. The Government should lose no time in inquiring into these statements, and, if they are found to be true, should stop what is happening. 
It appears that they are. 
A few days ago I made some reference to recruiting in Australia and mentioned what is known as the " Brennan episode," in which  Mr. Watt  and  Mr. Brennan  became entangled on the question of enlistment- 
-That is the point I am coming to. Honorable senators will remember the facts of the case. 
No. I have computed the time carefully, and I find it is only ten months since the incident referred to. The circumstances, of course, are well within the remembrance of all honorable senators.  Mr. Brennan  made a speech in the Bijou Theatre, and when the report of that speech appeared,  Mr. Watt,  commenting upon it, referred to  Mr. Brennan  as a " pigeon-livered " man.  Mr. Brennan  then, in another place, challenged  Mr. Watt  to enlist. The next morning  Mr. Brennan  appeared at the recruiting station, but there was no  Mr. Watt  there. 
-Yes ; and the other night, when I referred to this matter, I mentioned that  Mr. Watt  had publicly given as his reason for not enlisting the fact that if he had gone to the front and the worst came to the worst, his children would not be sufficiently provided for. I made that statement, but  Senator Millen  - who, I am sorry to say, is not in attendance to-day, though, I might add, it is almost unique in my experience to find no representative of the "plucky five," who constitute the Opposition, present - challenged the accuracy of my statement. I gave  Senator Millen  an assurance that  Mr. Watt  had made this statement, and, from an experience of five or six years of parliamentary life, I have always understood that an assurance given by one honorable senator would be accepted by another. At all events, while  Senator Millen  doubted my assurance, I accepted his assurance that the Fusion party had been responsible for the establishment of the 
Cordite Factory, the Clothing Factory, the Harness Factory, the Woollen Mills, and the Small Arms Factory, but the Acting Prime Minister came to my assistance, and cleared up that matter.  Senator Millen,  as I have said, refused to accept my assurance, but since then I have taken the trouble to look up the files, and find that my view of the matter is correct, because, after  Mr. Watt  had failed to turn up at the recruiting station in answer to  Mr. Brennan  's challenge, the honorable member for Balaclava gave an explanation at a public meeting in the Armadale Theatre. I have here the report in the  Argus  of Saturday, 10th July, 1915. It stated that, long before the time for opening the doors, the street was crowded, and the hall was filled to overflowing.  Mr. Watt  is reported as follows : - 
I want to make a frank statement of my own position. It is three months since I began to talk to my wife with growing concern about the gravity of the situation. Right through these weeks, when we have seen the Germans capture vast harvest fields as big as Victoria, and the city of Lemberg, I have said to my wife, " I think the call will come soon." 
It had not come then, or it had not in  Mr. Watt's  opinion.  Mr. Watt  went on to say - 
And she has said, as every woman in similar circumstances has said, " When your turn comes, go; but what about the young fellows who are not volunteering? Is it not their turn first?" 
Now I come to the point of  Senator Henderson's  interjection.  Mr. Watt  continued - 
I am sixteen months within the age limit of forty-five. I am a married man. I have four children, the eldest seven years and three months. I have a sister dependent on me. The circumstances of my business and finances are these - that if I went to the war to-morrow, those children would bo indifferently provided for; but there are ways of financing that. 
That is the statement I made, and I gave an assurance to  Senator Millen  that  Mr. Watt  had declared publicly that, in the event of his having to go to the front, his children would not be sufficiently provided for. 
Yes ; this is the man who is playing understudy to  Sir William  Irvine, the apostle of conscription in Victoria. 

 - Mr. Watt, Sir William Irvine, and other men of that kidney have, for the past sixteen months, been describing as " loafers," " shirkers," and " rotters " men who failed to enlist whether they had families or not dependent on them. But, of course, what is good enough for John Smith's seven children is not good enough for  Mr. Watt's  four children, the eldest of whom is seven years and three months.  Mr. Watt  is further reported to have said - 
For Ave and a half years I held the office of Treasurer of this State, during which time the business I then held went down to nearly nothing, because I devoted nearly the whole of my time to my office. (Cheers.) 
The audience cheered  Mr. Watt  because he stated that, during his long occupancy of the office of Treasurer of Victoria, he devoted, not the whole of his time, but nearly the whole of his time, to his duties - 
My  circumstances,  therefore, are not prosperous, and no man can go to war impulsively without casting up all the facts that relate, not merely to himself, but to those who are near and dear to hi-m. No man who volunteers regardless of consideration of those he has brought into the world is worth a dUmp as a British fighting mun. I am not convinced yet that my call has come. Until the young mcn volunteer, the middle-aged men should hold back until the second call comes. 
Now I am wondering whether, in the opinion of  Mr. Watt,  the second call has come yet, or how many calls will be required to get him to go to the front. This grandiloquent  speaker,  this man who is in favour of conscription, continued to show that he was brave at heart, for, at the meeting I refer to he said, as reported in the  Argus - 
But I have been challenged by  Mr. Brennan,  and my honour and reputation for courage are at stake, and although in ordinary times I would not permit any man to decide for me, the circumstances are such that I must give a response to that challenge. 

 Mr. Watt evidently had thought it right that he should reply publicly to  Mr. Brennan's  challenge, and so he said - 
I will give it to-night. I will go to-morrow morning - (loud cheers) - at any time - (renewed cheers). 
Naturally, the people cheered when  Mr. Watt  declared that he was going, thinking that he was going to the front, and they renewed the cheers when he said he was going in the morning. But let me tell the Senate in  Mr. Watt's  own words what he said - 
I will go to-morrow morning - (loud cheers)1 - at any time - (renewed cheers) - I can arrange with the Prime Minister, cither with or without  Mr. Brennan.  . 
So it was not to the front that  Mr. Watt  was going in the morning with his fellow Australian soldiers, but to the office of the Prime Minister, to let him decide - 
I will tell him the facts of my life as I have-, roughly told you, and if he says it is up tome to go, I will volunteer within half-an-hour. 
I think this subject of enlistment is about the only one upon which  Mr. Watt  would approach anybody else on, judging by his assurance.  Mr. Watt  added - 
If  Mr. Fisher  does not care to assume the responsibility of adjudicating on this case, I shall cut my own road through the forest. 
Presumably, h&amp; is, because he has not yet cut his way through the forest. In my opinion,  Mr. Watt  and  Sir William  Irvine have had a most detrimental effect on recruiting in. Victoria.  Mr. Watt  has reached a plane, I will not say whether by ascending or descending, when he has become a publicnuisance. It is my opinion that, having placed himself in so ridiculous a position, every time he gets upon a public plat- form. for one person whom he induces to enlist, he drives five away. I think that, for one person whom  Sir William  Irvine h;is induced to enlist, he has driven ten away. 
I remarked the other night that the railway men and workers of Australia must have very short memories, otherwise every time  Sir William  Irvine mounted a platform to advocate recruiting in the name of liberty. he would be howled off it. Seeing that ten out of the sixteen months whichhad to elapse before  Mr. Watt  reached the. age of forty-five years have passed, we may well look forward to the time, six months hence, when  Mr. Watt,  like so many others who have reached that age, will be making public statements to thiseffect, " If I were only within the eligible ages, there would be no necessity for compulsion." I think the Defence Department would have been well advised, inr the interests of recruiting, if they had asked  Mr. Watt  and  Sir William  Irvine to cease addressing public meetings in Victoria. Another phase of the enlistment question carries me back to the time when this Parliament adjourned in November last. If my memory serves me rightly, the last sitting day of that period of the session was the 12th November, and when we adjourned it was believed that we would not  meet again until about the middle of May. Nothing was said at that time about the issue of enlistment cards to all the eligible men in Australia. But  two  or three days before the adjournment tooK place, in order to allow  Mr. Hughes  to go on what, in my opinion, was his self-invited trip to Great Britain, -it was announced in the press that that gentleman or the Government, on behalf of the people of Australia, had made an offer of another 50,000 troops to the Allied Forces. It was announced at the same time that cards of inquiry would be sent out to all the eligible men in Australia, asking them to answer three questions : (I) Are you prepared to enlist? (2) Are you prepared to enlist at a later date, if not now? (3) If not, why not? What are your reasons for refusing to enlist? I take no exception to questions 1 and 2. I think that no reasonable person would take, exception to them, but I do say that  Mr. Hughes,  or the Government, had no right or authority to ask men of military age in Australia to give reasons for their non-enlistment, then or at any other time. If there were good and sufficient reasons for putting these questions to the men,  Mr. Hughes,  or the Government, had no right to go behind the back of Parliament fo propound them. It must be apparent that  Mr. Hughes,  or the Government, riad the offer of troops to which I have referred, and the issue of these enlistment cards up their sleeve while Parliament was sitting, and it was not too much to expect that Parliament would be informed of the intention to put these questions to men of military age in Australia. T say that  Mr. Hughes  took too much upon himself when he put question 3 to the men of Australia. When these questions were issued, it was pretty generally believed that it was not compulsory upon the men to answer them. I think that  Senator Pearce  went so far as to make a public or a semi-public statement that no offence would be committed if those who received the cards did not answer the questions. At that time, I suppose, the issue of the cards and the whole proceedings had not been brought under the War Precautions Act. These things I gathered from the progress of events as disclosed by the Melbourne daily newspapers, because I was in Melbourne at the time. It occurred to me that  Senator Pearce  or the Government subsequently came to the decision, on the advice of  Mr. Hughes,  that by the issue of a proclamation it should be made a penal offence for any person to whom a card was issued not to return replies to the three questions. In the meantime, some Labour organizations had gone so far as to pass resolutions opposing the issue of the cards, and advising men not to reply to the questions. That was no .crime in the early stages, and it did not appear to me that it would be an offence until the whole proceedings were covered by the issue of the proclamation under the War Precautions Act. What was the attitude of Australia's Prime Minister regarding the unions which passed these or similar resolutions ? What was the effect upon  Mr. Fred.  Katz, who moved one of these resolutions at a meeting of the Clerks Union? The treatment handed out to  Mr. Katz  on that occasion was, I suppose, another instance of that British fair play and liberty that we hear so much about to-day. So far as I could judge the situation, I had every sympathy for  Mr. Katz  because of the indignity to which he was subjected and the brutality with which he was assaulted. 
I agree with  Senator McKissock  that he could not have been treated worse if he had been in the hands of the Germans. The Minister of Defence issued instructions for the apprehension of the people responsible for the assault upon  Mr. Katz,  but those who perpetrated it could not be discovered. The military police, of course, had nc sympathy with the instruction issued by the Minister of Defence. 
According te the newspapers, that was even hotter. 1 may say that I had a higher regard for  Mr. Katz  at that time than 1 subsequently had, after he in a manner withdrew and apologized for what, at the time: was but the indulgence of a natural impulse, believing that it would be no offence against the law of the land. The attitude of the Prime Minister subsequently did not appeal to me. In statements appearing in the press, and also from public platforms,  Mr. Hughes  described the people who objected to the issue of the enlistment cards as being " parasites on unionism." I am one of those who objected to their issue without the sanction of Parliament, and without the mention to Parliament of the intention of the Government to issue them, and especially to the third question, asking reasons for nonenlistment. 
Yes ; he referred in that way to those who passed the resolutions I have referred to in the Trades Hall and elsewhere. Leaving myself entirely out of the matter, I know that amongst those who objected to the issue of the cards demanding that people should give their reasons for not enlisting were many men who have done just as much for the Labour movement in Australia as has  Mr. William  Morris Hughes.  Mr. Hughes  said that they should be thrown out of the movement. He said that he would discard them from Labour and unionism, and would " cast them out like devils out of swine." 
If  Senator de  Largie will look the matter up he will find that  Mr. Hughes  was referring to those who were responsible for the resolutions passed at the Trades Hall in Melbourne and elsewhere. It is not often that the Prime Minister is unhappy in his choice of metaphors. But I should like to ask: Who constitute the swine? Is it the great Labour movement in Australia from which the devils are to be cast out? I do not think that  Mr. Hughes  was justified in making that comparison. 
He referred to the people who passed resolutions advising the workers not to return the enlistment cards. I am not prepared, as a humble member of the great Australian Labour party, as it is sometimes called, to allow  Mr. Hughes  to go behind the back of the party, and of Parliament, on vital questions like these. This is not the first, but the third, time that this kind of thing has occurred since my connexion with the party. The first occasion was at the time of the double dissolution elections in 1914, when  Mr. Hughes  took it upon himself to propose a truce to  Mr. Cook  to do away with the necessity of elections at that time. I have pointed out previously in this Chamber that it is idle for members of Parliament to talk about a truce when exploitation and robbery of the people are going on outside. Only in to-day's newspapers we read that the master bakers of Victoria are going to appeal to the High Court against the action of the Federal Government in fixing the price of a 2-lb. loaf at 3½d. If they fail in the High Court they intend to go to the Privy Council, and all the employing sections of the State are subscribing money to enable them to take their appeal to the High Court, and later, if necessary, to the Privy Council. We read recently that  Mr. Angliss,  and other meat kings, approached the Minister of Trade and Customs in adeputation, and excused the high price of meat by putting it down to the dry weather. This was when they were advocating the removal of the embargo upon the export of meat from Australia. In passing I want to give  Mr. Tudor  every credit for the action which he individually, or departmentally, and I suppose with the backing of the Government,has taken since the outbreak of hostilities in connexion with the export of foodstuffs from Australia. When  Mr. Angliss,  and the other meat kings, asked for the removal of the embargo on the export of meat to the other side of the world  Mr. Tudor  asked them how they accounted for the high price of meat, and  Mr. Angliss,  speaking for the deputation, said it was due to the dry weather. Then, some three or four months ago, we had a rather plentiful rain, though the benefit of it has, to some extent, disappeared by this. The meatking deputation again went to  Mr. Tudor  to ask for the removal of the embargo, and, in reply to the question he again asked how they accounted for the high price of meat,  Mr. Angliss.,  who had prevously stated that it was due to the drought, then said it was due to the general rains, because the people were buying the stock up torecoup their losses. 
Whatever happens, it would appear that the people must pay higher prices for meat. If I accept  Senator Stewart's  assurance that, owing to the general rains the price of beasts would go up, he must agree that  Mr. Angliss  could not have been correct on the first occasion when he said that the high price of meat was owing to the drought. We know that the controllers of the butter ring in Melbourne recently placed 500 tons of butter in cold storage, and jumped up the retail price by 3d. and 4d. a lb. When we know these things I repeat that it is idle for members of this Parliament to take upon themselves the responsibility of even talking about a truce with our political opponents, because we know that they represent the people who have been, and are to-day, unduly inflating the prices of foodstuffs. I give  Mr. Hughes  every credit for sincerity when he proposed to  Mr. Joseph  Cook that there should be a political truce. If  Mr. Cook  had agreed, it is probable that a majority of the members of the Labour party would have fallen in behind  Mr. Hughes,  and would have been prepared to honour the compact. 
I certainly would not have been one to do so. That was the first occasion upon which  Mr. Hughes  went too far in taking the destinies of the Labour movement under his control. The second occasion upon which  Mr. Hughes  ignored Parliament and the Labour party was in the dropping of the referenda. I cannot help smiling when I read the resolutions of indignation and the threats of what is going to happen to New South Wales and Victorian Federal Labour members for agreeing to that course, because it was solely due to the workers of Melbourne and Sydney that the referenda were defeated in 1913, and they, of all people, have the least right to protest. I cannot agree that the Conservatives of those two States defeated the proposals, because Labour senators in Victoria had a majority of 45,000 over their opponents. The difference between that and the affirmative referenda vote was composed of workers, manual or mental, who through apathy did not vote for the referenda, or went over to the Tory camp. If the workers in Victoria and New South Wales had come to the rescue of their comrades in the other States in 1913, there would have been no occasion for the dropping of the questions, or for the subsequent protests, because they were carried in that year by three States. I was one of those who, after the 1914 election, were not in favour of submitting the referenda to the people apart from a general election. I said their opponents had plenty of money to spend, or would soon get it, and had practically the whole press of the Commonwealth at their command, while the supporters of Labour measures and Labour men, to a greater extent than any other class, offend in not going to the poll ; and I was afraid the proposals would not be carried if put to the country between elections. Compulsory voting might have altered the position, and on its adoption I was quite prepared to see the questions take their chance; but  Mr. Hughes  did not consult the party before entering into negotiations with the State representatives, and that is my complaint. He had no right to enter into negotiations for a compromise on the matter, but he did so, and to an extent thereby became embroiled, so to speak. It seemed to me, as an outsider, that the hand of Holman was behind the whole affair, although  Mr. Holman  did not appear in any part of the proceedings. 
I believe he was the only one to do so. I think  Mr. Hughes  was afraid that the questions might not be carried if they went to the people, but  Mr. Holman's  part in the public discussions on the matter was delegated to  Mr. David  Hall, who was commonly referred to as his man Friday. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.3O to 8.35 p.m. 

After things had been set fairly in motion, it seemed to me that the Queensland Government had been made a catspaw. I noticed a great change in its members twenty-four hours after they came into power. Prior to that, most of them were whole-hearted Federalists, but no sooner had they invited  Mr. Holman  to Brisbane for the 
State campaign, and gone themselves to Sydney to confer with him, than I thought I could detect traces of the slime of  Holmanism  on them. The Labour movement in Queensland got on well for thirty years without his intervention, or that of any of his kidney, and, personally, I was sorry to see him invited to Queensland to take part in the State campaign. I have not much regard for Holman or  Holmanism.  It was suggested to the Federal candidates in 1913 that it was advisable for him to come to Brisbane, but they unanimously turned the proposal down. Many of our men who had previously been federal in politics expressed a doubt about the wisdom of submitting the referendum. Friends of mine in the Government expressed to me their fear that if these powers were transferred to the Commonwealth Government perhaps the Federal Parliament would go to the extreme limit of nationalizing hens and chickens, take over control of the family milking cow, and such like utilities. They did not use those exact words, but that was the effect of their words, and I attributed this to the fact that the Queensland Labour Government had had association with  Mr. Holman  and Holmanism.  Mr. Holman  and  Mr. Hughes  were pitted against each other in regard to the negotiations over the referendum. I have said previously that I thought  Mr. Hughes  was sincere in his belief that the referendum, if it went to the country, would be defeated, and that  Mr. Holman  thought he had  Mr. Hughes  euchred. But when " Bill " Holman was pitted against " Bill " Hughes it was diamond cut diamond.  Mr. Holman,  by his influence, was able to envelop the representatives of the other State Governments, and they thought they were getting the better of  Mr. Hughes;  but, as it turned out,  Mr. Hughes  got the better of them, because he threw upon them the responsibility of getting the agreement through their various State Parliaments for an extension of powers. Only one State - New South Wales - fulfilled the agreement.  Mr. Hughes  threw upon the various State Governments the onus of disrupting the agreement. In these days we hear a lot about the tearing up of scraps of paper. I sincerely trust that on the next occasion when the National Government goes to the country they will take the referendum questions with them, and throw the onus and responsibility of breaking the agreement on to the right shoulders - the State Governments. That is all I have to say regarding the attitude of  Mr. Hughes.  I think he made a mistake in his negotiations with the State Governments; but he had entered into those negotiations, and I, as a member of the Federal Labour party, fell in behind him for this reason : I saw that  Mr. Hughes  was acting on behalf of this party, although he did not consult the party before he entered into the negotiation, and had he, as the leader of the party, put the question to the country, we would then have had the influence of the six States against us. 
No ; he entered into negotiations, and certain proposals were adopted. 
No, not the agreement. Having had submitted to him those proposals, had he retreated and said, " No, we will not accept them," we would have had all of the State Governments, including the Queensland Labour Government, against us in the referendum. 
No; it would have had a disastrous effect upon the referendum appeal. It was proper to accept the agreement in view of the fact that  Mr. Hughes  had entered into negotiations, and the surprise of my life came when it was declared that the Queensland Government was, if not against the referendum, only passively in support of it. That Government, in my opinion, was made the catspaw, and was dragging the chestnuts out of the fire for the other States. The proposal was put forward as coming from Queensland, the " pure merino" State so far as Labour is concerned. After the agreement had been put before  Mr. Hughes  for submission to this party, we had to fall in behind. I believe that when  Mr. Hughes  comes back from England, after his association with the King and Queen, and cavorting with Duchesses, and so forth, he will find the party against him on that matter. It appears to me that the 
Tories of Australia are awaiting  Mr. Hughes'  return with a great deal of interest. 
If the workers of Australia are waiting for him, I fancy it will be to give him a welcome somewhat different from that which he has had in Great Britain. 
If he speaks for Labourism in Australia as he is speaking for it in Great Britain, I would not give very much for his reception in Australia. 
I do not think that  Mr. Hughes  ever said in Australia that class division was buried. 
It is not true. From the Acting Prime Minister's standpoint it might be buried, but it is not buried by our opponents, and I, for one, am not going to agree to the burial of class division until I find our party getting fair treatment from the other side. 
Is the Acting Prime Minister referring to his own head? I can assure the Acting Prime Minister that the sentiments expressed by  Mr. Hughes  in Great Britain are not the sentiments of Australian Labourism, and if he says they are - well, he and I differ, that is all. 
I am taking the cable reports. 
-Judging by the reports of the Prime Minister's speeches, if either  Mr. Joseph  Cook or  Sir "William  Irvine had gone to Great Britain, they would have represented 
Australian Labourism there just as well us  Mr. William  Morris Hughes is doing. 
Can the honorable senator say in what way  Mr. Hughes  has advanced Australian Labourism since he has been in Great Britain ? 
The Labour party says more than that. 
Twenty years ago such sentiments were expressed by  Mr. Alfred  Deakin. Any good Liberal would say, in a general way, that every man should get a fair deal. I object to the sentiments expressed by the Prime Minister in England as representing Labourism in Australia. 
Perhaps so, but I think the objection of Labourism in Australia will be found greater when  Mr. Hughes  comes back. 
Very likely, but, as a member of the Labour party, I am not prepared to let  Mr. Hughes  represent my views on these subjects. 
No ; but some people in Australia can, and that amounts to the same thing. I am not prepared to let  Mr. Hughes  handle the Australian Labour movement. You are aware,  Mr. President,  that at one time in Queensland the Labour movement had as a leader  Mr. Kidston,  who finally put himself above party and aboveCaucus, and a few short years afterwards he fell on the neck of  Mr. Robert  Philp, the arch-Conservative of Queensland. Probably it will not be a great stretch of imagination to look ahead to the time when we shall find  Mr. William  Morris Hughes,  Mr. Joseph  Cook,  Senator Pearce,  and  Senator Millen  in a loving embrace. I shall not object to that, perhaps, because it will be an indication of progress, and an evidence that some people are prepared to go ahead. 
No; I would regard it as a stage in the evolutionary process. If our opponents are waiting for  Mr. Hughes  to come back to take the responsibility of forcing conscription upon the country, I can assure  Senator Pearce  that I do not think he will have the Labour movement of Australia behind him. 
It is nearly time we had the views of the Government on this question of conscription. We have not had them yet. 
-No ; the only definite statement we had on the matter was from  Mr. Fisher,  who said that before conscription would be dealt with the matter would be submitted to the people of Australia. I do hot think we have had a definite statement either from the Acting Prime Minister or from  Mr. Hughes.  There is another party to be considered in connexion with the referendum question - one who is not very often mentioned, I refer to the Governor -General. It will be remembered that this House twice passed a measure for the submission of the questions to the people contingently upon there being a double dissolution in 1914. Section 128 of the Constitution provides that if a Bill for the alteration of the Constitution is passed, by an absolute majority, twice in one House, and is rejected or fails to pass in the other House, the Governor-General, as representing the King, may grant a double dissolution. Now, there has been much difference of opinion as to whether the GovernorGeneral didthe right thing in granting a double dissolution and in refusing to submit the referendum questions to the people. I think it will be generally admitted that, so far as I am concerned, I never took exception to the GovernorGeneral granting the double dissolution. No one has ever heard me voice one word of protest against that action. I took the view that, before it was taken, it would be better for the Labour party, situated as they were then, to challenge the Cook party to a double dissolution.  Mr. Fisher,  representing the Labour party, could have said to the Cook Govern ment, " We will endeavour by every means in our power to bring about the conditions which will produce a double dissolution if you will take the referendum questions to the country." I stated that view here and elsewhere. I thought it would have been diplomatic and wise of the Labour party to take that course. It would have shown our newly-arrived Governor-General that the Labour party in Australia was not out for office, but had something higher to think of, the interests of the people. That suggestion was lightly received in certain quarters. Then the Senate took the constitutional course of passing the Referenda Bills twice.  Senator Pearce,  on that occasion, delivered what, in my opinion, was a very convincing speech in support of the attitude taken up by the Senate. When the request of this Chamber was sent to the Governor-General he turned it down. He told the Cook Government that he would accept their opinion that "may" meant "must" so far as the double dissolution was concerned, but when it came to the Senate's request " may " did not mean "must" at all. 
That is the whole point. The written Constitution was torn up, so far as its application to the referenda proposals was concerned. 
I thought that the Governor-General was right in granting the double dissolution, having been advised to do so by  Mr. Joseph  Cook, who was then Prime Minister. 
I do not trouble about that in this connexion. I considered that, having granted the double dissolution, the Governor-General was inconsistent in refusing to submit the referenda proposals to the country. I have consulted other authorities since that time. I have looked to Dicey, who is supposed to be an authority on constitutional law. In his  Law of the Constitution,  seventh edition, page 534, he has an appendix dealing with this very question of the alteration of the Commonwealth Constitution. Putting aside the first part of section 128, with which we are all conversant, he goes on to the alternative, and says - 
It will, however, be noted that, in certain circumstances, a law for the change of the Constitution which has been brought about by  a.  majority of one House of Parliament, or which has been rejected, or which has not been passed by the other House by an absolute' majority, must be submitted to the electors for their approval, and, if approved in the manner already stated, it shall become an Act of Parliament. 
Dicey uses the word " must." With him there is no " may" about it at all. " May " is the command of the King, and must be interpreted as " must." I think the blame for the non-carrying of the referenda proposals in Australia rests primarily upon the Governor-General. 
Those words refer to the passing of the Bill for a change of the Constitution twice in. one House. I think that the Labour Government made a mistake in not asserting their view, and this Senate was doubly negligent in the matter. I think that  Sir Ronald  Munro Ferguson made a very great mistake in not submitting the referenda proposals to the people after having granted the double dissolution. That is the only fault  1  have to find with his decision. I do not know that I have very much more to say on the question of voluntary recruiting. Only I notice that various newspapers throughout the Commonwealth have, at different times, been strongly advocating the employment of coloured labour in various parts of Australia. Repeatedly during the past six months, and especially while Parliament was in recess, we have been reading in the leading daily newspapers in every capital of the Commonwealth advocacy of the employment of coloured labour in the Northern Territory. It is my opinion that a deeply-laid scheme is being quietly worked throughout Australia at the present time for the importation of coloured labour. We have seen leading articles in the two Melbourne morning newspapers, and also in the Sydney dailies, advocating this, and members of the Senate had sent to them an extract taken from the  Pastoralists' Review.  I do not intend to inflict it upon Honorable senators, because the contentions advanced in it are so outrageous as to be unbeliev able. But I should like to put into  Hansard  the concluding half-dozen lines of the extract, which read - 
It is a problem that can be solved, and must be solved; for, even if the question of climate did not make a White Australia impossible, the war has put an end to it. 
That is to say that the war has put an end to our White Australia policy. I have seen no action by  Senator Pearce,  the Defence Department, or the censors, taking exception to this statement. Does  Senator Pearce  agree that the war has put an end to our White Australia policy ? That has been put into print and circulation by the  Pastoralists' Review.  It has been supplied to members of Parliament, and I have seen no action taken by the censors, under the War Precautions Act, against the proprietors of the  Pastoralists' Review.  I have, however, seen that various Labour speakers and proprietors of Labour newspapers have been impeached, fined and imprisoned for giving utterance to sentiments calculated to have a detrimental effect on recruiting. Will  Senator Pearce  contend for a moment tha't the statement I have read from the  Pastoralists' Revieu)  is calculated to improve recruiting? I will give some more of the extract. I ask the Acting Prime Minister to give his attention to this - 
After peace is declared, the colour line will become more and more ^indefinable, and we shall be compelled to recognise the fact, for Britain will say to us. " Renounce your White Australia policy or suffer the consequences. Your blood will be upon your own head." 
Will the Acting Prime Minister stand up in his place and say that any action has been taken against the  Pastoralists' Review  for circulating sentiments calculated to prejudice recruiting ? If no such action has been taken, I ask why not, in view of the fact that the law has been put into operation against Labour newspapers and speakers? Why has not the  Age  been impeached for its leading articles saying that it is time that Indians were indented for the Northern Territory? If that is what Australians are going to fight for, I, for one, am not going on to a platform to encourage thiem to enlist. The sooner my constituents and I understand each other on this phase of the question the better. I say that this sort of tripe, being circulated amongst the people of Australia, has taken more recruits away from the enlisting depots than has any speech uttered by Barker, or any so-called traitorous stuff written or uttered by those holding Labour views. Yet we have seen no move by the Defence Department, under the War Precautions Act, against these newspapers. No wonder the feeling outside is growing that if the Labour Government go before the people at the next elections they will meet their Waterloo. I am prepared to give them full credit- 
I give them full credit for continuing public works, and so keeping men in their occupations. If the other political party had been in power they would have closed up all public works with the idea of driving men to the front. 
I think the Labour Government put it up. I give  Mr. Fisher  the chief blame for that in giving an outrageous rate of interest for the war loan. 
That is a question which  Senator Stewart  dealt with very ably this afternoon. Surely  Senator Russell  should agree that the interest paid on the war loans is the very last thing for which the Labour Government should claim credit. 
Let the honorable senator mention any other country in the world with universal suffrage and Labour in power as it is in five of the six States of the Commonwealth and in the National Parliament. I admit the chaos that would have been brought about had the other party been in power, through the closing up of public works, and I give the present Government credit in that connexion. I have mentioned to my friends and from the platform - and I say it here now - that but for the continuation of public works it would not have made much difference in Australia whether the Labour Government or the Cook Government was in power since the outbreak of the war. 
The greatest outrage, in my opinion, is that the Leader of the last Government - I will not say of the present Government - brought together the financial experts - the men who govern the money markets of Australia - to ask them upon what conditions they would lend money for war purposes. 
Who fixed the rate of interest for the war loans ? 
Then the more disgrace to them. 
Then so much the worse for the Government. 
I say that if the Government were to blame for giving practically 5 per cent. interest on money loaned for war purposes, so much the worse for the Government. 
The bankers and jingoes will growl whatever the Government may do. 
I have given them credit for not stopping public works, but I can go no further. 
I gave  Mr. Tudor  credit for that. 
I raised that question twelve months ago and was laughed at. 
I dealt with that this afternoon. When I was engaged in connexion with the Wide Bay byelection campaign,  Mr. Hughes  came up to the district and made a glowing flagflapping speech, but did nothing else, and on the day of the election I saw the Germans and the bankers going arm in arm to the ballot-box to vote against the Labour party. 
No, he only flapped the flag. 
He did not do very much to win the Wide Bay byelection. If the Government think that they are gaining the good graces of the people on top by sinking Labour principles and ideals to please them they are making a very great mistake. 
The Labour party is an independent party, and a member of it is entitled to express his opinion, even though he should hold it alone. My opinion is that the action of the Government in connexion with the war loan was outrageous. 
I have heard the story of the company that was " all out of step but our Jock." But I am entitled to express my opinion. If I am wrong, my constituents will deal with me. I may tell honorable senators that they did deal with me once before, but I had no complaint to make. 
I have put the matter as it appears to me. I have in terpreted the action of the Government in my own way. 
I only assumed that. I will withdraw what I said in that connexion,and will say that the bankers did not fix the rate of interest for the war loans, but that the Federal Government fixed the rate of interest and the conditions, and so much the worse for them. 
I have no intention of defending that action of the Government in the country. I shall stand apart from that policy, which calls upon the manhood of the country to give their blood in the trenches and would give the man with money a higher rate of interest for it than he ever got before. 
I think the minority against it was three. 
-Still, I am repeating my own opinion ; and I think that  Senator de  Largie and the Government, if they continue on the same lines, will find that they are out of step at the next election. 
-That is all very well. I have heard a lot about the great Australian Labour party; and expecting a great deal from Labour in power, and not being satisfied with the strides which the Labour Government are making towards the attainment of Labour ideals, I am entitled to voice my opposition to their action here. If I may not do so here, where can I do it? If I go out on to the street to talk against the enlistment policy of the present Government, which I have no desire to do, or to talk against conscription, I run the risk of being placed' in durance vile. 
I understand that there is no hall to be obtained in Melbourne for the holding of a meeting against conscription. 
I understand that an effort was made to secure a hall in Melbourne in which to hold a meeting against conscription, and none could be obtained. Whether the objection is passive or active, I do not know. 
An officious person might initiate a prosecution, and the case might be heard by a prejudiced magistrate. Prosecutions can also be initiated by the civil police. Two men who recently criticised the Prime Minister on the Tarra bank were prosecuted by the police. A man who speaks against the popular feeling runs a big risk, and the case to which I refer was the worst advertisement  Mr. Hughes  could get. 
Tho action of the Government in regard to meetings against conscription has not been all that it might have been, but since the opening of Parliament things have been somewhat modified. Yesterday afternoon, on the Yarra bank, I saw no interference by uniformed soldiers, but a few weeks ago, when Parliament was not sitting, there was trouble. I fear that if there is a protracted adjournment, with Parliament and public speakers gagged, and with our side having no press and no platform to resist the agitation for conscription, while the other people have both, the trouble will be accentuated, and, for that reason, I would urge the Government not to unduly prolong the coming adjournment. 
Most of the sitting has been taken up by representatives of what they have called the pure merino Labour State. That State might be appropriately referred to as the goat State instead of the merino State, some of its representatives are so fond of fighting. We have heard a great deal of criticism of the Prime Minister, who is held responsible by  Senator Ferricks  for quite a number of things that the Labour party have approved of. It is far too late for the honorable senator to find fault with the postponement of the referenda, of which both the Labour party and Parliament approved. 
 Mr. Hughes  is not responsible for them. Neither he nor  Mr. Holman  is to blame. As a matter of fact,  Mr. Holman's  Parliament is the only one that has carried out the agreement. Instead, therefore, of censuring "Holmanism"  we should glorify and praise it, because, apparently,  Mr. Holman  is the only honorable and powerful man in the State Parliaments. I do not think any harm oan come to our party from what has happened in regard to the referenda. The Federal Parliament agreed to that method of getting over the difficulty, and the agreement was entered into with every hope that all the parties to it would honorably abide by their promises. We kept our promise, and if the other side broke theirs, surely that is not the fault of  Mr. Hughes  or the Federal Labour party.  Senator Ferricks  should put the saddle on the right horse. Much greater good can be done for the country than by entering into this kind of discussion, or even sitting here at all. I would subscribe  to  an arrangement with the Opposition by which ten honorable members on each side could be left here to conduct the business of Parliament and the Government while the war is on, the remainder being left free to go elsewhere where they can do much more good. 
A very good suggestion. We could do a great deal more good by going there even as onlookers than by staying here to discuss matters six months old. 
It would be a calamity to introduce the Tariff now. We know nothing of the economical or industrial changes that the war will bring about, and, without some understanding of the probable relative positions of our own and other countries, we cannot undertake to pass an acceptable Tariff. 
That is due to the war; and it is a good thing that we cannot interfere with it. When the war is over, and we have some data to go upon, we shall be in a much better position to carry through the very difficult task of framing a Tariff. I have been through Tariff debates in this chamber, and can assure honorable senators that there is no subject which divides members, even of the same party, so much as Tariff questions do. 
We may dub ourselves as belonging to the same fiscal faith, but there will always be strong differences of opinion on Tariff items. I have seen as bitter a debate on fiscal matters between two Protectionist senators in this chamber as I have ever seen between a Protectionist and a Free Trader. It does not remove the differences of opinion on Tariff questions to say that we are all Protectionists. 
And another wanted the duty removed from corsets. If Parliament does not sit again for the next twelve months,' the country will not be much worse off.  Senator Ferricks,  in severely censuring  Mr. Hughes,  practically suggested that he had gone over to the enemy. I have been associated with the Prime Minister in the Labour movement for the last quarter of a century, and can say that no man in the movement in this country is better entitled to the name of the father of Labour solidarity than he is. I nave seen nothing to take exception to in the big things he is saying at Home; and the fact remains that he did big things in Australia. He has made a bigger name for himself since the war began than any other man in British or Australian politics.  Senator Ferricks  talked as if the Prime Minister's whole work was confined to flag-flapping; but I make bold to sa.y that no Labour leader in Australia has done more for trade unionism during the last decade than  Mr. Hughes  has done. These are things we should not forget, simply because he has been- patted on the back in the Old Country by people who are not usually associated with our side in politics. We are surely not jealous because  Mr. Hughes  is being made a hero or darling by the society people in England; and it would have been much better if  Senator Ferricks  could have told us in what way  Mr. Hughes  has really done wrong. Surely it is very paltry to find fault with him because he is being made much of by the press and men not usually associated with Labour ideals. 
He was the principal  speaker  at a purely Labour fathering. He has done very well, and as done only what those of us who know him expected him to do. In dropping the referenda, he did not act without consulting his party. 
The Premiersapproached him, and laid certain proposals before him. It was not until they did this that he would have anything todo with them.  Senator Ferricks  admitted that if he had turned those proposals down, and put the referenda to the country, defeat would have stared him in the face. I agree that that is so, and the onecry of our political opponents in the press was that they were not anxious to cometo an understanding about the referenda. They accused us of wanting turmoil during the time of the war. If  Mr. Hughes  had turned down the Premiers' specific proposals, he would have made an unpardonable blunder, and we should havefailed to carry the questions at the polls. 
Hughes had several conferences before those proposals were formally placed before  Mr. Hughes  ? 
I do not know it. Do you  1 
Then it is a pity the honorable senator did not tell us so in his speech. The party was consulted before we accepted the State proposals. How did  Senator Ferricks  vote on that occasion ? 
The honorable senator was in the same position as I was. Only two or three members of the party objected to the agreement on that occasion. 
It was impossible to foresee that the State Parliament* would not keep their word. It is of no use playing he after game, even if we did commit a blunder at the time. 
No; it was the only thing we could do. We have heard  Senator Stewart's  speech on the land tax so often that we know it by heart. We are not getting tired of it, but it is strange that the honorable senator, as he grows older, never gets beyond the one place. He seems to be making no advance, but is merely lifting his foot and putting it down again in the same spot. 
Yes, I have changed somewhat, so far as land taxation is concerned, and I am going to give  Senator Stewart  the benefit of my views. A great deal has been said on this question, and I intend', to compress my remarks into a very brief statement. Until enthusiastic land taxers  are able to show how their proposal is going te provide a better living, and a better rate of wage for those toiling on the soil, there is very little to be gained from a discussion of land taxation. We have heard  Senator Stewart  deal with this matter every session of the Senate for the last fifteen years. But. in my opinion, only one kind of land taxation will do any good in the direction of breaking up big estates, which  Senator Stewart  so much desires, and that is a tax upon the unused land. It is useless to talk about taxing a man on  the area  he cultivates, because in so many cases the man on the land is not making a living out of the soil. 
If  Senator Stewart  knows any one who wants to get land I can direct him to a State where hundreds of farms have been abandoned. I refer to Western Australia, where this has been the experience in recent years. Can any one say that the farmer of Australia is getting as much for his labour as the workmen in the towns? 
We have heard this so often from  Senator Stewart,  and as I have already said, he is merely lifting his foot and putting it down in the same place. The tillers of the soil are the poorest paid workers in ' the Commonwealth. Can  Senator Stewart  improve these men's condition by a further tax on their land ? That is the problem I would direct  Senator Stewart's  attention to. 
It is very wise that members of the Senate should have an opportunity on the first reading of the Appropriation Bill to discuss grievances. We have listened with considerable interest to the speeches delivered by honorable senators. Those honorable senators who listened to the admirable speech by  Senator Stewart  were  instructed, if they were hearing it for the first time. But, as  Senator de  Largie has mentioned, those of us who have been here for some years have heard it frequently, or, rather, we have heard the greater portion of it. Still the honorable senator is always interesting, and he added some new matter to his speech' today. To a considerable extent I am compelled to agree with some of his arguments, but it ie not my purpose to-night to follow the example of previous speakers, and take a long time airing grievances here. I am only going to deal, with one - though I would like to mention, several grievances. I have a serious complaint against the Home Affairs Department, and another against the Postal Department ; but I do not propose to occupy any time to-night, on those subjects. The grievance I wish to deal with is the unfortunate position in which the Senate is placed so frequently. Time after time this Senate is asked to consider and deal with four or five important measures in a few hours. When we get towards the end of a session, and approach Christmas time, there may be some excuse for this procedure j but there is no justification for it now. The Government intend to finish the business of Parliament to-morrow; but we have the Appropriation Bills to consider, and they would take all the time from now to tomorrow night if they were to receive proper attention from honorable senators. 
No, it has not. We have a month or two of the financial year to go yet. Every honorable senator should nave an opportunity of discussing the items of the Appropriation Bills. In addition, there are several other very important measures to come along from another place. We -have a Loan Bill of £50,000,000 to consider, also an important taxation Bill - the taxation of war profits - a measure with a large number of clauses. We have also an amendment of the War Pensions Act; and I say it is not fair that the Senate, which is supposed to have co-ordinate powers with the House of Representatives, should merely be given time to read Bills, and be expected to pass them without consideration. 
All I can say is that if honorable senators allow this to go on, they deserve to be treated with contempt. I appeal to the Leader of the Senate that he is not doing justice to honorable senators when he asks them to deal with important measures in a few hours, especially when those measures have, been discussed probably for several days elsewhere. If this were the first occasion that this had happened to us, there might be some excuse; but time after time the Senate is asked to deal with most important Bills without considera tion; and, if this is allowed to continue, the Senate will justify the statement made outside that it is a useless branch of the Legislature, and ought to be abolished. I protest against the proposal of the Government to finish the business to-morrow. 
When honorable senators from South Australia left their homes at the beginning of last week, there was no proposal to meet on Monday; and every one knows that members returning to Adelaide on Friday cannot leave" again for Melbourne on Sunday. If they wanted to get here for to-day's sitting, they would have had to leave Adelaide on Saturday evening. I left Melbourne on Friday, reached Adelaide on Saturday morning, and returned by the afternoon train to Melbourne, in order to be present at to-day's sitting. Other members were unable to do as I did, and probably they will not have any opportunity of discussing any measure brought forward later on to-night. I protest against this treatment, and if I cannot do anything more I shall leave the chamber. I would like to see other honorable senators tell the Leader of the Senate that they refuse to be forced into this position. Even if the Acting Prime Minister desires to go to the Premiers' Conference in Adelaide - and it is desirable that he should be present at that gathering - surely we can come back next week and do the business sent to the Senate in a way that it ought to be done ? I ask the Leader of the Senate to tell honorable senators that he agrees with me that the Senate should stand up for its rights and have ample opportunity thoroughly to consider legislation before passing it. It is not fair that we should he asked to pass in a few hours legislation which has been discussed at length in another place. 

 Senator GRANT (New South Wales [9.56]. - I disagree entirely with the sentiments expressed by  Senator Story.  For my part, I am of the opinion that after the recent recess we ought to be prepared f.o sit any length of time and to discuss matters to the minutest detail. I find we are asked to pass an item of £781,710 under the Defence Department, and I am satisfied that neither this Chamber, nor this Parliament, nor the people of Great Britain or Australia have really given proper consideration to the momentous events which are taking place. I am no pessimist, and I have no doubt as to the ultimate result of the war; but I cannot disguise from myself what appears to me to be the reluctance on the part of the people of the British Empire to get their coats off, to get into this war and to bring it to a termination. What is the position to-day ? After nearly two years of war, is it not a fact that Germany is in possession of the whole ofBelgium, of one of the fairest provinces of France, and of the whole of Servia, and has the run of Turkey in Europe and of the major portion of Turkey in Asia. She is also in possession of Russian. Poland, as well as of a large proportion of Russian soil. 
There is a very wide difference between a Queensland cattle run and places like Galicia, or Poland, or even Asia Minor. Australia is doing very well in this conflict, and I have no doubt she will do better as time  goes  on, for we have sent to the front something like 200,000 men, and we have a. large number in training. There are other matters to which I would like to refer, perhaps in some detail. I think I have heard  Senator Stewart  speak before on the subject of land-value taxation, and I think I have heard him subjected to the same criticism.  Senator Stewart  is under a complete delusion. So, also, is  Senator de  Largie with regard to this fetish which they term a Protectionist policy. The honorable senators have taken great interest in this matter for a number of years, but they have been careful never to place before the Senate the whole of the facts. They know that the fundamental objective, not of theoretical Protectionists like themselves, but of practical Protectionists, is, not to exclude foreign goods, but to secure the admission of goods made in foreign countries with high Protective Tariff and low wage rates in order that we may be taxed heavily through the Customs to keep the national exchequer full. It is a disgrace that honorable senators should stand up here time after time and attempt to deceive the Senate as to the real objective of Protectionists. 
Order ! The honorable senator is not entitled to say that certain honorable senators deliberately tried to deceive other honorable senators. 

<graphic href="079332191605225_33_0.jpg"></graphic>

The important thing is that, although the Labour Government has been returned as Protectionist, the estimate of Customs revenue for 1916 is £13,200,000. People who tell us that they believe in a Protectionist policy, and year after year see this enormous revenue derived through the Customs without a protest, do not act fairly. The result of their action is not to secure the manufacture of goods within the Commonwealth. A more sinister purpose is served, and that is to place, as  Senator Ready  said the other evening, a very large percentage of the taxation of the country on the shoulders of those least able to bear it. This, to-day and always, has been the objective of the so-called Protectionist party, including  Senator Stewart.  The estimate of revenue from the Customs for 1915-16 is £13,200,000, from Excise £3,000,000, from the Post Office £5,000,000, from the land tax £1,900,000, from the income tax £3,200,000, from probate and succession duties £500,000, and from some other sources of revenue £1,890,600, making a total revenue of £28,490,600. When of this total £13,200,000 is the estimated revenue from the Tariff, no one can call it a Protective Tariff. It is, and it always has been, a high-revenue Tariff. I well remember hearing the late  Sir John  See, when a number of. people in New South Wales were urging that the landed proprietors of that State should pay something towards the revenue, saying that if we had only a 10 per cent,  ad valorem,  duty we would hear no more of a land tax, and  Sir John  See knew this business very well indeed. To-day we see men who were elected to represent the workers of this country boldly proclaiming themselves Protectionists when they are merely high-revenue Tariffists,  and the result of their effort is to place the taxation of the country, not upon those best able to bear it, but, through the Customs, on those least able to bear it. A Tariff of this kind is one of the worst that could be imposed on the people of this country. 1 venture to say that no so-called Protectionist will stand before the electors at the next election, and say, " I am in favour of keeping" out all foreign-made goods." 
Australia, moved the following resolution from the  Bobinda  (Queensland) local committee of the Australian Workers Union : - . 
That the exemption under the Federal land tax be abolished. saying - 
The values given to land by community enterprise either belonged to the people or it did not. If it did, Governments should get the benefit of such revenue. The Federal land tax had not broken up large estates into small areas to the extent which had been hoped for when it was put forward. Estates of ?100,000 might have been brought down to  ? 70,000  and ?50,000, but this did not mean that the land had been put to its best productive uses. With a proper land tax in operation, many men now unemployed would be enabled to get land and bring it into use. If the motion were carried no evil results need be feared. 

 Mr. Rae, one of the representatives of New South Wales, said - 
There never was a time more opportune, or likely to occur again, than the present one in which to abolish the Federal land tax exemption. It had been thought at the time that this ?5,000 exemption was made in the Federal platform that it would give an opportunity to the States to exercise their taxation powers up to that amount, but the States had not fully done so. Whilst the Federal land tax had done something towards reducing very large estates, the number of large estates was now far too great. All sorts of inducements were held out for the bogus partition of estates so as to evade the tax, and that should not be allowed. The present war necessitated large additions to the revenue, and a tax without exemption would fall equally on all, and he believed in all land-owners contributing in proportion to the benefits they enjoyed. 
And the opinion expressed by  Mr. 
Lamond, also of that State, was: 
Land values of Sydney to-day were colossal. They still had land monopoly rampant in their midst, and the failure of the land tax to realize the hopes of its advocates had been foreseen. The enormous increases in land values had made the valuation fixed for land taxation purposes a mere fleabite, owners being very easily able to pay the taxation by reason of the great rise in prices brought about by the public works and enterprises initiated and expanded by the Governments. 

 Mr. Lutey,  of Western Australia, said 
Whilst the Governments of Australia, representing the people, were spending millions of money, land speculators were stepping in and reaping a golden harvest. A large sum of money was being spent by the Federal Government at Cockburn Sound, in Western Australia, railways were being built in various parts, and everywhere the land shark was on the look-out to make enormous profits out of the increased values given to land by these great undertakings paid for by the money of the people. He not only believed in there being no exemption, but felt that land nationalization was the remedy in the interests of the people. 
Remarks were then made by  Senator Ready,  of Tasmania, which were wide of the mark. Then the late  Mr. Cohen,  of Victoria, said - 
He did not think any logical argument could be put up in favour of exemptions. If it was decided to retain the exemption, there ought to be some increase in the taxable amounts over £5,000. There was no exemption for the workers, who were taxed on everything they ate, drank, and wore. 
That fact cannot be too strongly stressed. The working man receives no exemption on anything he eats, drinks, or wears, under the policy of high revenue tariffism, misnamed protection, now in force in the Commonwealth, with the sanction of the present Government.  Mr. Stewart,  secretary of the militant Political Labour Council of Victoria, is reported thus at the same conference : 
He favoured abolition of the exemption inasmuch as there was no sound argument in favour of exemption. If the thing was right as a principle, then it should operate all along the line, each payingh is proportion according to his possession.Roads, bridges, railroad and public works were erected in development of the country. Should not those who benefited by such State enterprise pay according to the share of benefits received? Was not the State - which was the people - entitled to some unearned increment in return for the services rendered? 
Later  Senator Givens  said - 
The Federal Parliament, charged with the defence of the Commonwealth, had an obvious duty to perform, and that was to remove every bar to the settlement of the country. Labour's object in that Parliament had been to free the hand from the grasp of the monopolist; to get, so to speak, within his fortifications, and shell him out. Something was attempted in this direction, but it was not done effectively. He did not think that the exemption touched the real question at all. They should not be interfering with the small man. It was no use putting the big load on the weakest horse - the one fit to carry it ought to be called upon to do so. Land taxation had two great objects, revenue raising and promotion of settlement, and it was obvious which was the greater of the two. 
I have tried time after time, but in vain, to get from the Commonwealth Statistician a return showing the number of men in the Commonwealth who own no land. If that return were furnished to me, and it ought to be, even if it costs £1,000, no public man could stand up at a Labour Conference and say, " They should not be interfering with the small man." 
There is a quorum present. 
In all municipal areas, thanks to legislation passed by a Liberal Government, the basis of taxation, subject to a vote of the ratepayers, rests with the aldermen. Throughout the whole of New South Wales nearly every municipality, so far as my memory serves me, strikes its rate upon the unimproved value of land. There are only one or two exceptions - places like Parramatta and a few other Liberal strongholds, but even in those places the great bulk of revenue is raised from taxation on the unimproved value. That system of unimproved land values taxation has done more to create and maintain open the avenues of employment than any other measure placed on the statute-book of New South Wales. I remember one case in the municipality where I lived. A certain gentleman held the premier block in the municipality, and under the old system he paid £6 9s. per year, but under the new system of taxation he had to pay over £140 per year. It is no wonder, therefore, that gentlemen of his type are opposed to this system. In Sydney, after an agitation extending over twenty-five years, although the aldermen are elected upon a property qualification, the ratepayers succeeded at the recent elections in returning a majority in favour of the rate upon land values. The building erected by the Australian Workers Union, the  World  office - a building which gave employment to a large number of men, and greatly beautified the city in every way - instead of being taxed £600 as it was last year, will find its rates reduced by about £350 this year. That is one of the results of the change in the system of taxation brought about by a council dominated by a majority of Labour aldermen. There is no exemption whatever in Sydney. The poorest ratepayer there, the man who may have only £100 worth of land, must pay up his 4d. per £1 per year, and the man who has £500,000 worth of land must pay 4d. for every £1 worth that he holds. That is the basis of taxation for Sydney. In Brisbane this system has been in operation for many years, with the best results, and I say that the sooner that the socalled Protectionist party in this country get on the track of this system and compel the land-owners of the Commonwealth to subscribe handsomely to the expenses of the Commonwealth the better it will be for the people they represent. I point out to  Senator Stewart  and others who are so anxious to have a high Tariff barrier that they are not . going to keep out foreign-made goods in that way. Those goods will still come here. And so long as the Treasury is kept full, either by an income tax or a wealth tax, a probate tax, or an Excise duty, any Government will say - " We have enough revenue to meet the whole of our expenses, and therefore it is not necessary to further tax the people of this country." That story has gone down successfully with the people for the last twenty-five years, and it will continue to be accepted. I warn  Senator Stewart  to review his position and to get hold of the facts I have related. The land values of the Commonwealth are admitted by the Commonwealth Land Tax Commissioner to be worth more than £225,000,000, excluding altogether those estates of less value than £3,000 - and there are many thousands of them. I do not wish to encroach on the time of the Senate, but I want to say that, so far as the expenditure of public money on the Federal Capital site is concerned - and I have had an opportunity of inspecting the site on more than one occasion - I am of the opinion that it has been judiciously expended. I do not care what anybody says to the contrary, and, although I would not care to put my opinion against competent engineers or architects, I have spent a large portion of my time in construction work, and I feel confident that the money spent on the Capital site has been wisely employed. I do not say that the works are in the right or the wrong place, because I do not know; but, so far as the power-house, or the dam across the Cotter River, are concerned, I think the money has been judiciously expended. I regretted to see the statement in the pressthat the £800,000 has not been wisely expended. I differ entirely from that view. In conclusion, I regret that any one has' taken exception to the representation of the Commonwealth in Great Britain by our Prime Minister. I have watched his movements as closely as I could, and, having read the major portion of his speeches as cabled, I am of opinion that  Mr. Hughes  has done even better than the most sanguine of us ever expected. Every one in the Commonwealth must applaud the courageous manner in which he dealt with the metals question, and with every other matter that he has taken in hand. With reference to the Appropriation Bill before us, I notice we are asked to vote a sum of over £3,000,000. With other honorable senators, I regret that we cannot get the Estimates before us at a' very much earlier date. I cannot understand why the Government do not employ a few more clerks to expedite this work. The Government ought to get a move on. They could do it if they tried, and I am certain the whole Parliament would warmly approve of their action if they placed next year's Estimates before us at an early date. 
I desire to avail myself of the opportunity presented to me by referring to one or two important questions before the. first reading of the Bill is agreed to. May I mention - if I am in order in so doing - the fact that, during the whole of to-day's sitting, I have not seen a member of the Opposition in his place? With  Senator Ferricks,  I am at a loss to understand the reason for their absence. So far as the Tariff is concerned, I think it is imperative that the question of revision should be dealt with at the earliest possible moment. While I have every sympathy with the Government because their leader is in another part of the world, and another Minister is not in good health, I contend that, instead of adjourning until the Prime Minister returns, Parliament should set to work to review the Tariff. Why was the Tariff not proceeded with as promised by the ex-Prime Minister and the present High Commissioner of Australia? This work wasnot undertaken because it was believed that if we started to review a Tariff during the" war, party issues would be raised. Therefore the Tariff which was placed on the table of the House of Representatives in October, 1914,. has been allowed to remain in its present indefinite shape. Parliament has not attempted to review it. Although it is supposed to he a Protective Tariff, it is an absolute abortion. I am speaking as a pronounced Protectionist. The records of the Customs show that, since the Tariff became operative in 1914, the revenue from Customs has increased monthly. 
For a time. But while the revenue has been increasing under the existing Tariff our industries in Australia have not been progressing. 
Yes; but I believe that the increases in our industries is the result of the war, and is somewhat fictitious. 
I admit the Tariff is an improvement on the old Tariff, but it is not what I would desire, by a long way. 
I maintain, therefore, that it is the duty of this Parliament immediately to revise the Tariff, in order to make it more in accord with the desire of the people of Australia so far as protective duties are concerned. The inflation of revenue experiencedis not due to the Tariff at all, but to the abnormal conditions under which we are living. It was contended, as I have said, that if we discussed the Tariff during war time, we would raise party issues, and so a party truce was observed. But when the ex-Prime Minister was appointed High Commissioner, was there then a party truce? Was that party truce observed, and were party issues sunk? If they had been, there would have been no contest for the representation of Wide Bay in the House of Representatives. Our friends of the Opposition immediately took advantage of the opportunity to set aside the party truce and placed a candidate in the field for the Wide Bay seat. 
I dare say they specialized in that regard. I want to connect my argument of the non-revision of the Tariff, because there was a temporary party truce, with the fact that our opponents seized the first opportunity that offered itself during the war to introduce party warfare. There is another reason why the Tariff should be revised immediately, and made more Protective in its incidence. To-day we have something like 500,000 people engaged either in the manufacture of war materials," munitions, clothing, boots, saddlery, and so on, or in the game of war itself. I take these figures from a speech made by the Minister of Defence. As  Senator Stewart  said this afternoon, should peace be suddenly declared - and, God willing, I wish it was declared to-night - we should find ourselves faced with the problem of finding other avenues of employment for these 500,000 people. What are we doing in the meantime to prepare those avenues of employment? The Acting Prime Minister has announced that it is the intention of the Government to direct by legislation the investment of capital with a view to meeting the post-war problem. Whilst that is very good and necessary, I say that if we had a proper Traiff  it would solve the problem for us more effectively than it can be solved by the projected legislation of the Government. I leave the Tariff for the moment and deal with the price of foodstuffs. I asked the Acting Prime Minister recently the reason for the high price of meat in Western Australia, and what the Federal Government intended to do in that matter. The reply I received was that the cause of the dearness of meat in Western Australia was that ships could not be obtained to bring cattle from the northern parts of the State. The honorable senator went on to say that the Federal Government would assist the Western Australian Government to provide ships to bring the cattle from the north. He has since made a "public announcement that the Minister of the Navy is doing this. 
I am very glad to hear it. But there is a graver question than the price of meat in Western Australia to be considered, and that is the price of foodstuffs throughout the Commonwealth. The Government would be well employed in engaging the attention of this Parliament to consider the control of foodstuffs generally, which certain people are exploiting to-day at the expense of the wives and children of the men who have laid down their lives for the country on the slopes of Gallipoli or who are prepared to lay down their lives for it in other parts of Europe. To their credit, be it said, the Government have fixed the price of bread and of sugar. I understand that the price of bread has been fixed under the provisions of the War Precautions Act. What I want to point out is that the Federal Government having fixed the price of the loaf, the Government of Victoria threatens to test the validity of their action before the High Court. 
At any rate, there was a threat to bring a test case before the High Court as to the constitutionality of the action taken by the Federal Government. If we have power under the War Precautions Act to fix the price of the loaf, we can fix the price of butter, tea, sugar, milk, and every other commodity necessary to the people. I am not a lawyer, constitutional or otherwise, but am speaking from a common-sense point of view. It would be a wise thing on the part of the Federal Government even to strain the Constitution and risk the validity of their action by a test case in the High Court, if at the same time they relieved the pressure of the daily increasing cost of living upon the people. I applaud them for fixing the price of the loaf, but I wish they would fix the prices of other commodities as well. I quote the opinion of a very eminent constitutional lawyer, who is a member of this Parliament; I refer to  Sir William  Irvine, who has said that, in a time of war, the Government of a country can do practically anything. This is a time of war. We are sending our best and bravest to the scenes of slaughter on the battle-fields of Europe. Their wives and children are in a manner assisted by the Federal Government, but without anticipating a measure yet to come before us I say that they have not given, and do not contemplate giving, assistance to the extent I should like. Instead of adjourning the session until  Mr. Hughes  comes back, valuable as he is to Australia, and great as is the work he has done, and is doing, in Great Britain, the wisest thing the Government could do would be to propose an adjournment until next week, ' and let us reassemble to discuss the problems presented, not only by the war on the battle-fields of Europe, but also by the war in the homes of Australia, where men and women are to-day wondering how they are going to make ends meet with the exorbitant prices that are charged for food. If the householder appeals to a member of a State Parliament he will be told that the State Government does not feel inclined to move in the matter. If he appeals to a member of the Federal Parliament he will be told that the Constitution does not allow us to move. Then, I say, put the Constitution on one side for the moment, and as we are dealing with abnormal conditions, due to the existence of war, let this Parliament assume full powers. The other fellow damns the Constitution, but we are too timid to do so, and we allow things to go on as they are. I say, advisedly, that it is a crying shame that, in the Commonwealth to-day, despite the fact that we have seven Parliaments, there is apparently not one that can come to the rescue of the worker, who is struggling with a small wage to meet the high cost of living. Surely to God that is a war that we can meet, and some action can be taken in fighting this war against the food exploiter. The war on the battle-fields of Europe is certainly a very serious one. It is a cataclysm in which the world is involved, but those of us who are in authority here should remember that there is in the Commonwealth a war, in some cases, a hunger war, because we have men who are deliberately increasing the prices of foodstuffs, knowing that there is no Parliament in Australia that is willing, or, if willing, has the power to deal with them. There is only one other matter to which I desire to refer, and it concerns the relation of the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act to the War Pensions Act. I have here a letter from the Department of Defence in connexion with the separation allowance. It refers to the case of a  Mrs. Cradden,  of Quarry-street, Fremantle, Western Australia. She is in receipt of an old-age pension, and cannot get the separation allowance usually made to the relatives of soldiers under certain conditions. The letter reads - 
Defence Department, 
Melbourne, 25th October, 1915. 
Dear  Sir, 
With further reference to your memo of the 18th inst., written on behalf of  Mrs. M.  Cradden, c/o  Mrs. J.  Beverage, Quarry-street, Fremantle, Western Australia, I now beg to inform you that separation allowance, which is quite separate from, and additional to, an allotment of the soldier's pay cannot, it is regretted, be paid to the recipient of an old-age pension. 
The soldier can, of course, make an allotment in his mother's favour, which it is presumed, has been done in this case. 
Regarding war pension, this question has been referred to the Deputy Commissioner of Pensions, War Pensions Board, Railway Buildings, Flinders-street, Melbourne, who has been asked to communicate direct with you on this matter. 
Yours faithfully, 
T.trumble, 
Acting Secretary. 
I have here a letter addressed to myself in connexion with a similar matter - 
Maylands, 14th January, 1916. 
Dear  Sir, 
Just a line to thank you for all the trouble you have taken  re  the pension. 
I still hope the Act will be amended, as there are sure to be numbers of aunts who have brought up children, as I have done, and who are entitled to the pension quite as much as any other relation. 
Thanking you for your exceeding kindness, 
Yours sincerely, 
H. Hervey. 
I do not want to claim just now that the separation allowance should be included, but I think it is only right that the War Pensions Act and the Invalid and Oldage Pensions Act should be administered separately and independently of each other. If a dependant of a soldier is in receipt of an invalid or old-age pension that should not prevent the dependant receiving a separation allowance. In order to buttress my contention, a,part from the separation allowance, I shall quote a statement of the Minister of Defence, to be found at page 5620 of  Hansard  for 1915. I asked the honorable senator - 
Will an invalid or old-age pension, received! by a dependant, be set off against the pensions, to which that person is entitled under this. Bill? 

 Senator Pearce replied 
The pension, payable under this Bill, will not be determined by the amount any person is receiving under the Invalid and Old-Age Pensions Act, but will depend on the amount of his dependence upon the deceased or incapacitated soldier. 
Later, in concluding the debate on the subject, the Minister summed up the contention I wish to make in these words - 
So far as this Bill is concerned, the amounts paid under the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act will not be a set-off against any claim for a war pension. As to whether any amounts paid under the War Pensions Act can be set off against any old-age pension claim, I am not prepared to say; but no amendment of the Bill before us can amend the Invalid and Oldage Pensions Act. However, as it would be inconsistent for the Committee to say that a pension payable under the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act is not to be a set-off against the claim under the War Pensions Act, and then to declare that a war pension should be taken as a set-off against an old-age pension, I shall submit the point to the Attorney-General, and if the Government find that a war pension can be set ofl" against a claim under the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act, they will amend that Act, in order to make the same provision as we find in the Bill before us. 
Will the Minister, when replying, promise to bring in a Bill when we resume, in accordance with his statement, so that each Act may be independent of the other? 
I do not want the dependant of a soldier, if in receipt of an old-age pension, to be debarred from getting a war pension ; aor do I want a person getting a war pension to be debarred from receiving the old-age pension, provided the full amount does not exceed the amount provided under the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act. The amount received under the War Pensions Act ought not to be set off against the claim for an old-age pension. The Labour  party  glory in the fact that they were instrumental in putting the Old-age Pensions Act on the statute-book; but we never dreamt, until nineteen months ago, that we would be faced with the conditions we are facing to-day. We desire that Act to be left intact, so that those who establish their- right to pension* under it may not be deprived of one penny to which they are entitled because some one near and dear to them has offered up his life as a sacrifice on the altar of the world's liberty. I do not think that is the intention of the Government. The statement of the Minister of Defence sets out, I think, their real intention; and I urge them to put it intopractical operation as soon as possible. 
I was glad to notice, by this morning's press, that we were within reasonable distance of getting the extra 6d. for the wheat delivered under the Government scheme; but the announcement ought to have been made, not by a State Minister, but by the representative of the Commonwealth on the Board. A State Minister who usurps the position which belongs of right to a Commonwealth Minister, should be told plainly that it is not his place to make the announcement. I trust that the big sale of wheat just announced - amounting to £2,500,000, will enable the Board to make the 6d.  advance  to the growers. Now is the all-important time to make the advance so that growers may put in extra seed. If it is not made soon, a reduced area will be put under crop, a reduced amount of wheat produced, and less labour provided. That sale provides half the necessary money. If the whole £4,000,000 is paid to the growers, the overdraft will be about £13,000,000, which will be at least £2,000,000 less than the banks agreed to as a maximum.1 I hope the Minister will see that those in need of the extra instalment are told about it straight away, and that the money will be available. I am glad to see that the note issue is in so sound a position. The gold reserve of £15,000,000 still offers a large margin for an increased issue. If the gold reserve is kept at 30 per cent, the note issue can be increased, should the Government want money to prosecute the war. Thirty per cent is about 6s. in the £1 ; but when the leading bankers gave evidence before a Boya1! Commission in Sydney, eighteen years  ago, the general managers of the Bank of New South Wales, the Union Bank, and the Bank of Australasia, agreed that 3s. 4d. was ample to redeem the notes of any bank. If 3s. 4d. was- enough for private banks, it ought to be even more than enough for Commonwealth notes, which have the whole security of the country behind them; and on that basis, we have in the note issue alone a margin of some £47,000,000 available for war purposes or internal development. 
That is open to question; but we are, at any rate, entitled to attach a great deal of weight to the opinions of those leading bankers, and the Government can, on their authority, enlarge the note issue with perfect safety. The Treasurer's proposal to exempt agriculture from the War Profits Taxation Bill indicates a safe course. I do not appeal for special treatment for agriculture, but the industry has no particular form of protection, either by bounties or import duties. 
I am prepared to give- sugar a long trial, and am ready to pay sufficient for my pound of sugar to insure the sugar lands being kept cultivated and productive. I believe it is a wise policy, although the time may come when our sugar production will exceed our consumption, and we shall have to look to foreign markets to take the surplus product. So far the consumption has outrun the production. When production equalizes the consumption we shall have a problem for solution. In addition to exempting agriculture from the operation of the war profits tax the Government will be well advised to go a step further and exempt the mining industry. That industry is deserving of special protection and encouragement. It is particularly a pioneering industry. Under the glamour and attractiveness of gold and other metals men have been encouraged to go far and wide throughout the continent, and the hardihood they have displayed in chasing the elusive metal has established the ability of our vacant areas to support large populations in comparative comfort. Therefore the mining industry has played an important part in giving employment to our people. The prices of the products of mining are mostly fixed. There is no chance of raising the price of gold. The price of silver and copper is regulated by the market price throughout the world . Whatever happens in Australia cannot increase it. The price of silver now is what it has been for years. Copper has advanced in price a little, and the same remark applies to lead; but, generally speaking, the values of the mineral products of Australia are fixed by international arrangement, or increase so slightly that it is not worth whilebringing the mining industry within the scope of the war profits tax. 
That is another reason for exempting it. A man whoputs his money into a commercial enterprise can be satisfied that with reasonable management he at least will get his money returned, but in the majority of cases the man who puts his money into mining loses it, as many honorable senators know from experience. On account of the unstable character of the industry and the large element of risk associated with its development, the Government would be well advised to exempt it along with agriculture. 
All other industries can well afford to come within the scope of the tax. I would feel inclined to go further than the Government in regard to the share of the profits to be taken. Men should not be encouraged to make profits out of the necessities of war time; but if we go to the bedrock and took the last penny of what might be regarded as profit earned through the war there would be no incentive to make profits, and various dodges might be resorted to in order to evade the tax. Balance-sheets might be produced which would puzzle a Philadelphia lawyer if he endeavoured to pick out what the profit had been; so that while I might feel inclined to get right down to the bone in order to secure the last penny of war profits, I realize that the very act of doing so might raise difficulties which would hinder our efforts in that direction. A tax of 50 per cent. is a very fair proposal, but if the Government wish to take 75 per cent. they will have my support. 
I notice that there is no longer any intention on the part of the Government to carry out the standardization of the railway gauge from Port Augusta right to Fremantle, but I think that they can well afford to meet the Western Australian Government half way. The statement of the Treasurer is that the Government have turned down the proposition, and that they are not willing to bear a share of the interest or a share of the extra expense in which the Western Australian Government might be involved in widening the gauge between Kalgoorlie and Fremantle. I urge the Government to reconsider this decision and share a portion of the interest burden. As representing the taxpayers throughout the Commonwealth the Government have some tangible interest in the completion of the line on the standard gauge, and it is only fair that they should bear a portion of the extra expense that will be involved in doing; so. The difference of gauges throughout the Commonwealth cannot continue for' all time. They are an unfortunate legacy inherited from the so-called statesmen and politicians who have preceded us. We hear a mighty lot said about what they have done for Australia, but when we recall the legacy of trouble, disadvantage, inconvenience, and positive loss handed down tousby our predecessors, we are appalled at the thought of such men having been suffered in their time. We have as a legacy from them a disjointed railway system, as  Senator Stewart  has pointed out so consistently. We have a woeful legacy in the wayin which the public estate has been parcelled out, and we have also congested areas around the big centres of metropolitan population as a result of the inaction of the politicians who preceded us. Looking at the map of Australia, one can see that there was no coherence, and no idea of a unified system; no attempt at coordination in having our railways built along common-sense lines. The present state of affairs must come to an end some day, and the railways will be standardized; they cannot continue as they are, offering a positive inducement to any invader who may have designs on this country to come and es_tablish himself, on account of the way in which they lend themselves particularly to his operations and designs. If we have any intention to safeguard the future of this country, we must unify our railway systems; but it is obvious that the whole of the railways cannot be standardized at the same time. The interest burden of the State whose railways are standardized first will have to be borne by somebody. Obviously, we shall not ask the State to bear it. Therefore, if we set up the principle of giving financial relief to the State whose railways are first standardized, we shall be only applying that principle to Western Australia if the people of the Commonwealth bear the whole of the interest burden, or at least a reasonable share of it, in connexion with the cost of completing on the standard gauge the railway from Kalgoorlie to Fremantle. That point must be taken into consideration soon. It was admitted by  Mr. Fisher,  when head of the Government, that when the work of standardizing the railways of Australia is undertaken, the extra cost in those States where the railways "will be altered to the standard gauge will be a common burden on the whole of the taxpayers of Australia. And rightly so. If therefore, when the work of bringing these disjointed railway systems on to a common-sense business basis, with one standard gauge throughout the Commonwealth, is undertaken, the individual States are not to bear their own share of the burden, we ought to apply that principle to Western Australia in regard to the interest bill for the cost of widening the gauge of the line between Kalgoorlie and Fremantle. That is the only point of difference that remains in dispute between the western 
State and the Commonwealth. The  Western  Australian Government are able to do the work, but, naturally enough, they are not going to saddle themselves with an interest burden of £140,000 per annum simply to accommodate the Commonwealth. 
The cost of widening the link between Kalgoorlie and Fremantle is estimated at £2,400,000, I think. 
In these days, the question is not, "What is a million?" but "What is fifty millions?" If the Federal Government desire that railway to be widened - and I should like to see it widened - they will have to display more business tact and a wider outlook than to ask the western State to bear the whole interest bill, as well as find the money for carrying out the work. They will have to approach this question in a more liberal spirit than in the past. I believe that a fair adjustment would be to cut the difference, the Commonwealth paying half the interest, and the State the other half. It is of no earthly use for the Commonwealth to say to the western State, " We will lend you the money, but you must pay the interest bill, and be responsible for the principal." If the Federal Government desire the railway to be built to convenience the people of the Commonwealth and to insure the completeness of our defence system, the Commonwealth should be prepared to bear a portion of the cost. 
I would not mind that, but Western Australia will not sell any portion of the railway. The Commonwealth asks the State to widen a railway, and the State naturally replies, " If you desire the railway widened to advantage yourself and to insure the defence system being put on a proper basis, why are you not willing to pay a portion of the cost? You are calling the tune, and you ask us to pay the piper." I repeat that the Federal Government should approach the question ' in a more liberal and national spirit than it has up to date. 
That is a horse of quite another colour. If we desire to be sure of having a fine stretch of 4-ft. 8J-in. gauge railway stretching from Port Augusta to Fremantle, it is unfair and unbusinesslike to ask one State to pay the whole of the cost of standardizing the Kalgoorlie-Fremantle section. If the Government regard it as a good business proposition for the Commonwealth, they should say to the State, " We do not wish you to bear all the cost. As the representatives of the taxpayers of the Commonwealth, and recognising the advantage and benefit the railway will be to the taxpayers as a whole, we are prepared to pay some portion of the interest bill." The Government have not said that up to date, and that is why I am urging on them to look more closely into the State point of view than they have done in the past. If negotiations are to be continued in this matter, no time is to be lost, because the huge plant at the western end will be out of action about the beginning of next year, and if the Government are in earnest regarding the widening of the section from Kalgoorlie to Fremantle, something should be done promptly, so that this plant and the men now employed on the east-west railway may be employed to complete the work. 
There is plenty of money . If we are to accept the bankers as a guide to the way in which the note issue could be worked, there is £47,000,000 worth of money not touched yet. 
I notice from the Budget-papers that a sum of £3,379,000- which is much less than we expected - has been allocated from revenue towards defraying the cost of the war. The war itself has cost us something in the neighbourhood of £44,000,000, so that we are not putting up a record so far as meeting the expenditure out of revenue is concerned. Our efforts are far below those of other countries in bearing the cost on our own shoulders and not passing the burden on to posterity. What we have provided from revenue as compared with what we have raised by borrowing is as £1 to £11, whereas, in the case of other nations, the ratio is much higher. We might, with advantage, follow the example of the British Government during the Peninsular War, which cost £1,073,000,000, of which huge sum the taxpayers contributed no less than £330,000,000 odd, and passed on about £660,000,000. 
They did not pay their men as we do now, but had a rotten system of hiring men from rulers on the Continent. We were led to believe, when the war measures were before Parliament, that we should be able to raise a much larger sum. The estimated revenue from succession duties is, according to the Budget, £500,000, whereas we were led to believe that these would yield £1,000,000; but, apparently, rich men are not dying fast enough to see the Government through their trouble. An increased rate of land tax was imposed on large estates throughout the Commonwealth, and this, according to the Vice-President of the Executive Council, was, undoubtedly, a war tax, and a tax, as admitted by the leader of our party, which can well be resorted to in war time. 
We ought to get much more than we do. 
It is £1,700,000. 
By the tax on leaseholds, the land tax is responsible for £357,000 more finding its way into the Treasury during the current financial year. The income tax is also a war impost. 
That is so. The income tax is' estimated to yield £3,200,000. The three measures - income tax, death duties, and increased tax on large estates - were introduced and passed through Parliament with the avowed object of devoting the proceedings towards the cost of the war. 

 Sitting suspended from 12 midnight to  12.80 a.m. (Tuesday). 
When the sitting was suspended, I was pointing out the discrepancy which exists between the intentions of the Government in connexion with certain Acts which were passed for the purpose of raising revenue for war purposes, and the application of that revenue after it had been collected. The Treasurer stated, when he was dealing with the Budget-papers, that* for the current financial year the 'amount of revenue devoted to the prosecution of the war was £3,379,000. Yet he estimates that the income tax will produce £3,200,000, the death duties £500,000, and that the increase in the amount collected from land tax during the present year was £357,000. In other words, a total of £4,057,000 was collected from these sources, and was to be exclusively devoted towards defraying the cost -of ihe war. Bui we now find that out of that sum only £3,379,000 has been applied to that purpose, leaving the huge sum of £678,000 to be accounted for. I think that this discrepancy calls for some explanation on the part of the Leader of the Senate. In regard to the increased amount collected under the land tax, it may possibly be held that the Act authorizing that increase was intended to have a different effect from that assigned' to it by Ministers. But  Mr. Fisher  distinctly gave this country to understand that a larger revenue from land taxation was justified in war time. 
At any rate the accounts have been disturbed to the extent of nearly £700,000, and, consequently, the loan funds had to be resorted to in order to finance our share of -the war. 
The reference in the Budget-papers to the Commonwealth Bank is one which calls for some comment. The statement is there made that the Bank charges different rates of interest for advances to different classes of customers, ft charges ordinary customers 6 per cent., charitable institutions 5 per cent., and municipalities and incorporated bodies 4^ per cent. Whilst I admit that 6 per cent, is a vast improvement on the rate which has hitherto obtained, it does seem an anomaly that persons engaged in the development of our resources should  bes  charged 6 per cent, by way of interest on. advances made to them, whilst incorporated bodies are required to pay only 4£ per cent. What is the position to-day  I  A municipality usually follows a certain, amount of settlement in the country. Soon after its appearance the ordinary conveniences of life, such as roads, water works, and electric light, follow. But the man who goes to cultivate a piece of land cannot obtain an advance at 4£ per cent. 
I suppose that that accounts for the difference in the rates of interest charged. It seems to me that the Commonwealth Bank is following strictly on the lines of other banks, and I imagine that from stress of circumstances it is compelled to do so. But if the Government could, by way of a subvention, compensate that Bank for making advances to our producing interests at the same rateas it charges to incorporated bodies, they would be doing something of broad, national significance. I am inclined to dispute the statement of the Assistant Minister in regard to the value of the security offered. It is true that the security of a. municipality may b© better than that of the average farmer, or the average small industry which is struggling and in need of -assistance j but if anything; like ordinary care were exercised, the Commonwealth Bank would incur very little risk in making advances upon broad acres to the individual at the same rate as it charges to corporate bodies. Indeed. I question whether, in view of the margin which is always insisted upon by financial institutions, the Bank would incur any risk whatever. Of course, in the old days, when our banks were run on wild-cafe lines, there is no doubt that they incurred a great deal of risk. In the early nineties, in your own State,  Mr. President,  banking was carried on on such a lavish scale that it was extremely risky to make advances on account of country interests. But we have progressed very much since then, and now money loaned to municipalities, incorporated bodies, and Road Boards is furnished principally to provide the facilities for the people, and the risk involved is very small. I believe this Government' should take into  consideration the question of giving to the Commonwealth Bank the difference between the rate of interest charged to the ordinary country interests and that charged to incorporated bodies. By that means it would, in word as well as in deed, be encouraging the industries of the country in a much better way than hitherto. That is all I have to say on that point. I deplore the fact that the expenditure, both from loan and revenue for the extension of. our telegraph and telephone systems, shows a remarkable shrinkage,, while in many other directions where curtailment might be expected there have been substantial increases. 
I would point out to the honorable senator that this matter could be discussed much better in Committee. 
I would point out to the honorable senator that there is a limit to the scope of the discussion! An honorable senator must not anticipate discussion. The first-reading debate is for the express purpose of allowing honorable senators an opportunity to speak: on things which he might not afterwards have an opportunity to refer to. It is contrary to the Standing Orders to discuss, on the first reading, matters which can be more conveniently discussed at a later stage of the Bill. 
I just want to say a few words in reply to questions that have been raised during the course of the debate. In reply to  Senator Lynch's  remarks concerning the Kalgoorlie-Premantle section of the Western Australia railway, the Commonwealth made the proposition that it should widen the line, but we thought that, if we did that, the line ought to be owned by the Commonwealth. We did not think it fair for the State to own the line while the Commonwealth had to bear the loss, or any portion of the loss, on its working.  Senator Turley  raised a question in connexion with the Northern Territory land settlement. Some of his statements were certainly of a serious character, and I can only say that Ministers here have no knowledge of the circumstances he related, but we shall certainly bring them under the notice of the Minister of External Affairs.  Mr. Barnet,  a Police Magistrate of New South Wales, has. been appointed to go to the Territory to conduct an inquiry, and we shall certainly suggest to the Minister of External Affairs that the statements made by  Senator Turley  might very well be investigated by that gentleman when he is in the Territory. It is undesirable that officers of the Department should be in any way associated with land speculation, as appears to be the case if the statements put before us are not capable of contradiction.  Senator Needham  raised the question of a separation allowance to mothers of soldiers in receipt of old-age pensions. Where separation allowances are paid, it is presumed that the soldier is a householder and requires the money to enable him to support his household. This is a payment by the Commonwealth Government, and the same Government pays the old-age pensions. Now, obviously, it is undesirable to place the Commonwealth payments in watertight compartments. If we are paying a woman 10s. per week as an old-age pension, that is equivalent to what she would receive as a separation allowance were she dependent upon a soldier. The position with regard to the other question raised by  Senator Needham  - the relation between old-age pensions and the war pensions - is that, under the War Pensions Act, old-age pensions are not taken into consideration, but under the Old-age. Pensions Act the income of a pensioner is taken into consideration. Thus, if a person is in receipt of a certain sum of money as a war pension, that fact is borne in mind when the amount of the old-age pension is fixed. Here, again, I would point out that the payments are borne by the same taxpayers in each case, and, although they are made under two different Acts, they are payments for sustenance by the Commonwealth Government, and it seems equitable that the Commonwealth, in fixing the amount of sustenance, should take into consideration what a person is already receiving.. That is the principle underlying payments under the Old-age Pensions Act, and it seems to be an equitable one. If the payments were placed in watertight compartments, as if they were made by independent outside bodies, there might be something in the contention. Supposing a woman were in receipt of 10s. per week as a war pension, she might be entitled to another 10s. per week as an old-age pension, making £1 in all. But if she were receiving 15s. per week as a war pension, she would be entitled to only 5s. per week as an old-age pension, bringing the total payment up to £1 a week. 
It is the old-age pension that is determined by the income received. If a woman is in receipt of 10s. as a war pension, she may be entitled to another 10s. as an old-age pension, provided that she has no other income. If she is in receipt of 15s. as a war pension, she gets 5s. as an old-age pension. In each case she would get from the Commonwealth £1 per week, and in each case the amount would be taken from the same taxpayers. 
The honorable senator has been harping on that statement for a very long time, but though I have not had the time to hunt through  Hansard,  I am quite sure that I have more than once explained the circumstances under which that statement was made. 
That would be a case where the woman was not totally dependent on her son. 
What I mean is that it would be a case in which, in the opinion of the War Pensions Committee, she. was not totally dependent on her son. la fixing the war pension, the old-age pension would not be deducted, but the war pension is taken into consideration infixing the amount of the old-age pension. 
That is what I have said. 
 Senator Lynch  opened up a very tempting discussion on the war profits measure, but as it is to come before us later, I do not propose to go into that matter now. With regard to what was said by  Senator Ferricks,  I regret that he saw fit to make the statements he did concerning  Mr. Hughes.  I am sure that if the honorable senator knew  Mr. Hughes  better he would be under no misapprehension that that gentleman would deviate from the course he has always pursued in regard to the Labour movement. In connexion with the war,  Mr. Hughes  has said nothing in Great Britain which differs from what he said here. He takes an enthusiastic interest in the war, and is determined to see it through to a successful issue and to bend the whole power of the nation to that end. All his speeches before he left here were in that direction, and his speeches in England have been consistent with that line of policy. I know that  Mr. Hughes  has not neglected any opportunity that has presented itself to put before the people of Great Britain their duty to the working classes in that country. He told them in straight and unmistakable language that if Great Britain was to hold her place amongst the nations she must not only win in this war, but must give to her people the opportunity to earn a decent living.  Senator Ferricks  took exception to the war census questions. I should like to put this view to him regarding the third question asking reasons for non-enlistment. I think he may not have given it consideration. It was found that, notwithstanding all the publication that has taken place concerning pay allotments, separation allowance and pensions, there was still a great number of people who were not aware of what, as regards the provision made for him, would be the position of a man who enlisted. One of the objects which the 
Government had in arranging for the submission of the third question was to enable the people who were willing to enlist, but refrained from doing so because of some misconception as to what their position would be if they did, to reveal that to the confidential committees and so enable the committees to meet them and explain the position. A large number of the replies that have been received indicate that the third .question served a useful purpose in that way. Many men have given as the reason why they did not enlist that they did not think they could afford to do so, because they had a family, or had some one dependent on them. The confidential committees have been  able  to put before these men the true position as regards pay, separation allowance, pensions, and so on, and in many cases have bean able to remove their objection to enlist.  Senator Ferricks  has said that he did not object to the appeal, nor could any reasonable man object to it. There are a number of people who do not think very deeply on these questions. They take them light-heartedly, and sometimes even flippantly. It was the desire of the Government to see that «very citizen in the Commonwealth or military age should be faced with the issues involved in the war. Having had that explained to them, it was for them to decide whether, with that knowledge, they would enlist. What objection could there be to that?  Senator Ferricks,  as a politician, knows how difficult it is to get many people to take an intelligent interest in political questions. He and others have to take the stump to explain and  explain again many questions which, to politicians, appear to be quite simple. The confidential committees have done very much in the way I have mentioned to enable men to see the serious responsibility they were under to answer the census card questions. No doubt abuses have occurred. Every system dependent upon human agencies to give it effect is open to abuse; but when honorable  senators  realize that nearly 1,000,000 cards were issued, and that the confidential committees were operating throughout the country, they will agree that there have been remarkably few instances proved of abuses in connexion with the third question. 
I think they have a right to ask for the honorable senator's reasons, but not to publish them. They have a right to ask for reasons in order that they may see whether the honorable senator has realized the position ; whether he understands the issues at stake; and whether they can do anything to remove any misapprehension that may be in his mind. Having done that, the honorable senator is left free to make up his" own mind and determine his action. There is in that no interference with individual liberty. 
As I have already said, when it is remembered that over 900,000 cards were dealt with, the proved instances of intimidation in connexion with them have been remarkably few. The honorable senator was also rather severe on  Mr. Hughes'  condemnation of certain " parasites," who, as he put it, have attached themselves to the Labour movement, and whom he roundly condemned. I can only say that the man who shuts his eyes to the fact that para-, sites have attached themselves to the Labour movement must be blind. It is the fate of every successful movement to attract, not only genuine and sincere believers in it, but men who hope to rise to some position, or accomplish certain ends through that movement.  Senator Ferricks  must know that in every State the Labour movement has suffered the usual misfortune of successful organizations by attracting to itself parasites of that character.  Mr. Hughes  was particularly referring to those parasites who, under the guise of adherence to the Labour movement, were attempting to carry on an anti-British campaign in connexion with the war. The man who does not recognise that that has been the case must shut his eyes to the facts.  Mr. Hughes  referred also to a movement which has asserted itself to some extent in the Commonwealth, not working on its own basis, but attempting to batten on the Labour movement and to promulgate the ideas of syndicalism, physical force, and sabotage.  Mr. Hughes  did his duty as a leader when he pointed out that the ideals of Labour and sabotage are as wide apart as the poles. If these people were honest, they would start a movement of their own instead of endeavouring to accomplish their ends under the guise of Labour. 
If so, they are doing it unconsciously; and  Mr. Hughes  is none the less to be praised because he attacked the people who are attempting to promulgate those ideas under the banner of Labour. Nothing  Mr. Hughes  did with regard to the referenda - and this is somewhat ancient history - merits the blame of anybody connected with the Labour movement. He was approached by the Premiers, and the proposition they made to him he at once took to the party, and obtained the almost unanimous consent of the party to go on with. He cannot be held responsible for the fact that the State Parliaments did not honour the agreement into which the State Governments entered on their behalf. 
I do not think it is; and I see that one of the subjects to be discussed at the Premiers' Conference in Adelaide at the end of this month is the promise made to  Mr. Hughes  at that time. I would remind  Senator Turley  that any one who thinks the prices of flour, offal, and bread can be fixed in a few weeks for the whole Commonwealth has not considered the question. First of all, with the information we had, the Commonwealth Government endeavoured to arrive at a fair price for the capital cities. At that time the Wheat Board had fixed the price of wheat for local consumption. If we had not taken action, but had waited until the Board had time to perambulate round Australia, it would have meant that the price of the farmers' wheat, the raw material of the flour miller and the baker, was fixed, but that the flour miller and the baker could charge any price they liked. They would have got all the profit, and we' should have been benefiting them and not the consumer. We therefore took action to promulgate immediately a proclamation fixing prices so far as we could, and appointed a Board to investigate the prices we had fixed, and make such recommendations for alterations as they could. There was some delay in the case of Queensland, but for this the Commonwealth were not altogether responsible. We desired, for the sake of expedition, to take advantage of tbe State Boards where they existed. This is a summary of the negotiations - loth March. - Acting Prime Minister wrote State Premier stating that the Commonwealth. Government proposed to take action to regulate the price of flour and bread, and asked if State Government approved of State Board acting under Federal regulations. 24th March. - Provisional regulations issued by Federal Government, to come into operation as from 3rd April. 28th March. - Premier of Queensland wrote approving generally of suggestions made by the Commonwealth, but desiring an opportunity of examining regulations before finally committing State Government. 3rd April. - Copy of regulations forwarded by Acting Prime Minister, with covering letter.  Senator Russell  wired Acting State Premier, Brisbane, asking if State Government approved of State Board acting at once. 5th April. -  Senator Russell  wired Acting State Premier, Brisbane, notifying suspension in Queensland of regulations until 17th April, to enable existing stocks of flour to be worked off, and further inquiries to be made with respect to freight charges. 6th April. - Acting Chief Secretary, Brisbane, wired stating willingness to discuss question with Commonwealth Board on their arrival Brisbane. 6th April. - Acting Chief Secretary, Brisbane, wired that Queensland Board could not see way to enforce Federal determination unless Federal Government guaranteed to compensate millers and bakers for loss on wheat and flour stocks purchased prior to proclamation. 26th April. - Commonwealth Order-in-Council issued fixing price of bread in certain Queensland areas. 3rd May. - Acting Chief Secretary, Brisbane, wired that no official intimation of Order issued by Commonwealth had been received,, and asked what action Commonwealth desired. State to take. 4th May. -  Senator Russell  wired that no action required at present, as enforcement of proclamation is under War Precautions Act. 
The blame, therefore, if there is any, does not lie at the door of the Commonwealth. 
The Brisbane people must be very simple if they are cheerfully paying prices higher than those fixed. They have the right to inform the Department, and prosecutions willbe launched at once. 
Experience shows that it is no easy matter to fix prices for a vast area such as Australia. There are different conditions in different areas, and the matter has to be proceeded with methodically and carefully. Nothing would do more damage to the system of fixing prices than to attempt to fix them without due precaution or in such a way that they are capable of injustice, and of being readily attacked, and their injustice made manifest. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first and second time. 

 In Committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clauses 2 and 3 postponed. 
First schedule agreed to. 
Abstract postponed. 
Second schedule. 
Will the Acting Prime Minister, at this stage, make a statement as to the policy of the Government in regard to increments ? 
The Government are providing the usual increments. Unless we decide to stop all increments., or even if we decide to stop them in any one year, injustice will be done. If we decide not to pay increments to officers whose salaries are above a certain fixed sum, the officers just above that margin are placed at a disadvantage as compared with those just below it, because they lose not only the increments, but also seniority, for the reason that the officers just below the margin receive their increments, and the difference which previously existed between the two is lost, and the loss continues for all the time they are in the Department. Again, the stoppage of increments because of the shortage in the revenue initiates a class tax; in other words, it means taxing the public servants. In the opinion of the Government, a shortage in the revenue should be met by a general tax, and not by our singling out one class of the community. There is also the question of the amount that would be saved by stopping increments. The whole of the increments on the Estimates amount to between £20,000 and £30,000. The higher the margin of salary above which increments might he stopped is fixed, the smaller will be the amount saved. In order to save a reasonable sum, the margin would have to be fixed very low, because the great bulk of the increments, owing to the numbers who receive them, are among the lower-paid officers. In view of these facts, the Government did not consider that they would be justified in interfering with the ordinary increments. Some are granted on the recommendationof the Public Service Commissioner; others are given to officers who do not come under the control of the Public Service Commissioner, and are granted by Ministers. The Government have adopted exactly the same rule in regard to officers under their control as applies to those controlled by the Public Service Commissioner, as to both the amount and the period. Where an officer under the Public Service Act would get an increment of £25, the corresponding officer under the control of the Minister is given a similar increment. 
I understand that the Commonwealth Government are entering into the matter of silver coinage. Last week a question was asked of  Mr. McKenna,  in the House of Commons, as to whether the silver coinage of Australia was legal tender in Great Britain, and he replied, "No." There is a good deal of misconception in regard to this answer, which was cabled, and appeared in the press last week, and it is only fair that the Acting Prime Minister should make a statement, which might remove a great deal of misapprehension. 
I was not surprised at  Mr. McKenna's  answer. I understand that for a time the coining of silver was done for us in Great Britain, and that, after expenses had been paid, the whole of the profits were handed to the Commonwealth Government, but that now we are buying our own bullion, and setting up machinery for the purpose of minting our own silver. Silver, being of a value of less than 2s. per ounce, so that the Commonwealth derives a profit from the coinage of it, it is hardly reasonable to suppose that Great Britain will allow silver coins from Australia to circulate freely there, and be recognised as legal tender just the same as silver minted there. The paragraph was seen by all who read the newspapers, and many people, through a misconception of the true position, fancy that the action of the British Government is unfair. 
The Old-age Pensions Act provides that any support given to the pensioner by a son, a stepson or any other relative, should not be taken into consideration, and that the pension of 10s. per week can be supplemented from other sources to the extent of a further 10s. Will it be competent for an old-age pensioner to draw his full pension even though it and his income under the War Pensions Act amount to more than £52, ' provided that he does not by any other means supplement his income? 
.- The maximum amount which an old-age pensioner may receive by the Act is fixed at £52, with the exception of assistance received from the other sources referred to by the honorable sena'tor. Any income which the old-age pensioner receives by way of war pension will be taken into consideration in fixing the amount of the old-age pension. That is in accordance with the provision of the Old-age Pensions Act. 
I have already said that the amount which the old-age pensioner receives by way of war pension is taken into consideration when fixing the amount of the old-age pension. Therefore, if he receives more than £26 per annum under the War Pensions Act his oldage pension will be reduced by the amount of the excess. 
The Acting Prime Minister stated to-day that I had harped on this question for some time, and I intend to harp on it again, and to take another opportunity of testing whether the condition of affairs he has mentioned cannot be altered. It is an injustice to the old-age pensioner that the income he receives under the War Pensions Act should be a set-off against the old-age pension. The two Acts have been made by this Parliament for special reasons and upon distinct conditions. We granted an old-age pension because we recognised that a person who had reached a certain age and had done something to develop the resources of the nation was entitled to some comfort in his or her old age. Since the ' passing of that Act war has broken out, and Parliament has decided to pay another pension to dependants of citizens whose relatives have died at the front or have returned maimed. We are now told that because the nation is paying a certain amount by way of war pensions it will take away in part the other recognition, which Parliament gave for an entirely different reason. In pursuing this policy the Commonwealth is not recognising the effort of those of its citizens who have been killed or maimed in defending this portion of the Empire. I regret exceedingly that the Government have adopted that position. 
That is contrary to my interpretation of a statement made by the Minister when the matter was discussed on a previous occasion. It is the duty of those who support the present Government to see that these two Acts stand independent of each other. 
 Senator Pearce  said on a former occasion that if such was. the case he would consider the introduction of an amendment of the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act so that the two pensions would not clash. That is what I desire to be done. I admit that the law to-day is. as stated by  Senator Pearce,  but it is within the power of this Parliament to amend the Old-age Pensions Act so that any money received by the old-age pensioner shall not be reduced by the setoff of the war pension. I will seek another opportunity of bringing this matter to a head, and perhaps the simpler course to adopt will be to bring pressure to bear on the Government to introduce an amendment of the Old-age Pensions Act. 
On page 43 of the Bill there is an item, " Maintenance of persons admitted to charitable institutions in accordance with the provisions of the Invalid and Oldage Pensions Act. " I am not clear as to the working of that Act as it relates to persons admitted into charitable institutions. Another item on the same page is " Grant to State War Councils for recruiting purposes." Will the Minister be good enough to give an explanation of those two items ? 
The item regarding the maintenance of oldage pensioners in charitable institutions is almost self explanatory. There are in charitable institutions certain persons who are eligible for old-age pensions. Some of those persons used to leave the institutions and draw their pensions, but, being unable to look after themselves, they found their way back again in a more debilitated state than before. 
The allowance is not paid to the hospitals. If an old-age pensioner enters a hospital the pension is not paid to him while he is an inmate, but on his release he receives a fortnight's pay. In my own State there is an institution called the Old Men's Home. A sum of 8s. is paid for each inmate eligible for an old-age pension, with the condition that he shall be supplied with tobacco if desired. The grant to the War Councils is made to assist in the work of recruiting in the various States, and is used to pay for advertising, postage, stationery, and other incidental office expenses. In practically every case the office accommodation is provided by the State Government, and the employees are usually State officers lent for the purpose'. The grant is distributed on a population basis, and recently application has been made for a further sum of £5,000. 
In the course of the financial year we authorized the raising of two loans of £10,000,000 and £20,000,000. The former resulted in .over £13,000,000, and the latter in £21,000,000 being subscribed, making a total of about £34,000,000. How do we stand in regard to the excess ? 
Under what authority? If this can be' done with £3,000,000 or £4,000,000, it could be done with £50,000^000. What is our authority for  retaining  the money? 
The authority is waiting on the table for the honorable senator to pass into law. 
Well, we are holding it. 
In the Department of the Treasury there is an item ' ' Less savings caused through the absence of officers with the Expeditionary Forces, £689." This is only one of many similar items throughout the schedule on which I should like a little information. Is the money held in trust to be repaid to the officers if they should come back to their positions, or are they penalized for going with the Expeditionary Forces? 
Shortly after the war broke out a Federal and State Conference was held, at which the question was raised, what should be done in regard to the salaries of Federal and State officers who enlisted? It was agreed that they should receive their military pay while on active service, and not their Civil Service pay in addition. This agreement h'as been observed by the Commonwealth and four of the States, but two of the States have broken away from it. The sum on the Estimates represents the pay that would have accrued to officers employed in the Treasury, and which has not been expended in consequence of those officers serving with the Expeditionary Forces. It does not represent a saving to the taxpayer, because the taxpayer is paying those officers, not as public servants, but as military officers, and, moreover the Treasury has had to employ temporary clerks to do the work previously done by the officers. As a matter of fact, this is really a book entry, showing a saving to the Treasury, but expenditure elsewhere. 
Some are worse off and some are better off. I know of some who get nearly half as much again, and others who get double what they were paid in the civil Departments, though there are still others who have lost by enlisting. 
I desire to refer to the delay in the Arbitration Court owing to the insufficient number of Judges. This is a pressing question. I have heard of cases which could not come before the Court for a period of two years, during which time, I suppose, those interested were impatiently waiting for a decision. This ought not to be. If arbitration and conciliation is the policy of the Commonwealth, every opportunity ought to be given to those who desire to have their business settled. It seems to me to be a mere question of money. Why not appoint as many Judges as are necessary'? If similar delays took place in the ordinary Courts there would be such a howl of indignation all over Australia that the Commonwealth and State Governments would be compelled to take steps to overtake the work. I understand that in Queensland a strike has been precipitated with the expressed object of compelling the Court to deal with a case which has been pending for some time; and at Broken Hill strikers have forced the hand of the Government, and had their case taken out of its order. There ought to be some immediate action in this connexion, and the only way to meet the situation, so far as I can see, is by the appointment of additional Judges. In my opinion, it is not absolutely necessary that the Judge of the Arbitration Court should be a professional lawyer; the Government might well appoint laymen of reputation and standing to positions of the kind. Justice, I am sure, would be quite as safe in the hands of such gentlemen as in the hands of lawyers. I ask the Government to take this matter into serious consideration. 
I am glad to be in a position to inform  Senator Stewart  that the Government have already taken the matter into consideration, and have determined on an amendment of the Act to bring about such a reform as that he has suggested so forcibly, and the necessity for which is apparent to every one. Some time ago the matter came before the Government, and a decision was arrived at. There will be no delay in placing legislation before both Houses with a view to expediting cases, and thus preventing in the future such strides and industrialdisturbances as have arisen from the congested state of the business of the Court. 
I wish to direct attention to an item which reads : " Patent, Trade Marks, and Designs." When the small amending Bill relating to patents was recently under review, I had not an opportunity of referring to what I regard as the exorbitant charges which are being levied upon persons who wish to take out patent rights. 
They run into about £18. 
There is £1 payable to the Department for making the provisional application, and a further £2 when the complete application is forwarded, and another £5 when the application has been granted and the patent is issued. This makes a total of £8. Of course, the rights can be renewed after a lapse of seven years by the payment of a further sum of £5, which will cover an additional period of five years. But before any of these steps are possible, an applicant is obliged to proceed through a patent attorney - a professional man, who has made himself conversant with the Patents Act. In addition to the £8 in fees which I have outlined, an applicant for a patent right is required to pay £3 to an agent for drawing up the provisional application, which usually consists of about two foolscap pages of typewriting. 
If an applicant inquires at the Department as to the method of procedure, he is invariably referred to a patents agent. When the provisional application has been granted, he pays the agent a fee of £7 for drawing up thecomplete application or specification. To enable the agent to do this the applicant has to provide a model. The agent has merely to reproduce it. I hold in my hand a copy of an application for a patent right, and attached thereto are two small pages of printed matter. The charge for the preparation of that matter is £7, making a total of £18. I submit that this is not a very great inducement to hold out to persons of an inventive turn of mind. In my opinion, there should be established in every 
State capital, an officer who is thoroughly conversant with the Patents Act, for the purpose of advising applicants, and of drawing up their applications. We might further provide that this officer should be paid one or two guineas for each application which he put through. That would be infinitely preferable to the present system. One marvels that such a simple matter cannot be put through a public office. Then, when a man has taken out a patent, I complain that his share of the proceeds accruing from such patent is very small indeed. Quite recently, a friend of mine patented a very useful little invention which has been selling by the gross in Brisbane for some time at 3s. 6d. He is not a man of capital, and yet he was obliged to visit Sydney, and also Melbourne, to arrange for the manufacture of the article. While his invention is selling at 3s. 6d., his share of that sum is only 3d. To my mind, there should be a more equitable distribution of the profits arising from an  invention. 
Probably, if the particular manufacturer who took up the invention had declined to do so, nobody else would have stepped into the breach. I frequently receive letters from persons of an inventive disposition, and I am never disposed to lightly dismiss their communications. It is quite true that Australia has not yet produced a Marconi or an Edison, but if the inventive genius of Australia were invited by the Government to design articles such as we have hitherto imported from alien countries, a great avenue of possibilities would be opened up. It is the duty of the Government, acting either alone or in conjunction with some other body, to offer inducement to Australian inventors, with the idea of replacing some of those articles which we have been in the habit of receiving from abroad. I have approached tie Acting Prime Minister a couple of times on this matter, and I have also written a formal letter concerning a proposal to the Vice-President of the Executive Council It appears to me that if a man pays about £18 to protect  Ms patent,  and then gets only 3d. as his dividend from the sale of an article at about 3s. 6d., the inducement is not very much. Then, on top of that £18, if an inventor wants a licence to hand over to a manufacturer, who undertakes to manufacture all the materials for that invention, the patentee has to pay to the Department £2 2s. for a licence, which, after all, is merely an ordinary printed form, which could be turned out by the gross, and easily sold by the Department at ls. each. I plead with the Government to review the situation. Hot half enough encouragement is at present given to men of an inventive turn of mind in Australia. I hope to see the time come when we will go even further ; when we shall see inventions nationalized; when the Government shall take over every invention that is likely to be a payable proposition, and give the patentee a fair return for the result of his genius, while the profits, if any, go to the Government, or the people. At present the profits do not go to the Government, to the people, or the patentee. They usually go to the middleman. I would like to see the Government establish a school of invention - an institution to which we might go on a Sunday afternoon, as we do at present to the art gallery or the museum, and there view a display of Australian inventions. Every inventor should be asked to contribute to that institution a model; and it is quite possible that among those who would visit that school would be some who would be encouraged to give their attention to inquiries in other directions. We have been sadly negligent in this matter in Australia during the past. We have been too dependent on the other fellow, and too ready to bow down in veneration to the inventive genius of other countries. But the war has given us an excellent opportunity to do something in Australia, and I trust that the Vice-President of the Executive Council, who represents the Attorney-General in this Chamber, will give consideration to the representations I have made. Recently I interviewed the Treasurer, under the belief that this matter came under the scope of his Department; but  Mr. Higgs  informed me that it was under the Attorney-General's Department. The Attorney-General is in Europe, the Acting Attorney-General is away ill, and the Vice-President of th« Executive Council was not then available, so I did not have an opportunity of mentioning the matter as desired. There is great scope for the utilization of Australian ability, and I hope something will be done to encourage it. 
I take it that the honorable senator who has just resumed his seat has taken this opportunity of bringing before the House and the country what he considers to be a grievance, and also wishes the Government to make the patent provisions more liberal than at present for persons of an inventive turn of mind. I cannot agree with him in all that he says about a school of invention, but from the showman's point of view, I can see great possibilities in the idea, because during the past few months we have been continually receiving ideas from men with inventions of all descriptions, including ideas to finish the war, and contrivances for holding trousers up without braces. If once the public became aware of their variety, and the entertainment that would be obtained from an exhibition of inventors' models, I venture to say that picture shows would almost go out of existence as a medium of amusement. Persons are continually at work, turning out beautiful models of machineguns, bomb-throwers, and hundreds of other articles. These are brought forward and persistently pressed upon the Government to such an extent that those responsible for dealing with inventions have so many ideas to handle that it is quite possible we are missing some first-class inventions, particularly at the present time, when the human mind is stirred up by this great conflict. One has only to put in a few weeks in the Department dealing with the war to realize how many intellects are being exerted to devising some means to assist our side in terminating the war victoriously. I am not so enthusiastic as I was some months ago about making inventions cheaper. Reasonable facilities should be given to people of an inventive turn of mind to patent their inventions. If one in a hundred inventions is successful it may more than make up for the failure of the other ninety-nine. The vote is merely to pay the salaries of the Patents officials, and the alteration of the system would, of course, require an amendment of. the Patent Act. I compliment  Senator Ferricks  upon putting before the Committee, reasonably and fairly, what he looks upon as a grievance. I am not in accord with all that he said, but I agree that it would be a good thing if the Patent Act could be amended in such a way as to give greater facilities for the issue of patents in the case of small inventions, from which no great gain is to be anticipated. At this hour the honorable senator will not expect me to debate the matter at length. I have risen to acknowledge what he has said, and to assure him that the Government will be prepared to give consideration to any system which will enable people who have inventive ideas to give them effect. 
I cannot say that I have been impressed by the spirit of levity in which the Vice-President of the Executive Council has replied to my representations. It may be that there are dozens of people who are ready with inventions to put an end to the war to-morrow, ' but I was referring to geniuses, and not to cranks.  Senator Gardiner  should know that in past years many inventions submitted to the British War Office were set aside as the inventions of cranks, and were subsequently taken to Germany, and are being used against the Allies to-day. This was because the authorities of the great British War Office had not the time to consider the inventions submitted to them, and treated them as so many jokes. We may discriminate between persons of a really inventive turn of mind and those who, for the sake of a better word, may be described as cranks, but, in my opinion, the Australian intellect is as keen as any in the world. A Yankee bounder landing in Australia and applying for a patent will probably be listened to with the greatest deference by the serangs  of the Military Department or those of the Attorney-General's Department, who deal with the issue of patents, whilst if I, as an unknown Australian, bring before them the result of my studies of a certain question, I may be put aside as a crank who thinks he can end" the war in twenty-four hours. I protest against this treatment of our people and this estimate of their capabilities. If  Senator Gardiner  be a patriotic Australian - and I believe he is - he will give this matter serious consideration, and will bring it before the Government to see whether something cannot be done to advance what I regard as genuine Australianism. 
Have the Government taken any steps towards the resumption of the 70,000,0000 acres of leased land in the Northern Territory, or any portion of that area? 
It is not the immediate intention of the Government to do that. There has, for some little time, been a lull in the development of the Northern Territory, due to the many other pressing matters engaging the attention of the Government. It is quite possible that the return of our soldiers may compel the Government to make lands in the Northern Territory available for them, and the matter referred to by  Senator Stewert  will then come up for consideration. At present, to be quite candid, nothing is being done by the Government in that direction. 
Some time ago I pressed upon the Government the necessity for doing something in this direction. The Northern Territory is not being developed at all, and no substantial attempt is being made to promote its development. It has become a real white elephant, and something which the Commonwealth in its present circumstances could very well do without. It seems to me that the time has come for action. After a careful examination of all the circumstances I have come to the conclusion that the resumption of the 70,000,000 acres of leased land, which are occupied in very large holdings by people who are putting them to very little use, is absolutely necessary. If the area were resumed and cut into suitable blocks, we would soon have a considerable number of settlers in the Territory. I ask the Government to give this aspect of Northern Territory affairs their serious consideration. I do not know what my beliefs may be worth, but I believe that what I propose is a necessary preliminary to any settlement of the Northern Territory question. 
I wish to refer to the vote of £2,125 for advertising in Great Britain and ' Ireland. Some years ago I saw advertisements published in Great Britain professing to indicate the true position of affairs here, and in almost every case, so far as I could ascertain, they did not do so. I shall be glad if the Minister can supply copies of the advertisements for which we have paid £2,125 during the past year. I hope no item of the kind will appear in any future Estimates. I totally disagree with the action of the Commonwealth Government in refusing to pay municipal rates and taxes on property held by it in Australia. The Commonwealth ought to set an example by paying, as a matter of principle, the same taxes as a private individual. I do not suggest that the Commonwealth should be required, under the Sydney Corporation Act, for instance, to pay taxes on the land acquired for the Commonwealth Bank, but it ought, as an act of grace, to pay the amount to the council in the same way as if the land was owned privately. Will the Minister state what has been done with the £15,000 voted for the development of oil-fields in Papua? 
The advertisements in Great Britain and Ireland are part of an elaborate system of letting people in the Old Land know our resources. This is done by placard and poster at shows and other places where desirable people are likely to congregate. 
The system is both effective and instructive, and even making the ordinary allowance for any exaggeration of the prosperity possible here, very few of those induced to come here are likely to complain of misrepresentation. We ought to use every legitimate means to induce English, Irish, and Scotch to come here to help us hold and develop our great vacant land. A considerable sum of money has been spent in searching for oil in Papua, the greater part being for the machinery for boring and developing and locating. Like every other pioneering work, this is the most expensive part, but if we strike oil in the quantities we expect, we shall soon congratulate ourselves on our splendid asset. The business is under the management of an efficient and capable man, and though after all these months we have no tangible asset yet in the way of oil produced, the prospects have indicated all along to the trained expert that Papua has possibilities in that direction. 
I have no doubt about the integrity and capacity of the gentleman in charge. 
It has been represented to me that  Mr. Barnet,  the New South Wales Police Magistrate who has been appointed a Commissioner to inquire into the disagreement between officers in the Northern Territory, is totally unfitted for work of that kind. Seeing that a good man had been already practically appointed to do the work, and was turned down in order that  Mr. Barnet  might be given the position, will the Minister state the scope of the inquiry, and what special qualifications this  Mr. Barnet  possesses? 
The inquiry is into the complaints by one officer in the Territory about his treatment by a superior officer. They have been pressed with so much force that the Department thinks it necessary to get an independent capable man to investigate them. From my knowledge of him, I am sure  Mr. Barnet's  long experience as a presiding magistrate in Sydney, and his known capacity and high character, will fit him to hold the balance even between disputing parties. I know no reason to suspect that he is not as suitable as almost any other man would be. I know nothing about any person being turned down to make room for him. He stands high as a magistrate of some years' experience, and no one who knows him would complain that he was not a suitable person for the difficult and delicate business which has been entrusted to him to investigate. 
I recently received a letter from certain persons in Queensland, complaining that they had been refused admission to a rifle club in their district. Can members of rifle clubs subsidized by the Government pick and choose who shall be admitted to the privileges of membership ? It seems to me that as a rifle club is part of the Defence system - it is subsidized by the Government - whatever choice there is in regard to the admission of members ought to be exercised by the Government, and not by the local residents, who may be members of any particular club. In the case to which I am referring the parties complaining could get no seconder for their nomination. They are sons of a Dane, but they are natives of Queensland. One member of the family is an officer serving at the front. They are just as loyal to the British flag as any people in Australia are. There should be some explanation from the Minister as to the powers and constitutions of these rifle clubs. 
A similar case came under my notice some time before the war broke out, and alterations were made in the rules to meet it. I understand that there is now a right of appeal to the Minister in case a wouldbe member of the rifle club should be blackballed. If the honorable senator will give me the particulars I shall have the matter looked into. 
An interesting question has been raised in regard to. members of our Expeditionary Forces. The question is whether, when they have reached Great Britain or France, they are subject to the Imperial Army Act, or to the Australian Defence Act, or whether if a man is charged with a serious offence he will be amenable to the Commonwealth laws or those of Great Britain? 
Members of our Expeditionary Forces are sworn in under the Commonwealth Defence Act, but they are also brought under the Imperial Army Act. By arrangement with the Imperial Government our offenders are dealt with under our Defence Act and by Australian officers. Certain provisions apply to the whole army, but not those to which the honorable senator has referred. 
I would like to know the policy of the Government in regard to the future construction of submarines? Is it proposed to replace those which have been lost, and to add to the number? Of course, I recognise that this is a delicate question to put to the Minister at the present time, and if he does not care to answer I shall not press it. 
The honorable senator is right in be-  lieving  that some information should not be given, but in regard to submarines the Minister for the Navy has taken action with a view to building them in. future in Australia. He has arranged for artisans, chosen in Australia, to proceed toEngland, and receive a course of instruction in the building of submarines, and they will leave the Commonwealth for that purpose at an early date. We hope that in the near future we shall be undertaking the building of submarines in our own dockyards. 

 Senator STEWART (Queensland) (2.29 a.m.]. - I am informed that a great deal of expense is incurred in repairing motor-cars which are hired by the Department for the purpose of collecting letters from pillar boxes'. I am told that the cost is very much more than it ought to be. If the Vice-President of the Executive Council has no information upon the matter, he would-be acting wisely if he brought it under the attention of the Postmaster-General. I am informed that the money spent in this way is considerable. 
I have no information with which to answer the honorable senator at this moment, but I shall bring the matter under the notice of the PostmasterGeneral. Nearly all the cars in use are the property of "the Department, but it is probable that in some cases it has been found necessary to hire cars. Motor cars are at all times expensive, and the cost of upkeep is very great. 
An effort is being made with a view to establishing repairing shops for the whole of the Government motor cars, but nothing has definitely been done yet. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Postponed clauses 2 and 3 and Abstract agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without request; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
As honorable senators are aware, this Bill is merely to complete the provision for the financial year ending 30th June next. It is really only the appropriation for the remaining six weeks of the current financial year to carry on the works that have been authorized from time to time in the various Supply Bills. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment. 
I move - 
This this BiU be now read a second time. 
This Bill is to authorize the borrowing of £25,000,000 from the British Government. There have been two previous loans from the British Government - one of £18,000,000, and the other, of £6,500,000, a total of £24,500,000. The money is to be used for war purposes, none of it going to the States. Already £9,000,000 of the sum covered by the Bill has been received; and a later Bill will be introduced for the borrowing- of £50,000,000 locally. If the latter borrowing be successful, as we hope and believe it will be, it is not likely that it will be necessary to exercise the authority conferred by the Bill before us. However, we desire to be absolutely sure that we shall have the money necessary for war purposes. Honorable senators may rest assured that if the Government . are successful in raising the £50,000,000 locally, we shall not take advantage of the present Bill. The money will be lent at the rate of interest at which it is borrowed in Great Britain. That rate has not yet been determined, but probably it is somewhere in the neighbourhood of 5 per cent. The British loans were arranged before it had been demonstrated that local borrowing would be a success; and honorable senators will join with me in the hope that it will not he necessary to take advantage of this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee: 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5 (Purpose for which money may be borrowed). 
I notice that the Bill provides that, in accordance with the States Loan Act 1915, temporary advances may be made to the States out of the amount raised under this Bill. I thought the Acting Prime Minister told us that none of this money was for the States. 
.- That clause is merely to cover a temporary arrangement, and is really a validating clause. We undertook to borrow for the States, but the British Government advised us that the market was not favorable; and, in order to meet the immediate necessities of the States, we advanced them £2,000,000 out of the £9,000,000 we have received from the Home authorities. That sum will, of course, have to be recouped when we get the proceeds of the later loan from Great Britain. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
In moving - 
That this Bill be now read a second time, 
I wish to say that, in November last, five of the States agreed to the Commonwealth borrowing for them £8,940,000 to be expended upon public works. New South Wales was not a party to that agreement. As I have previously explained, the States have already received £2,000,000 in anticipation of the passing of this Bill. That advance was made to them because the British Government advised us that the time was not favorable for the floating of this loan. However, we anticipate that we shall shortly be able to place a portion of the loan at a favorable rate of interest. Of course, the States have to pay to the Commonwealth the rate of interest at which the loan is raised, and subsequently to repay the loan itself. In other words, the liability is a State liability, the credit of the Commonwealth being merely used to raise the money. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from Committee without amendment; report adopted. 
. -In moving - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
I desire to say that it is a measure to authorize the Commonwealth raising an amount in Australia which we believe will be sufficient, with the money already in hand, to carry us through the next financial year. There may be some who doubt the possibility of raising such a large sum as £50,000,000 in Australia, but the experience the Commonwealth has had already with previous loans encourages us to believe that we shall be able to. At any rate, this Bill will give us authority to make the experiment. I do not know that there is any more to be said in explantation of the measure, because it is wholly a war Bill, and the money will be used entirely for war purposes. It is proposed to raise the money on much the same conditions as the other two loans were raised in the Commonwealth. 
Before the Bill goes through the second-reading stage I want to inquire from the Leader of the Senate whether the Government will continue the practice adopted with the first war loan of paying to investors 4½ per cent., at the same time exempting them from income tax. Whilst I do not so much protest against the rate of interest, I think that those who may invest in the prospective war loan should not be exempted from income tax payments. 
The rate of interest on the previous war loans was sufficiently attractive for those who had money to invest without exempting them from the payment of income tax on the money invested, from which they are now reaping a rich reward. This is a false policy; it is not in accord with the principles of the party to which I belong, and to which the Government owe their existence. When the first war loan Bills were before the Senate I refrained from commenting at all on this matter, because I was desirous of seeing those loans floated successfully. But more money than was asked for was subscribed, and I think that on this occasion the rate of interest should stand alone. I do not want to debate the question further than to say that, speaking for myself, if the same rate of interest is to be paid, investors should not be exempted from income tax. 
No; but the Acting Prime Minister in his secondreading speech said the conditions would be the same as with the previous war loans. 
That being the case, it is imperative, in my opinion, that the people who will get 4£ per cent, on their investment should not be exempted from income tax. It is time that members of the Labour party made an emphatic protest against these conditions to the war loan. I want it to be clearly understood that I am not objecting to the war loan. I realize the necessity for raising money to successfully conduct this war; but, in this community, there are people who are contributing to the war, not in money, but in flesh and blood, which is of much greater value. Those who remain behind have to maintain the dependants of those sacrificing their lives abroad and have to pay income tax on their earnings. It is time, I repeat, that the party reviewed the situation, and if we cannot encourage the wealthy people of Australia to invest their surplus money in the war loans at a lesser rate of interest than 4£ per cent., we should make a determined stand and say that the interest shall not be exempted from income tax. 
. -Even at this late hour, I cannot refrain from rising to indorse the remarks just made by  Senator Needham.  I remember when the first War Loan Bill came before this Senate, I, with other honorable senators, to a certain extent, ridiculed  Senator. Stewart's  argument that war loans should be borrowed without interest ; but though I did ' not agree with  Senator Stewart  on that particular occasion, I say now, with  Senator Needham,  that if we give investors 4£ per cent for money borrowed to prosecute this war, they should show their patriotism by paying income tax upon the revenue they receive from that investment, just as other persons in the community have to pay income tax on their ordinary investments or earnings. As we started by paying 4^ per cent., free of all taxation, we may be in a peculiar position by floating the third war loan under altered conditions. 
We can always retrace our steps, and we are wiser now than we were then. 
It is not necessary to free investors in the forthcoming war loan from income tax or any other taxation under the measure to tax war profits, and other legislation which this Government have the power to pass. The situation is now very serious indeed, and the people who are calling out for conscription of men will, no doubt, be most anxious to invest their money in these war loans, which will return them about 5J per cent., approximately. We are treating these investors very liberally, and the very men who are calling out from the housetops and from every platform for men to go and offer their lives, want to get their cent, per cent, and a little more. I admit that it is very awkward to differentiate between the treatment of those who will be asked to contribute to this loan and that extended to the contributors to the first and second loans. 
I put the small contributor to the loan in exactly the same category as the large contributor. 
Whether a  man  contributes £10 or £1,000,000 to a war loan, and receives interest at the rate of 4"j per cent., he should pay income tax upon the revenue he derives from an investment which, after all, is only a premium of insurance upon his own property. In view of the more" serious position with which we are now confronted, the Government might very well say that if a rate of 4£ per cent, is to be paid as interest upon this loan, the income so derived by investors shall be .subject to State and Federal taxation. 
It must be pleasing to those of us who opposed exemption of interest on war loans from State and Federal income tax, and who opposed also the payment  df  any interest on these loans, to find that the leaven is working. It is quite true that Senators Blakey and Needham go only so far as to object to the exemption, of the interest from income tax. That seems to me only a first step in the right direction. Let us look this question fairly in the face. Every man who goes to  thi  front places his life in jeopardy. To a great extent, he sacrifices hia career. He abandons whatever occupation he may be engaged in for the time being, and it is more than probable that if he comes back alive, lie will never be as efficient as he was before he left. We read every day of the clamour for the conscription of men. Every man outside the ranks of the Labour party who takes the platform is crying out loudly for the conscription of men. These people are asking that our young men should be compelled to offer their lives as a sacrifice for the defence of their country. The men who are asking for this sacrifice are those who will find this £50,000,000. It is not the young men of Australia who will contribute to the loan, but the men of mature years who have been successful in life and have accumulated wealth. They are sacrificing nothing. If young men able to fight are ready to offer their lives for the country, the old men who are not able to fight should be prepared gladly to give their money without interest. When the Bill gets into Committee, I intend to move an amendment similar to that which was moved on preceding War Loan Bills. The proposal to exempt investors in the loan from any contribution to the revenue of the coun try passes a joke. Every one in the community must be prepared to sacrifice something in this great emergency. The policy I advocate should even now be adopted by the Government. I have no hope that it will. The Minister of Defence says that if we pass an amendment of the character I suggest, we shall not get the money. If we do not. get the men required to defend the country by voluntary enlistment, and the Government consider that men are absolutely necessary, I am sure that they will follow the- example of Great Britain, and compel those able to fight to go to the front. Similarly, I say that if we cannot appeal  bo  the patriotism of those who have money to contribute to the war loan to defend their own possessions, and the lives and liberties of themselves and their families, the next step to be taken with regard to them ought to be compulsion. War is npt a thing that can be handled with gloves on. If men are necessary they must be found, and if money is necessary it also must be found. The payment of interest on the sums that are being borrowed for the defence of the country will be a severe toll upon the labours of the working people of the Commonwealth for generations. Before these loans are repaid, the interest bill will have amounted to perhaps two or three times the amount of the loans themselves. That aspect of the matter should not be lost sight of. 
We all recognise that, so long as the war lasts, the duty devolves upon us to find the money necessary to carry it on. Whilst recognising that, I am totally opposed to the methods the Government are employing for financing the war - on former occasions I have protested against those methods - I quite agree with  Senator Stewart  that the time has arrived when the loyalty of the financially-strong in this community should be put to the test, just as the loyalty of the physically fit has already been put to the test. The physically fit have nobly responded, but the financially fit only responded when bribed to do so by a gilt-edged security with interest at 4£ per cent. These people should subscribe to the loan without special inducement. If they will not, the remedy is simple. The conscription of wealth, I am reminded, has nos yet been defined. I will define it. The estimate of the wealth of Australia is about* £1,240,000,000, 5 per cent, on which gives £62,000,000 straight away. A shilling in the £1 should easily be collected, because we are only working on credits, and it would be an easy matter to create stocks equal to that amount. On these the war could be conducted as easily as on the loan we are discussing. If another levy of ls. in the  £1 was wanted, it could be made; and, if necessary, the rate could be made higher, with the poorer classes exempted, as would be essential. A pernicious feature of our new loan policy is the creation of a special financial aristocracy in the community. This is done by exempting the interest on war loans from income taxation, Federal and State, and from stamp, probate, and succession duties. A man who invests his money in this loan can escape all his obligations of citizenship. If he has £1,000,000, and wishes to escape his responsibilities, he can put it into the loan and collect 4 J per cent., which really means 5 per cent, with all the privileges considered, and then he will not have to pay 6d. towards the cost of the war or the Government of the country, Federal or State. That sort of thing should not be possible, and especially should not emanate from a Labour Government. When this Bill is passed, we will have authorized loans for wa? purposes to a total of £129,000,000, the interest on which at 5 per cent, will be £6,450,000 per annum. Taking the income tax on that interest at a flat rate of 2s. 6d. in the £1, the exemption from Commonwealth income taxation will be £806,250 per annum. Putting the .State income tax at a similar figure, our legislation means an exemption of over £1,712,500 per annum in income taxation to the richer classes. If we go on raising our loans in that way, the richest people will be totally exempt from all liabilities of taxation, and there will be no means of getting at them unless we repudiate our own laws. If the war continues, and the bulk of the wealth of the community is absorbed in war bonds, that wealth will be altogether exempt from taxation, so that the richest will be exempt and the poorer classes will have, as in the past, to foot the bill. No such invidious distinction should be created. If we must pay interest, it would be better to make it a little larger, and give no exemptions. Our present system must break down in the end. In Committee I shall move, as I did on a former occasion, to remove all exemptions, because this Bill is subject to the provisions of the Inscribed Stock Act of 1911, as amended by the Act of last year. I shall also support the amendment foreshadowed by  Senator Stewart,  for the purpose of testing the loyalty of the rich men in the community in the matter of providing a loan without interest, and if we cannot get that I shall be prepared to go further and conscript the wealth of the community in order to secure money for the conduct of the war. 
From the remarks of the Minister, in his brief second-reading speech, I am forced to the conclusion that the three atrocities of the previous War Loan Bills exist in this measure - the payment of interest at the rate of 4J per cent, referred to by  Senator Stewart,  the exemption from State and Federal income tax, and other exactions, touched on by  Senator Mullan,  and the payment of brokerage to members of the stock exchanges. Earlier in the sitting, I was greatly relieved to receive from the Assistant Minister the assurance that the rates and conditions of the previous war loans - and presumably of this war loan - were not fixed as the result of a conference held by  Mr. Fisher  and the financial guardians of Australia, because I had wrongly placed the blame for having arrived at these atrocious conditions at the feet of  Mr. Fisher.  Seeing that the Government merely received the assurance of the financial experts as to the amount of money that was available in Australia, the Government must accept the full responsibility for the conditions attaching to these loans. When the. previous war loan Bills were before us,  Senator Stewart's  proposal that those who owned the surplus wealth should give it to the Government for use for war purposes, in the defence of the Commonwealth, was received in a .spirit of wild hilarity. There were jokes right round the chamber about the idea of  Senator Stewart  wanting other people's money, free of interest. The Opposition bench was loudly blatant, not only on that phase of the question, but also on the matter raised by  Senator Mullan,  whose amendment was treated in a light fashion, though there was nothing light attaching to the proposal to exact from the people of Australia the payment of 4½ per cent. interest to those who own the 'surplus wealth, to exempt from payment of income tax, State and Federal, or any wealth tax that might be imposed, and to free the instruments of thew ealthy from any future stamp duty. It is the people who must pay the interest and be responsible for the repayment of the loan in the future. Then take the smallest item of the three, the matter of brokerage paid to members of the stock exchanges.  Senator Russell  informed me the other day that brokerage amounting to £34,000 had been paid to members of stock exchanges in Australia, on account of their obtaining contributions to the war loans through their offices. I will not say that these brokers were instrumental in obtaining contributions to the war loan. The money would have been contributed just the same through the Commonwealth Bank or other banks, and for the fee that has been paid to the members of stock exchanges the Commonwealth Bank could have controlled the whole operation of the loan until its repayment ten years hence, and catered for the paying of interest, the banking of interest, and the holding of bonds for bondholders. I notice that most of the people who have advanced their money to the war loans, on the very inviting conditions offered, are enthusiastic howlers for conscription in Australia. It is a fair assumption to say that 95 per cent. of the members of stock exchanges in Australia advocate it, and that fully 95 per cent. of those who have contributed money to our war loans hold similar opinions. 
I agree with  Senator Millen  when he says that the Government have the power to conscript the Wealth of Australia. My complaint is that the Government have not taken any step towards the attainment of that end. Instead of taking one step forward, they have gone ten paces backwards. As the Irishman says, " The longer they  go  forward, the more they go backward at the rate they are going." If those who possess wealth are not preparedto lend it free of interest and without the very inviting privileges offered to them under the conditions of our war loans, the Government should have the courage to propose that they should do so.If they would not do it, the Government should propose the conscription of wealth under the power which they already possess. When the previous war loan was under consideration I said that I would not attempt to defend it in the country, nor did I. In the Wide Bay electoral campaign, when asked a question, I made the statement that if these conditions had been given in connexion with a war loan by the Cook or Fusion Government, every Labour member and every Labour paper in the Commonwealth would have denounced the loan. If it would have been wrong for the Fusion Government to offer those conditions, it was equally wrong for the Labour Government to do so. I will not bend the knee in obedience to the Government in this matter. The Bill before us asks for authority to borrow a further £50,000,000, and assuming, for the sake of argument, that those ultra-enthusiastic loyalists, the members of the Stock Exchange, will do equally as good work in the future as in the past, when they earned £34,000, they will earn another. £48,000 on this new loan, making the total for. the two loans £82,000. Those are the people who stand on their hind legs on the slightest provocation, and even without any provocation, and sing " God Save the King" and "Rule Britannia." I have already mentioned my three objections to this loan; the rate of interest is the greatest, the privileges and exemptions are the next,  and this sop thrown to the hangers-on of the Stock Exchange is the third atrocity. I trust that the policy contained in this Bill, even if backed up by the Government and by the majority of members of the Senate, will not be considered the policy of the Labour party, because I assure honorable senators it is not. 
 Senator Needham  asked what would be the interest and conditions in connexion with this loan. They will be practically the same as those in connexion with the previous loans. Since the other war loans were floated, interest rates generally have somewhat increased. It is all very well to assume that we have only to ask for the money, and it will be there. 
It is easy to talk in that cocksure way, but is by no means  certain that the money will be there when we want it. It has to be borne in mind, also, that we can strike out all the attractive features of a loan and make it a failure. Depend upon it, the person who has money to invest takes into consideration the conditions of the investment. He has regard to the fact that the income derived from the loan will be free of income tax, and if honorable senators insist on making it liable to income tax, we will have to pay a higher rate of interest. We must pay for the money in one way or another. A good deal has been said about the possibility of raising these loans free of interest. This loan is for a patriotic purpose, the defence of this country, the highest national purpose to which it could be applied, and surely we should pay interest for such a loan. 
If a man subscribes money for a patriotic purpose, knock him on the head, but if he subscribes for the purpose of making a huge profit, encourage him. Let us take an instance of which SenatorStewart will probably be able, through his knowledge of share dealing, to give us some particulars. Here is a company which invites exploiters to come forward with their money. In this year of war, this year of the country's necessity, it has returned to the shareholders half its capital. How has it made its money? From the people of Australia. It is returning not a mere 4½ per cent., but half their capital, to the noble patriots who subscribed themoney in the first place. 
I assure the honorable member that this company was not affected by the war; it would have made this profit if there had been no war. Its return to the shareholders is equal to 100 per cent. in one year.  Senator Stewart  does not suggest that those shareholders should be made to subscribe their money free of interest. Oh, no; let them earn their 100 per cent. ; it is perfectly legitimate. But if some other gentlemen come forward with money to be utilized for the defence of the country they must not get 100 per cent., nor even 3 per cent.; the loan must be free of interest, and the lenders must be made liable to all taxa tion. That is the way honorable senators would treat  a  man who lends his money to the nation for the defence of Australia. If he likes to invest his money in  a  private company, such as the one I have mentioned, not for the defence of the country, but simply for the purposes of exploitation, let him have his 100 per cent., he is welcome to it, and  Senator Stewart  will pat him on the back, and say that he is a clever financier, and  a  patriot. But let him put a single pound into the war loan and he must be hounded down. A man may invest in a tramway company, a mining company, or any other company, and be welcome to his interest. But if he dares to put his money into one other investment - a war loan to insure the safety of Australia - he is to be punished by being deprived of all interest. 
The stock of the company I have referred to as returning 100 per cent. on its capital in one year is diamond-edged. I think I have clearly indicated the attitude that is being adopted by some honorable senators. 
Unless we are going to rob people of their money, take it from them - which is robbery- 
If a man lends for the defence of the country, I would rather give him 5 per cent. than I would give a man 3 per cent. who invests in a tramway company for the purposes of exploitation. According to  Senator Stewart,  a man who does the latter must be allowed to get 100 per cent., whereas a man who lends to his country is to have no interest at all. I confess that I cannot understand that sort of argument, nor have I any sympathy with it. A man who lends his money to the Government for the purposes of defence has a right to the fair market rate of interest. 
As I have already explained, if we applied the income tax to a war loan, we should have to pay  a.  higher rate of interest. 
Because the lender would take the tax into consideration when thinking of investing. The Government do not propose to rob people, but to deal with them on a fair and equitable basis. They propose to recognise that this is the money of the investor, who has earned it. 
The country has the right to call on wealth, but also the right to pay a fair interest. I remind honorable senators who talk about conscription that, even if it were adopted, we should still have to pay our soldiers. And, in the case of money, unless we are going to rob the people, we must pay for the use of it. Even the conscription of wealth does not mean taking it without interest, for that would not be conscription, but robbery; and it is just as well to call things by their real names. 
I am sure that nobody would propose to conscript life without paying wages. It is something more than conscription that honorable senators propose, because they object to pay the wages of capital, and would rob the people. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2(Power to borrow £50,000,000). 
I move - 
That the following words bo added to the clause: - "But, notwithstanding anything contained in the abovementioned Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Act 1911-15, no interest shall be paid or payable on the sum or sums borrowed under the provisions of this Act.'' 
We have just listened to one of the most sophistical speeches from the Minister of Defence that I believe I have ever heard in a legislative assembly. The honorable gentleman placed a money loan to the Government on the same plane as an ordinary investment. It is surprising that a man of his character and attainments should be capable of such a defect in examining any question. I desire honorable members to look this question fairly and squarely in the face. Can money raised for the purposes of war be placed in the same category with money raised for any other purpose? 
Picture shows! The Minister is almost approaching a "picture show " himself to argue in such a stupid way. Why are we raising this money ? Because the country is in danger. I wish honorable senators to give their minds to the subject. Apparently, the Minister of Defence has not done so, because he has explained it in a most desultory fashion. We are raising the money because the life and liberty and the possessions of every man in the country are in danger. If I invest money in a tramway company - the Minister mentioned a tramway company, though why I do not know - I am investing money when the country is at peace, and no man's possessions, life, or liberty is threatened. It will be seen that the cases are altogether different. When the country is in danger, we require men to do the fighting, and in fighting they risk life and limb, together with their health and their reputation - they abandon their careers, leave their families behind, and must, in fact, abjure everything which they hold most dear. That is the case in regard to men ; and we must have men to defeat the enemy, not on the soil of Australia, but wherever he is to be found. These are the sacrifices which the men who go to the front are asked to make. But, in addition to men, we require money, for fighting men are of no earthly use without it. Money is required toprovide equipment and ammunition, to feed and clothe them, and to transport them to the scene of action. Are we to say that while these men. are asked to sacrifice everything, the men who find the money are to be asked to sacrifice nothing? That is one of the most remarkable pieces of reasoning I have ever listened to in my life. It is a pure example of the special pleading of the capitalist - one which any member of a party like the Labour party ought to be ashamed to utter. Not only are the men who lend the money to be asked to sacrifice nothing, but they are actually given a higher rate of interest than is to be found at the present time in what are termed " giltedged " investments. The interest on the war loans is practically 5 per cent. If honorable senators will examine the share-list to-day, they will find that the return upon gilt-edged investments is somewhere in the neighbourhood of 5 per cent. Any sound investment which is returning 5 per cent. interest at the present time is regarded as a gilt-edged one. Now, this loan is gilt-edged. Unless Australia is conquered and taken possession of by the enemy, this money will be repaid some day. It may not be repaid in ten years, but it is as sure to be repaid as the sun is sure to rise to-morrow morning. While Australia lasts, and while her resources are available, the amount subscribed to this loan will still remain a good asset to those who lend it. So that, from every point of view, it will be a remarkably good investment for those who put their money into it. They will get 4½ per cent. interest, as well as exemption from income tax, both State and Federal, and exemption from stamp duties.On the whole, therefore, it is one of the best investments of which I have any knowledge in Australia. Now, I desire to impress upon honorable senators the boundless gulf which exists between money which is invested in any other concern and money which is invested for the purposes of defence. Our country is in danger, our lives and liberties are threatened, and yet the patriotic capitalists will not find the money todefend their own possessions unless they are paid 4½ per cent. interest upon it, in addition to being exempted from income tax; while the men who go to the front risk, not only their lives, but their careers, and everything that they hold dear. They risk everything ; the capitalist risks nothing. Indeed, instead of risking anything,he will actuallymake a profit out of the war. Where is the soldier at the front who will make a profit out of it ? Even if hecomes unscathed from the war,he will suffer in some way. No man willemerge from this great conflict as well as he was when he entered it. He will be maimed or weakened in some wayor other. But the capitalist will not be maimed in any way. He will get 4½ per cent. interest upon his money, and some day he will be repaidhis capital. The arguments in favour of paying no interest upon this loan are unassailable. They appeal to every man of common sense. When the country is indanger,everything should bedone to save it. " What will a man give for his life?" I have often heard asked. If I have £1,000,000, and somebody threatens to take my life, will I not give himthe £1,000,000 in order that I may preserve it? In the same way, everybody with possessions, at a time like this, ought to give them up without fee or reward. I think it is manifest that this kind of investment cannot be compared with any other form of investment. Everything in Australia is in danger - life, liberty, and possessions. To say that any class of the community ought to be allowed to make a profit out of this war is altogetherabsurd. It is a statement which ought not to be indorsed by this Committee. 
In supporting the amendment, I wish to say that I was astonished at some of the utterances of the Minister of Defence this morning. In defending the capitalist who subscribes to this war loan, he pointed out that, under  Senator Stewart's  amendment, we should be depriving this poor unfortunate man who possesses, possibly, half-a-million sterling- 
Then I will describe him for the Minister. It has been urged that, if we adopt the amendment, we shall be depriving this unfortunate gentleman of 4½ per cent., whilst allowing companies to reap profits of 50 and 100 per cent. Moreshame, I say, to the Government to permit such a state of things. Had theydone their duty, they would have brought down a Billto prevent such a rich harvest being reaped at a time when the country is fighting for itsexistence. 
SenatorRussell. - Willnot the warprofits tax cover those cases? 
Not sufficiently.. The Ministerhas stated that, at a time when we are at war, the Government are permitting companies to reap profits amounting to as much as100 per cent. He further set up the extraordinary position that the man whodares to conscript wealth is a robber. What a remarkable statement to emanate from a responsible Minister. If his argument holds good, my interjection that if conscription of wealth is robbery, conscription of life is murder equally holdsgood. I am glad that the Minister has admitted it. 
It is without payment in the case of life, because we can never pay a man for his life. What payment is there for the man who has laid down his life in Gallipoli ?Forhim there is no Compensation Act and no pension rights.  His  only reward is the high honour of having died nobly in defence of his country. Does the insurance society pay a man 4½ per cent. for insuring his house against the risk of fire? No; the insurance society will charge him a substantial rate of interest to cover the risk. But that is what we are doing in the case of this war loan. The Government are insuring the wealthy of the community with the lives of the community, and they are paying the wealth of this country 4½ per cent. for the insurance. I wish the Minister would look at it in this way. I never heard such extraordinary arguments in my life as I have this evening from the Minister in defence of the giltedged security holders of the Commonwealth. The people who invest in these war loans are really in a better position than they were before. They are rapidly becoming rich, and generations of their descendants yet unborn will receive tribute from this Commonwealth because of the financial policy which we are adopting for the prosecution of this war. We are sending our brave men to the front while their wives and children are being exploited by the men whom the Acting Prime Minister is defending, because for the most part the wealthy people are the contributors to our war loans. At any rate, I am not here to defend them. I owe ho allegiance to them.I am not responsible for my position to the financial hierarchy of Australia, nor, indeed, is  Senator Pearce. 
If so, more shame to the wealthy classes of the community for not doing their duty to the Commonwealth. 
Certainly. I have much pleasure in supporting the amendment, which will test the patriotism of the men controlling the finances of this country. If they do not respond, I will have no hesitation in voting for the conscription of so much of their wealth as will be necessary for the successful prosecution of this war. 
I desire just to mention one phase that has not been touched upon yet in this discussion, and that is the amount of money going into this loan, and what becomes of it.  Senator Pearce  has told us that fully 75 per cent. of the subscriptions to the war loans is being spent in Australia in payment of our troops, camp equipment, food, and so forth, while the other 25 per cent is being spent in sending our men abroad. It is gratifying to know that 75 per cent. is being spent here, but we must remember that a large proportion of it will, in the ordinary course of trade, go back into the hands of the men who originally subscribed it. Then, when the call comes for another war loan at over 5 per cent., they will be able to put some of the money in again. A man desiring to invest in the war loans  will  be persuaded to pull some of his money out of industry - because it will pay him to do so. - he will get his cut of this 75 per cent. of the war loan which is being expended in Australia, and return it again to the Government at 5 per cent. with all the privileges attaching thereto. 
I am quoting the figures given to us by the Acting Prime Minister. The Assistant Minister overlooked the fact that if he or I put £100 in a bank for three months at 5 per cent. we do it for investment purposes ; but in the other case people are asked to provide money for war purposes and for the defence of their country. I am surprised at the sentiments uttered by the Acting Prime Minister. I could not sustain my position better than by indorsing  Senator Mullan's  view that, if the Acting Prime Minister is pleased to consider that the asking for a loan without interest for war purposes, for the defence of Australia, is an act of robbery, one can never go on the platform again and ask men to enlist for the war. If, after expressing such sentiments a man asked me to go to the war, I should give him a pretty straight answer. Is any member of the Senate going to place surplus wealth on the same level as human life? I hope that if the Government are going to do so, the Labour movement in Australia will not be behind them. If a majority of the members of the Committee are going to do it, I express the hope and belief that they will not represent Labour thought in Australia. I shall not support such a doctrine. I will support the amendment moved by  Senator Stewart.  It was ridiculed when first enunciated, it is being listened to tonight; and I believe, when promulgated in the country, it will receive the indorsement of a majority of the people. 
-I think that the sooner we get an Opposition in this Chamber the better it will be for the Labour party. It would appear that if some honorable senatorshave no one else to attack, they will have a fling at the leaders of their own selection. Many of the remarks which have been made here to-night will be picked out later on and will make very fine ammunition to fire at the Labour party. When men arrogate to themselves that they are the pure merinos and the only lone watch-dogs on the beach of all that is vital and sacred  to  the wageearners and producers of the country, I am always suspicious of the claims they make. When we hear  Senator Pearce,  the Leader of the Senate, and the elect of our party, described as the friend of capitalism, it is about time we called a halt, and drew the line very sharply. The honorable senator has' been longer in the firing line of the Labour party than those who have uttered these hints in describing him; and those supporting the honorable senator have been longer in the firing line than those who are opposing him. Some things have been said here by persons posing as the bold and courageous champions of the people about men who have done as much as, and more, for the people than their detractors. 
It is about time  Senator Stewart  got back some of his own. 
A member of this party would need the patience of an old saint on occasions to remain silent under the veiled charges hurled against him by members.of his own party. It is about time that straight speaking from the heart was indulged in from this side, as well as from the other side. There are people who have done as much for the Labour movement as  Senator Stewart  has done, and perhaps more, and the honorable senator and those who are associated with him are not entitled to cast reflections upon such persons.  Senator Stewart  has proposed that those who possess liquid capital in this country shall be singled out for special and severe treatment. Let us examine that proposal. They are  £o  be invited to give their liquid capital on the condition that they shall get no return from it. Are Senators Stewart, Mullan, and Ferricks prepared to carry their reasoning to its logical conclusion, and ask people who are not possessed of liquid capital, but of its equivalent in worldly goods and services, to give them to the Defence Department at their market value, less a fair interest upon their investments? We are spending hundreds of thousands of pounds in this country in the purchase of boots, clothing, food, hats, and other requirements for our soldiers.- Will Senators Ferricks and Mullan go to Brisbane and ask boot manufacturers supplying boots to the Defence Department there to sell them at so much below their market value as would be represented by interest on their capital ? What kind of a howl would go up from these honorable senators if the employees of the factories had their wages reduced in proportion to meet the logical demand that those who had invested their capital in their establishments should sell their goods to the Defence Department on the same terms as these honorable senators demand from those who put their liquid capital into the war loans? 
Let us take the case of Mort's Dock, or of any other shipbuilding establishment in which capital has been invested. Would  Senator Stewart  demand that that capital should be loaned to the Government for nothing ? If we want shi,ps repaired, is the honorable senator prepared to ask the proprietors of the shipbuilding yards to carry out those repairs at a price so much below the ordinary rate as would be represented by interest on their capital ? Will these honorable senators ask the Melbourne Tramway Company to convey our soldiers free of charge, as the Western Australian Government are doing ? Shareholders have put their money into the Melbourne Tramway Company to get, not 4^ per cent., but 15 per cent. If the company were asked to follow the example set in Western Australia, and carry soldiers free, how would the shareholders feel ? They would feel that they were being trampled upon when they looked abroad and saw that people who invested their capital in other ways were differently treated, or not touched at all. So we could go through the whole list of those who are supplying goods and services to the Defence Department, and, applying the reasoning and logic of  Senator Stewart,  ask them to give their goods or services at their market cost, less interest on their capital. How some honorable senators would rage when the employees of these people came along and complained that their wages had been reduced because, through the action of Labour members in the Federal Parliament, the goods they were employed to make had to be supplied to the Defence Department at less than their market value. We should have "Senators Stewart and Mullan on the door mat of the Defence Department saying, " Why do you not pay the full market price for these goods? You are robbing these men." The Meat Trust may supply thousands of pounds worth of meat to the Government, and get its full pound of flesh, while the man who has a few hundred pounds and lends his money to the Government is not to have as much as a bone flung to him for his patriotism. But, because other men have their worldly substance in the form of liquid capital, these honorable senators say that we should collar it, and that those from whom we take it should ask for no return. I ask Senators Stewart, Mullan, and Ferricks to put the matter to themselves in this light. Is  Senator Stewart  prepared to ask the Minister of Defence to go to Mort's Dock and get our ships repaired at 5 per cent, lower than anybody else will do it for? Will he advise  Senator Pearce  to go to Brisbane and offer a price for hats and boots 10 per cent, less than the market value ? 
If the honorable member thinks so, I have no more to say. 
I remind  Senator Lynch  that the workers are making more sacrifices than the capitalists through the  waT.  The purchasing power of money has depreciated at least 33 J per cent., and, therefore, the man getting £3 per week is making the gigantic sacrifice of £1 a  week  for his country. That is far greater than the sacrifice made by the man who receives interest at 4£ per cent. Instead of yelling, as  Senator Lynch  suggests, the workers are making sacrifices uncomplainingly. The men who are yelling for more blood are the capitalists. 
No man WhO is not prepared to ask another to give his wealth ought to ask him to give his life. Whilst we have an absolute right to take the one, I question our right to take the other, but we should have no hesitation in asking the wealthy to pay to protect their own property. 
We would not deal with the workmen making boots or repairing ships in the same way as we propose to deal with the capitalists, because the circumstances are altogether dissimilar. Ninety-five per cent, of the people who have subscribed to the loan are in good circumstances, and will not miss a meal by their action. 
Those may feel the pinch by subscribing to the loan, but probably they do not. An overwhelming proportion of the money subscribed has  been advanced by corporations, companies, and individuals in good circumstances. The labourer who makes a boot must be clothed, fed, and housed in order to be effective, and in most cases he must provide for the wants of a family. 
He is just as necessary under existing conditions as the boot-worker, and just as much entitled to his wages. The time may come when our soldiers will have to fight without fee or reward, as the Italian, German, and French, and even the English soldiers, are doing. The Australians are the only men. paid a fair amount, but if the war continues long we may not be able to pay them at all, and every service, in connexion with the war may have to be given.  for the lowest possible wage, as has been the case in many countries before, and is probably the case in Germany to-day. Men engaged in hundreds of ways in the countries at war are paid very little indeed. Of course, if we can pay our soldiers, it is right to do so; but if the time should arrive when the country is unable to do it, they will have to fight without fee or reward. Fortunately, that position has not yet arrived in Australia. I need not go over the whole argument as to the difference between money raised for the purposes of defence and that which is put into industries in time of peace. The matter must be patent to every one who gives it the slightest consideration. 
 Senator Lynch  has referred to certain workers in Brisbane, and has asked what their attitude would be if their wages were cut down owing to the fact that their employers were compelled to give money to the war loan, or if they were expected to contribute to the war loan without interest, in the shape of a reduction in their pay. Let me tell the honorable senator that some Brisbane unions have submitted to a reduction in wages, in that they have given money to the war loan and declined to accept interest.No doubt if that system were widespread throughout Australia with the capitalist and the worker and the man in between each taking his due share, no complaint would be heard from the workers. I cannot conceive how a man, who is an enthusiastic advocate in the cause of voluntary enlistment, can oppose  Senator Stewart's  amendment; much less can I conceive a man who advocates compulsory service, as  Senator Lynch  has done, opposing it. The amendment does not ask for the conscription of wealth, or for the confiscation of the surplus wealth of Australia, it simply asks for the loan of that wealth. Will  Senator Lynch  go on the platform and say, " I advocate the conscription of human beings, the manhood of Australia. I will see them slaughtered and their blood flowing in the trenches; but as for the sacred treasure, the surplus wealth of Australia, no, ladies and gentlemen, I will not take that money. I will not even take a loan of it. If the people will give their money just the same as those whom I am going to send into the trenches are forced to give their lives, by my vote I shall give them 5 per cent. for it, and call them patriots"? Patriotism at 5 per cent.! I can understand a man who believes in voluntary enlistment being consistent, and advocating voluntary effort in regard to money, but  Senator Lynch  goes to the other extreme. He does not believe in voluntaryism of men or money; he believesin compulsion of men, and in compulsorily shovelling money out to the wealthy at a rate of 5 per cent. I hope that his attitude will not continue to be the policy of the Labour party in Australia, or of the Federal Government, otherwise my humble support of the party must cease. 
I propose now to submit an amendment which will prove whether honorable senators are desirous of placing the loan on a fair footing. The amendment has for its object, the removal of all exemptions. The Bill exempts the bond-holders' interest from State and Federal income tax, and stamp duties, and allows the holders the privilege of paying in his bonds at par, even if they have become depreciated, to meet probate duty. I move - 
That the following word's be added to clause 2 - " Provided that the provisions of sections 52a, 52b, and 52c, of the Commonwealth Inscribed Stock Act 1911-15 shall not apply to the loan raised under the authority of this Act." 
If that amendment is carried, subscribers to the loan will receive 4½ per cent., no more and no less, and the Commonwealth may impose on the interest from this loan income tax or any other kind of tax. 
Yes ; if their bonds can be bought in the open market. 
Certainly. Suppose a man has to pay probate duty, and that the bonds have depreciated to £70, as might be possible owing to the enormous amount of the loans, for £700, he could pay a probate duty debt of £1,000. 
Certainly; but the holder would not submit them if they were above par in the open market. It is ridiculous to propose that we should allow a man to pay to the Commonwealth depreciated stock, to met his legitimate obligations in probate duty. The Government will, of course, object to removing these exemptions, because they have already been included in two previous loans. My answer is that, we must commence somewhere to do the right thing. If the argument of the Government were sound, we should never make any improvement. My desire is to abolish exemptions which are the special privileges of an already privileged class. 
I have grave doubts as to whether the amendment is in order, but, in any case, I feel confident that the good sense of the Committee will reject it. I infer that the Senate desires this war loan to be a success, but if honorable senators desire it to be a failure the passage of an amendment such as this is the way to realize that desire. This loan represents the biggest proposal for raising money in Australia that has ever been made, hut the object of  Senator Mullan  seems to be to so shape the Bill as to foredoom the loan to failure. I can conceive of no worse misfortune to Australia than that that should happen. The failure of the loan would be hailed with shrieks of delight in Berlin, and it would give the Commonwealth a bad advertisement the world over. 

 Senator Mullen says that we have done wrong on previous occasions. That is a very cheerful, happy sort of way of assuming that he is right and everybody else is wrong; but we are obstinate enough to believe that we are right.  Senator Mullan  is very like the man who insisted that the whole regiment was out of step except himself; but I contend that the regiment was in step on the previous occasion, and I hope they will continue to keep in step. The honorable senator's attempt to improve the measure will ' ' improve ' ' it out of existence; and I hope the Senate will take a serious view of the position, and will not consent to make these alterations. After all, this loan will be regarded as an investment; and men who have money to invest, will take into consideration its advantages and disadvantages. They will remember that the investors in a previous loan were granted certain privileges which, with the same rate of interest, are now withdrawn. Can it be expected that, under such circumstances, we shall have the same amount of investment? The supporters of the amendment must give it their support, with the knowledge that they are going to make the loan a failure. I leave the responsibility with them. Of course, the Government cannot accept such an amendment, but regard it as an attempt which, if successful, would damn any prospect of success. It would be an unfriendly act to Australia - an act that would damage us for all time. 
I support the amendment, and will take all the risks of supporting it. I am going to speak with all the responsibility that I know I carry, notwithstanding the statement of the Leader of the Senate to the contrary. Before I enter on the subject-matter of the debate, may I refer to the homily that was preached to the Committee by  Senator Lynch.  He expressed the opinion that it would have been better if an Oppositionist had been in the chamber, and then lectured his colleagues as to what they should or should not do. Because I dared - dared, mind you ! - as a humble member of the Committee, to ask him a question in a very courteous manner, he replied in what I can only describe as an uncouth, and I might almost say insulting, way. 
I suggest to the honorable senator that, when next he addresses the Committee, if some honorable senator dares to interrupt his rhetoric with an interjection, he should treat that interjection with the courtesy it demands, and the courtesy with which it was made. As to the amendment by  Senator Mullan,  I intimated, in the second-reading discussion, that, while I was not altogether wedded to the rate of interest which is being paid in order to make the war loans a success - indeed, I am indifferent on the matter - I was certainly very definite as regards exemptions. If we exempted from taxation profits derived by investing in war loans, we should be doing wrong. In response to my contention, the Minister told us that there are private companies which make 100 per cent, profit. If that be so, the Government, of which he is Acting Leader, has a remedy that may be applied to prevent such profits. Personally, I regard it as no argument against an exemption from income tax on the profits of a war loan, to say that private companies are earning dividends of the kind; nor is it any argument on the part of  Senator Lynch,  who supports the Minister of Defence, to speak of prices in Brisbane and so forth. I wish to reduce the argument to one of solid common sense. 
All such combines are within our purview, and the Government have a remedy if they like to use it in time of war. 
What could the Government do? 
I voted against  Senator Stewart's  proposal, but intend to support this amendment. If we fix the rate of interest payable upon this loan at 4^ per cent. - as we did in connexion with our two previous loans - I think we shall be placing a fair business proposition before prospective investors. It will be an equitable arrangement for the investing patriots of Australia if we pay them that rate of interest, - and subject them to any taxation which may be levied upon other persons, either by the State or Commonwealth Governments. It has been stated many times in connexion with our previous loans that 4J per cent, interest with exemptions from State and Federal income tax is equivalent- to 5 J per cent. The saving which we shall effect on this loan by wiping out the exemption will amount to  no  less than £375,000. 
The effective rate will not be very much less than that. Because a man invests in this loan he ought not to be exempt from taxation. He should be prepared to incur the risks which every other business person in the community has to incur. 
While the proposal of  Senator Mullan  goes farther than did the amendment submitted by  Senator Stewart,  I intend to support it. It goes farther in that it lays down that the Government shall accept bonds or stock at their face value in discharge of a debt due to the Crown. If, for example, the' Government issue a  £1  note and I owe them 20a., they ought to be prepared to accept that note in payment of my obligation. If a person dies, and leaves a certain amount of money, including investments in the war loan, this should be accepted by the Government in payment of probate duty. When the first loan was floated, and an amendment was moved against the exemption from income tax, State and Federal, I opposed it for the reason that the prospectus had gone out to the public, and considerable sums were then in the hands of the Treasurer. As a Parliament, we were obliged, on that occasion, to keep faith with the people on account of the promise made by the Prime Minister. When the matter came up again on the occasion of the second war loan, I voted against any exemption from future taxation, for I held that every person investing should be liable to contribute something more to the Government than was considered necessary when the first loan was floated. No other form of investment carries with it an exemption from income tax, or gives the holder special advantages. An alteration of the conditions of this loan will not, in my opinion, affect it very much. I am glad to hear the Acting Prime Minister say that 15,000 people in Australia invested under £100 in the previous war loans, because there may be some idea in the minds of some honorable senators that it is the big capitalists who are putting the money into these loans, or that .the average business man has a lot of spare cash available. The average business man, if he is a good business man, does not have money floating about, but he sees that every pound is working for him in some way or other. He may be able to raise money against his capital, and in that way assist the war loans. There were 187,000 subscribers to the last loan. I should like to see that number multiplied by ten in future loans, because the broader a loan like this is based the better it will be for the community. The more investments we get of £50, £100, or £200, the better it will be. 
Yes. If a man saves up 100 francs in France he can buy his  rentes  over the counter, and he knows the position he is in at once. Suppose we were able to induce, not 180,000, but ten times that number of people in Australia to put their savings, whether £20, £30, £50, or £100 in this war loan, how much better would it be for the community than to have the investment in the hands of a few large financiers? These people, I should think, would not want exemption from other taxation, or any other advantages which they would not receive if they put their money into the ordinary avenues of trade. The Government are making a great mistake in sticking to this exemption. I know it might well be said that this condition applied in the case of the first war loan,- but it was then, in my opinion, a mistake, but because the prospectus had gone out to the public with a promise from the Prime Minister that there would be exemption from income tax, I supported it. When the last Loan Bill was before the Senate my vote went against the proposal for exemption from income tax, just as it will now, because in that case no prospectus had been issued to the public, and I did not see that any special privileges should be enjoyed by any class in Australia. 
The Government have made a mistake in granting special privileges to subscribers to the war loans. I remember, on the occasion of the last loan,  Senator Turley  voted against the exemptions from income tax. I do not intend to traverse the ground covered to-night. I only want to say I think it would have been more honest if the Government had definitely stated the rate of interest, so that people who subscribe would know the exact conditions under which they would be asked to advance their money. This 4£ per cent., with various privileges, is misleading. The system of privilege always is bad, and it does not synchronize with Democracy. One of the greatest obstacles we are up against in our State administration is the privileges allowed to civil servants, railway employees, and so forth; and here we are extending the same principle again.  The Government should definitely fix the rate - I would not care if they fixed it at 6, 7, or 8 per cent., so long as they stated that that was the whole return to the investors. Twelve months ago, after the passage through this Chamber of the first War Loan Bill, I travelled north with a man who was evidently some guns " in the financial world, and I was speaking against what I described as the rather inviting conditions of the Commonwealth war loan. As a financial man he was opposed to my view, and employed the arguments that we heard from the Government side last night and this morning about the market price of money and all that sort of thing. But when I told him that I thought it would have been better if the Government had stated a definite rate of interest for the money, he agreed with me. I can quite understand the diversity of opinion upon the last amendment, as there was room for it. Personally, I would go further than  Senator Stewart.  I would not borrow the money for defence purposes. I would confiscate it. 
We have the proposal made to take men's lives, and they are of more value than bricks and mortar. It must appeal to honorable senators that the principle of throwing in these extras is bad. Let the Government say that they are prepared to pay 5 per cent, for this money. I have said that with the privileges granted the rate is slightly over 5 per cent. I am prepared to take the assertion of  Senator Blakey,  an experienced accountant, that with the concessions the rate amounts to per cent. If that be so it would be far better for the Government to offer the loan at 5J per cent. Why should we not be honest in the matter? Why should there be this juggling and covering up? Why should we add the concessions which the 5 per cent, patriots who contributed to the previous war loans are enjoying to-day, and will no doubt enjoy» from the contributions they will make to the loan now under consideration? I cannot understand by what the Government were actuated in departing from the recognised practice of asking for the money they required at a certain definite rate of interest. I trust that the amendment will be carried. 
It is to be regretted that this Bill for the borrowing of £50,000,000 was not agreed to by the Senate without discussion. I should like to have seen it go through without debate. I am opposed to the amendment on several grounds. First of all I am opposed to an income tax.- It has always been a difficult question for me ' to decide which is the more objectionable, a practical protectionist policy of collecting revenue through the Customs or the policy of collecting 'it by means of an income tax. Stamp duty is a more irritating and objectionable method for the collection of revenue than either of the above mentioned devious means of securing it. I do not agree with the statement made that investors in these war loans are receiving 5 per cent, interest. They are receiving only 4$ per cent. The Government require the money, and it has to bo remembered that since the war broke out the value of money has increased very considerably. I doubt very much whether a rate of 4^ per cent, is as good a rate of interest now as it was when the first war loan was floated. It is quite a mistake to suppose that the bulk of the people who contributed to the war loans are wealthy capitalists. I give honorable senators the following figures from a return dealing with the applications for the second war loan. 

<graphic href="079332191605225_74_1.jpg"></graphic>

From these figures it will be seen that the total number of applicants was 28,938, and the total amount applied for £21,621,720. The table discloses the very important -fact that 15,040 persons applied for amounts ranging between £10 and £100, and no less than 24,677 persons applied for sums ranging from £10 to £500. We may for the purposes of the debate regard a person who has £500 to lend as something of a capitalist, but on other occasions honorable senators and members of the Labour party scout the idea that a man who has land of the value of £5,000 should be regarded as a capitalist. In other debates we have been invited to believe that men owning land of the value of £5,000 are poor men who should be sheltered and protected against all kinds of taxation, and especially against a land tax. I believe that very many of the 199 applicants for large sums represent institutions like the A.M.P. and other insurance societies that are merely investing the premiums of a very great number of people who cannot by any stretch "of the imagination be regarded as capitalists. Fifty per cent, of the loan was subscribed by the rank and file, the great bulk of whom are exempted in any case from the income tax. Four and a-half per cent, is not much to give for money, and those who take it are apparently sacrificing about 6 per cent., according to the list of 10 per cent, investments supplied to members by some enterprising sharebroker. 
If the contributors to the war loan are as  Senator Grant  describes, then the very men we want to get at will not be reached by offering a reduced rate of interest. The bulk of the money being subscribed by insurance companies, which means the general public, the object of the movers of the amendment, the penalization of the rich man, fails. 
These were mostly big companies, composed of a large number of smaller share or policy holders. We cannot reach the rich man by this amendment, unless he subscribes. If he does not, and  Senator Grant  says he does not, we can reach him only by using our unlimited power to impose income taxation. It will penalize our own class to tax the 15,000 subscribers of small amounts. At the outside some of them might have to pay 10s. in income tax, on a flat race of 2s. 6d. in the £1, or perhaps a little more, if  Senator  Blakey's  estimate of a return of 5J per cent, is correct. The Government by exempting owners of war loan stock from taxation are not conferring on them more than the intrinsic value of the loan, for it is always easier for a tradesman to give in kind than in cash. If we imposed taxation, and if  Senator Blakey  is correct in fixing all charges at about f per cent., the effective rate of interest on this loan would be brought down to 3f per cent. Thus we should be offering a rate of interest which is decidedly below the ordinary market rate of interest to-day, and if we proposed to do so, and let it be known, I do not know how we should get the £50,000,000. Now, looking at the matter from the point of view of the speculative rate of interest, which  Senator Stewart  says is 5 per cent. There, again, there is at least a i per cent, to the prejudice of the holder of war loan stock. If we reduce the effective rate of interest by  per cent., how can we raise the war loan ? 
If the honorable senator is prepared to create such a situation, I am not. If there is such a difference as $ per cent., we cannot expect to make the war loan a success. . Taking the figures and calculations and reasoning of those who support the amendment as showing that there will be a difference of  per cent, against the holders of the war loan stock, I shall vote against it, with the object of making the loan a success. 
After the vituperative remarks of an honorable senator when he spoke against a previous amendment submitted by those who  wished  to deal with the capitalist, I am delighted to £nd that he now shows a burning desire to do the same thing, but not in the same way. He claims that the subscribers to the loans are all poor men, and yet he proposes to impose a stiff income tax and take them down, whereas those who have moved to amend the Bill seek a more substantial way of doing it, namely, by conscripting money. 
The object of  Senator Stewart's  amendment was unmistakably the conscription of wealth. 
The honorable senator must pursue the argument upon his own amendment. 
I move - 
That the following words be added to the clause :  - " Providing that such expenses of borrowing shall not include any amount of moneys to be paid as brokerage or commission to members of Stock Exchanges for contributions to the war loan made through their offices." 
I regard the system of allowing brokerage to members of Stock Exchanges as entirely wrong. The Commonwealth Bank and the post-offices throughout Australia are prepared to do this work, and the Commonwealth Bank, at the same charge of 5s. per £100 is prepared to control the loan over a- period of ten years. When the last loan was being subscribed, the Commonwealth Bank opened offices for the convenience of. members of the Stock Exchange, and  Senator Russell  has told me that the amount of brokerage paid to them totalled £34,000. In my opinion, that money was not earned, for all the money necessary would, I think, have found its way into the loan irrespective of the members of the Exchange. 
.- I appeal to the honorable senator not to press the amendment. Why make the Bill the vehicle for the abolition of brokers, and for social reform generally ? Brokers are an established fact in connexion with all these transactions, and if  Senator Ferricks  likes to play  Sir Galahad,  by all means let him do so; but why use this Bill for the first tilt? I understand that the brokers have made one alteration, inasmuch as they do the work connected with these loans at half rates. Another point is that a large number of people accept the advice of brokers as to investments of this kind. We may think such people foolish; but, nevertheless, many prefer to employ brokers; who, of course, would not exist if they did not fill some place in the financial economy. This Bill is not a measure to insure the continuance of brokers, and it is hard to see why it should be made one for their abolition. 
I do not feel disposed to withdraw the amendment, because I think these brokers have not rendered adequate service to the defence of the country for the £34,000 already received. I rather regret that the Minister has not- shown us what services have been rendered by these gentlemen. This is not the first occasion on which I have raised this question, for  Senator Russell  will remember that, when the first Loan Bill was introduced, I took exception to the payment of brokerage charges. I do not profess to be cognisant of all the details of loan floating and so forth; and, though I have repeatedly asked for the Government reasons for their present policy in this re gard, I have not received any reply to my satisfaction. When the loan now' under consideration has been subscribed, these brokers will probably draw commission amounting to £82,000. I am not prepared to allow this, unless I am assured by  Senator Russell  or the Acting Prime Minister that adequate service to the Commonwealth is given in return. It has been advanced that these brokers advise their clients to invest in the loans,, and that, but for this, the whole of the money might not be subscribed. I take an opposite view, and think that it is just a case of friends acting through brokers because they know that the latter will get commission, and that the State is a good old milch cow. Members of Stock Exchanges are usually keen business men, and I take no exception to their utilizing their intellect and abilities to the best possible advantage. But when we consider that the money borrowed is for war purposes, and that the members of the Stock Exchange, when war news arrives, are given to singing "God save the King" and "Rule Britannia," it would seem that they are acting a double part, seeing that they accept such substantial suras in brokerage. I cannot consent to the present state of affairs continuing unless the Acting Prime Minister can convince me of the advantage accruing to the Commonwealth from this magnificent gift to the brokers. It is safe to assume that 95 per cent, of the members of the stock exchanges throughout the Commonwealth are to-day advocating the conscription of the manhood of this country. In such circumstances am I justified in allowing these persons to draw this huge sum for brokerage in connexion with the flotation of our war loans? If the Minister has good reasons for his action, he has, so far, withheld them from the Committee. 

 Senator MULLAN (Queensland [6.21 a.m.]. - The Minister assigned as a reason why the amendment should not be proceeded with that this loan is for war purposes. Now, if there is one measure moi-e than another which should appeal to everybody in the community, it is a War Loan Bill. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill covers all the war loans, but involves nothing beyond a bookkeeping arrangement in relation to them. The Acts authorizing the two previous loans enacted that the money borrowed should be paid into the Consolidated Revenue. We desire that the whole of future loans shall be paid into a distinct fund to be used for war purposes only. The Bill is intended to simplify the keeping of accounts, so as to show clearly the expenditure made from war loan funds. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
I may inform honorable senators that the term of the Public Service Commissioner had expired, and under the Public Service Act we had no power to appoint an Acting Commissioner. It is the desire of the Government to review the Public Service Act, and to bring down definite proposals with regard to the position of the Public Service Commissioner. But in order to give us time to deal with these matters, it is necessary to carry on with an Acting Public Service Commissioner, and this Bill merely gives us power to appoint  Mr. Edwards  to that position until the appointment of a Public Service Commissioner, or until the Governor-General otherwise directs. It makes no change in the Public Service Act, and it gives to  Mr. Edwards  the salary at which  Mr. McLachlan  began in the Public Service as Commissioner. 
Until the Government come forward with an amendment of the Public Service Act, or until they see fit to make a further appointment. 
I can understand the need for such a Bill as this, but I would point out that it is not the best practice to have men " acting " for any great length of time. In fact, I know of no other condition more confusing to the Public Service than to have men kept indefinitely in an acting capacity. That is the reason why I asked the Leader of the Senate how long it was intended to keep  Mr. 
Edwards temporarily in this position. For my part, I would like to see a Public Service Commissioner appointed now, and I do not know why one could not be appointed. An amendment of the Public Service Act is not required to enable an appointment to be made. One of the most fruitful sources of friction in the Western State has been the practice of appointing leaders of Departments and sub-Departments in an acting capacity. They never take any interest in their work, and the experience in Western Australia should guard us from introducing the trouble into the Commonwealth Service. I hope that the fact that  Mr. Edwards  will be appointed temporarily does not mean that the Government will continue indefinitely with an Acting Public Service Commissioner. I would like to have an assurance from the Leader of the Senate as to the extent of his term. 
I am not so much concerned about the appointment of a Public Service Comisisoner in a temporary capacity, or about the officers who will act under him as I am about the policy of the Government with respect to the service as a whole. It is time they introduced a comprehensive amendment of the existing Act with a view to take from the Public Service Commissioner, whoever he may be, some of the mighty powers with which he is invested, and give the Ministers in charge of Departments some powers which they do not now possess. 
No; but I would apportion powers between the Public Service Commissioner and Ministers, and would safeguard the interests of the Commonwealth Public Service. We had a demonstration in another place by a responsible Minister, who said that he could not sack an officer of his Department. I do not say here that our public servants are good, bad. or indifferent, but I do say that the Federal Parliament is not the place in which to attack them, and they certainly ought not to be attacked by the Minister controlling the Department in which they are employed. 
Does the honorable senator think that that matter is under review now? 
I can only say in reply to  Senator Lynch  that the word "temporarily," as used in this Bill, is intended to convey its accepted meaning. But it is impossible to give the exact time when a permanent appointment will be made. I hope that, in a few months, such an appointment will be made. In answer to  Senator Needham,  I may say that it is the intention of the Government to bring in a Bill to amend the Public Service Act at a later date. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Appointment of Acting Public Service Commissioner). 
I should like the Minister of Defence to say whether the Acting Public Service Commissioner will be subject to the same discipline, and his officers subordinate to him, in the same way as he would be if the appointment had been possible under the existing Act. I ask for the information because it appears to me from the way in which this clause is drawn, that the Bill is not co-related in any way with the existing Act. It provides that the Acting Public Service Commissioner shall hold office only until the appointment of a Public Service Commissioner, or until the Governor-General otherwise directs. This implies a right to discontinue his services, but my point is that this Bill is not co-related with the existing Act, and contains no provisions con- trolling the Acting Public Service Commissioner. 
. -It is quite clear that the Acting Public Service Commissioner will be under the Public Service Act, which is the only Act making provision for a Public Service Commissioner. This Bill is therefore linked up with the existing Act. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
The Commonwealth, under its power to acquire land for semi-public institutions compulsorily acquired the site being now built on for the Commonwealth Bank, Sydney, but under the existing Act the title to that land must be transferred to the Commonwealth. It is desired to obtain power to transfer the title to the Commonwealth Bank authorities on payment of the amount expended in purchasing the site, which was £102,000. 
The bank has been paying the Government 3 per cent., which is the rate fixed by Parliament under the Lands Acquisition Act, when the land was acquired by the Commonwealth about four years ago. There is no reason why the bank  should be charged more because of the war, which broke out three years later. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 - (Vesting of lands in Commonwealth authorities) . 
.- Will the land on which the bank premises are being built be subject to municipal taxation, which on the present valuation would come to £2,000 per annum ? 
I cannot answer that question definitely. If the municipality has no power to tax Commonwealth properties in general, it should not have power to tax the bank, which undoubtedly belongs to the Commonwealth, but the High Court decided against the Commonwealth in the stamp duties case, and, as the bank has been made an independent body, the position may be uncertain. 
Do the Government intend to pay the municipal rates ? The bank certainly ought to pay them, being run for profit like any other business. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment. Standing and Sessional Orders suspended ; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
I wish to thank honorable senators for the way in which they have sat through the long sitting in order to get through the business. The following reply has been furnished to  Senator Needham's  questions regarding appeals from the sentences of courts martial : - 
There is no appeal in the ordinary sense from the sentence of a court martial. A sentence has no effect till confirmed by the confirming authority, who has power to order revision, or to mitigate the punishment. And if a court martial exceeds its jurisdiction, it can be restrained by prohibition. 
There is no similar section in the Army Act. Certiorari, however, Is not an appeal, but a removal of the proceedings from one Court to another. 3, 4, 5. The clause was in the Defence Bill as originally introduced in 1901. It was taken from the New South Wales, Victorian, and South Australian Acts. It is a very usual clause in Acts providing for Courts of special jurisdiction. 
No. 
During the course of the debate on the' Budget, I took occasion to refer to a notification in the press of a further sale of wheat in the Old Country. 
I desire to know from the Honorary Minister, who represents the Government on the Wheat Board, the latest developments in that respect, and what chance the wheat-growers have of getting the extra 6d. per bushel that means so much to them. Apparently, we are living in an age when the fashion seems to be to pay no interest on money advanced. Unfortunately, the people who .have turned over the soil, and delved and dug for the last two or three years have received no interest on their produce, nor have they got full value for the goods they have supplied. Instead of getting the London parity, they get 2s. 6d. a bushel, less than 50 per cent, of the face value of their goods. I wish to speak also of the impropriety of a State Minister jumping the position of mouthpiece of the Wheat Board. I still hold that the representative of the Commonwealth on the Wheat Board should have the exclusive right to make its announcements. No State Minister should usurp the position. Nevertheless, I hope that, as a result of the sale effected in the Old Country, according to the report given to the press by a State Minister, tlie Board will be enabled to take some action in the direction I have indicated as desirable more than once in this chamber during the last few days. The £2,000,000 which will be received will reduce the overdraft to about £9,000,000. If the Board would make the additional advance of 6d., the overdraft would then be increased to £13,000,000, but as the Honorary Minister has told us that the maximum margin is £15,000,000, the amount will be well within the limit if it remains at £13,000,000. In the Western State, on one occasion, a politician said, " What is a million?" We have been getting on since then. We have been passing Bills for the borrowing of £50,000,000. That politician we now find was but a pessimist. He ought to have been saying, "What is fifty millions?" I am asking for but a fraction of £50,000,000 to be advanced to these farmers at this particular juncture, so that they may be able to turn over the ground, and get their seed under cover; that, in their turn, they may be able to employ labour, and when the land becomes productive, there will be more wheat for loading on our railways, and for cargo in our ships, all this giving con-  siderable  employment at the proper time to our people. If we are to move we should move now - I know the position of the men who are interested - and even at this eleventh hour, I ask the Minister to announce the latest developments in regard to the wheat transactions, and say whether the extra 6d. is to be forthcoming so that the people can do some good with it, 
I regret that the honorable senator has been deceived. I have already told him all I know about the matter. It is true that a report appeared in a newspaper, but I accept no responsibility for it ; in fact, I was as much astonished to see it as the honorable senator was. It. said that something like 250,000 tons of wheat had been sold within the last few days. Everything depends on the interpretation of the words " last few days." There was a good sale of wheat on the 8th May, and again on the 18th May we sold another 90,000 tons to the international commission. Those are the only sales which I know of. Whoever said that 250,000 tons had been sold within the few days must have meant last few months. 
I am not here to say hard things, but I regret the publication of the report. I was at a meeting of the Board on Saturday morning from 10 o'clock until midday, and I heard nothing about sales. It is possible that, going back over two months, the sales may have extended to 200,000 tons. The position is a difficult one, much more difficult than most people realize. Freight has shown no signs of improving; on the contrary, the position is worse than it was in the early days. No one knowing, the facts would feel justified in recommending an increase of 6d. a bushel while there is an overdraft of £11,000,000, and uncertainty in regard to freight. I hope that the High Commissioner will be able to do something. If he can, we shall not hold back the announcement longer than is reasonable. If the outlook is bright we shall make an announcement in regard to the advance, but that announcement will come from the  president  of the Board, the Acting Prime Minister. I ask the honorable senator not to be pessimistic in regard to the forthcoming season. It is not too late. I have had reports from the different States, and I believe that the farmers are going to exceed the area they put in last year. I understand that in New South. Wales, where there was an enormous harvest, a good deal of new land is being put under crop. I had an opportunity of going through the Riverina district, and I saw the land being cropped there. In Victoria the position is the same. However, the fact that the farmers are making an effort to get the land under crop is no reason why we should not give them every assistance. I assure the honorable senator that the Board is sympathetic, and will make the advances at the earliest possible moment, consistent with sound business. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senateadjourned at 7.11 a.m. (Tuesday). 
Will the Min ister cause a cable to be sent to the War Office, London, to ascertain what is being done to supply steel helmets for the use of Australian troops in France? 
We have received a cable from the War Office stating that steel helmets have been issued to our troops in the same proportion as to other troops engaged at the front. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Postmaster-General been drawn to a cable from London on 20th May stating that Australian nurses in France complained that they have not been receiving their mails since they left Egypt? 
A question was asked in the Senate on that matter yesterday, and I promised then that inquiries would be made. 
In view of the statement that  Mr. Oliver  has not yet been appointed Consulting Sanitary Engineer for Canberra, and that no money has yet been expended in that direction, will the Acting Prime' Minister give an assurance that no appointment of the kind will be made until the report of the Royal Commission on the Home Affairs Department is presented? 
I do not feel that I can give such an undertaking without knowing the facts. The honorable senator might later in the day, on the Supply Bill, put me in possession of some of the reasons why the appointment should not be made until the Commission has reported. In the meantime I shall endeavour to get into consultation with the Minister of Home Affairs, and see the file, to ascertain if the action the honorable member suggests is proper to be taken. 
By leave, I wish to make a persona] explanation. In the  Age  this morning a rather illuminating speech that I made last night is described as a long, rambling speech, and my effort is dismissed in about three lines. 
The honorable senator is not making a personal explanation. 
There is nothing in the Standing Orders to prohibit a speech being either long or rambling, and therefore for a newspaper to say that a speech was either or both is no reflection on myself as presiding officer, or on the conduct of the business of the Senate. 
The honorable senator, instead of making a personal explanation, is merely reiterating the points in his previous speech. If he has been misrepresented he is entitled to explain in what way that has been done. 
-The standing order relating to personal explanations provides : 
By the indulgence of the Senate a senator may explain matters of a personal nature, although there be no question before the Senate; but such matters may not be debated. 
The honorable senator is simply proceeding to make his speech over again, which he is not entitled to do. A mere complaint against a newspaper, unless the honorable senator can show that it has misrepresented something he said, does not come within the scope of a personal explanation. 
That is not a subject for a personal explanation so far as the honorable senator is concerned. The honorable senator will have plenty of opportunities to deal with this matter later, or can move a specific motion concerning it. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
It is necessary under the Representation Act to have a re-subdivision of the electorates for the House of Representatives after the taking of every ten-year census, and once in between, at every fifth year. That Act should automatically come into operation this year, but it is found that a re-casting of the membership would bring about this result: no State would get an increased representation, but South Australia would lose one member by the merest fraction, and as the fraction by which she would be deprived of her present representation is so small, and, as so many men are absent from that State at the war, " it is doubtful whether it would be fair to proceed with the enumeration now. . Consequently, the Government have decided to suspend the operation of a section of the principal Act. No injustice will be done to any State by permitting the representation of South Australia to remain as it is at present. Indeed, it is quite possible that if South Australia were deprived of a representative now, she would regain the required quota within, perhaps, the brief period of one month. In all the circumstances, the Government think that the course which they are now pursuing is a wise one. 
I wish to ask the Assistant Minister if it is not a fact that men enrolled in South Australia who are absent at the war retain their enrolment? In other words, are they not regarded as being present in that State? I would also remindhonorable senators that quite a number of lads serving at the front will come of age during their absence from their homes. Can the Assistant Minister devise some means by which these men may be registered, so that they may have their electoral rights conserved during their absence from Australia ? 
I would point out to the honorable senator that the electoral quota is determined, not by the number of voters upon the roll, but by the population of the States. All that is humanly possible has already been done to retain upon the rolls the names of men who have left the Commonwealth with our Expeditionary Forces. But I do not claim that we have achieved perfection in that respect. In ascertaining the population of a State, the practice which is ordinarily followed by the Statistician's Office is to mark off the number of persons who leave it. Undoubtedly, the population of South Australia has declined by reason of the fact that quite a number of men have left that State for the front. To my mind, it would be ridiculous for us to alter the basis of representation now. I think that the honorable senator would have done well to allow the Bill to pass without criticism, seeing that South Australia is the only State which is vitally concerned in it. 
I take it that the statistical returns are compiled from the departures recorded by boats. When the troops from South Australia return from the war, they will again be counted as residents of that State. But the population of South Australia to-day, consequent upon the war and the recent drought, is so uncertain that it is inadvisable to alter the basis of representation. 
If we paid strict regard to the population of South Australia to-day, that State would lose a member in the House of Representatives. But, owing to the shifting character of the population, we do not think it would be fair to take action in the direction suggested, and in this Bill we are asking Parliament to indorse our view. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
This measure is very like an old friend, but its provisions assure much more liberal treatment to our returned wounded and invalided soldiers than has hitherto been extended to them. Indeed, there is no legislation on the statute-book of any country which provides for such generous treatment both to men who have been maimed in battle and to the dependants of those who have fallen. At the same time, ' there are no new or revolutionary principles embodied in it. The pensions payable under the principal Act have been liberalized in many directions. In the first place, a widowed mother who has lost a son upon whom she was dependent has been placed on the same plane as a widow. Then the pension of persons totally incapacitated has been increased from £1 to 30s. per week. It was generally recognised that a pension of £1 per week to a man who had been maimed for life and who prior to enlisting was in receipt of perhaps £3 per week, was altogether too low. A genuine effort has been made to overcome this difficulty, and the only question which we now have to consider is, not whether the new rate is too liberal, but whether it is liberal enough. As a matter of convenience the Bill sets out the amount of the pensions, which are to be paid fortnightly instead of weekly. Under the Act at present operating an allowance of £13 per annum is made in respect of a child whose father has fallen at the front. In this Bill it is proposed to increase this amount to £1 per fortnight in the case of the first child, 15s. per fortnight in the case of the second child, and 10s. per fortnight in the case of the third and each subsequent child. It will be seen, therefore, that a widow who is left with two children will be granted 17s. 6d. per week for their maintenance. That, I think, is a very just extension of the principle underlying the Bill with which . honorable senators will agree. In the case of orphan children the pensions provided under this Bill are £1 per fortnight for a child not more than ten years of age, 25s. per fortnight for a child between ten and fourteen years of age, and 30s. per fortnight for a child between fourteen and sixteen years of age. In fixing these amounts we have paid due regard to the fact that a growing child is practically as costly to keep as is a man. The Bill further provides that the pensions payable to members of our Expeditionary Forces are not to be reduced within six months from the date of their commencement, irrespective of the amount which an injured soldier may earn as the result of employment in any capacity. Under the principal Act pensions are payable to female dependants, but these cease upon their marriage or re-marriage. The Bill provides that in the case of female dependants the pensions may be continued for two years after marriage or re-marriage. I do not know that there is any particular virtue in this amendment, apart from the fact that it recognises that the pension is paid for the loss of the husband at the time of his death. Most of the matters dealt with in the Bill can better be discussed in Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment. 

 Sitting suspended from3.17 to4.20 p.m. 

The object of the amendment is that the Stats War Councils, which will be appointed or recognised by the Governor in Council in each State, shall be approved by the GovernorGeneral in order that they may be brought into conformity with the purpose of the Bill. Their approval by the Governor-General being required will indicate that this is a Federal matter, for the carrying out of which we are using State aid. 
-Yes. The honorable senator will see that that is necessary, because the members of a State War Council might takeit upon themselves to refuse to act in conformity with the general scheme. The Governor-General in Council must have some reserve power to secure uniformity of action. Without making provision for this approval of State War Councils by the GovernorGeneral, we should be unable to control them for the fulfilment of the purposes of the fund. I move - 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
Motion agreed to. 
Clause 6- 
The trustees shall be charged with the duties of- 
investing in securities of the Commonwealth or a State, or on fixed deposit in any bank incorporated or carrying on business in the Commonwealth, or in current account in the Commonwealth Bank, such part of the fund as is not immediately required for the purposes for which the fund has been established; 

 Mouse of Representatives' Amendments. - After " deposit " insert " or on current account "-omit " or in current account in the Commonwealth Bank." 
.- The object of these amendments is to enable the trustees not only to place money on fixed deposit in the Commonwealth Bank, and in other banks, but, if desirable, to place money on current account in banks other than the Commonwealth Bank. The Bill aimed at providing that the working account should be kept with the Commonwealth Bank. That aim will still be kept in view, but it has been represented that it may be necessary in some places to have a current account in some bank other than the Commonwealth Bank. Under the clause aspassed by the Senate, the trustees would be tied up so thatthey could not have a current account in any but the Commonwealth Bank. It is hoped that the ramifications of the fund will extend to every corner of she Commonwealth, and it would not be wise, therefore; to tie the hands of the trustees in that way. I move - 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
Motion agreed to. 
Clause 7 (Distribution by State War Councils for the relief, assistance, and benefit of Australian soldiers and their dependants). 

 House of Representatives' Amendment - Leave out " relief." 
I move - 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
It was objected in another place that " relief " imported the idea of pauperism or charity, which is foreign to the purpose of the Bill. 
Motion agreed to. 
Clause 8 - 
The report of each audit shall be made to the Prime Minister. . . . 

 House of Representatives' Amendment - Leave out " Prime Minister," and insert " Commonwealth Treasurer." 
. -I move - 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
The Prime Minister is,  ex officio,  Chairman of the Board of Trustees, but the Auditor-General's report must be made to the Treasurer. 
Motion agreed to. 
Resolutions reported; report adopted. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
It is in conformity with the usual practice of Parliament to vote a lump sum to be paid into the Consolidated Revenue to meet claims for invalid and old-age pensions. The proportions are about the same as in previous years, allowing for normal increases. The amount appropriated is £3,500,000, which can be spent for invalid and old-age pensions only. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment. 
I move - 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
It strengthens the original Act, and is made at the instance of the Crown Law Department, to avoid any possible attack on our existing legislation regarding alien enemies. 
Motion agreed to. 
Amendment inserting new clause fixing commencement and operation agreed to. 
Resolutions reported; report adopted. 

 Sitting suspended from 4.48 to 5.30p.m. 

In moving 
That this Bill he now read a second time. 
I desire to say that it appropriates £2,752,388 to provide two months' Supply from the end of the current financial year. That appropriation is based upon the Estimates for the present year. Although the Bill provides for the granting of Supply for two months from the end of June, it does not necessarily follow that Parliament will be adjourned for that period. The motion which I shall submit at a later stage will give the Government an opportunity of calling Parliament together earlier if that course be necessary. Assuming that the Prime Minister returns - as we hope he will - on 24th July, we shall arrange to call Parliament together as soon after that date as possible. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clauses 2 and 3 postponed. 
Clause . 4 agreed to. 
Abstract postponed. 
Schedule. 
I desire to ask the  President  a few questions in connexion with this schedule. I should like to know - 
What is the position of the official reporting staff with regard to transfers to other branches of theParliamentary Service, or to the Departments of the Public Service? 
Is there anything in the Public Service Act to bar these officers from promotion to positions at the table of either House, for which their training fits them? 
Has any opinion been given by the Crown Law' officers on this point? 
When the last two vacancies occurred in the Senate Department, were applications from members ot the official reporting staff entertained? 
Are senior members of the staff to sta; at the same level for years with no prospect of promotion, while junior officers who enter the service in other branches as typists have the right of promotion to the highest posts in the parliamentary service? 
ls it not a fact that members of the reporting staff are well-fitted to carry out the higher duties pertaining to this Parliament? 
The point I wish .to have made clear is whether any member of the parliamentary reporting staff has been debarred from reaching the highest post within the gift of this Parliament. I believe the .Committee will agree with me that every officer of this Parliament, no matter how humble his position may be, is entitled to apply for, and reach, the highest position in the parliamentary service. I merely put these questions to the  President  in order to elicit information. 
So far as I have been able to follow the questions raised by  Senator Needham,  he desires to know whether there is anything in the Public Service Act which would debar any member of the  Barnard  staff from appointment to any of the higher positions for which his capacity might qualify him. In reply, I would point out that there is absolutely nothing in the Public Service Act which would debar any member of the  Hansard  staff, or any officer in the Commonwealth Service, from attaining the Highest position in the Service. In regard to that general position I am fortified in the opinion I have expressed by the opinion of the Attorney-General's Department. In reference to the specific questions put by the honorable senator, I have already pointed out that if members of the  Hansard  staff are fully qualified for any higher position, or any alternative position in any portion of the Public Service, for which applications are invited, they are eligible, and there is nothing to prevent them from being transferred to such positions. Not only is there nothing in the Public Service Act prohibiting them, from securing such promotion, but the Act expressly provides for opportunities' being given to officers to obtain promotion. In reply to the question were applications called for the two most recent appointments made to the Senate staff, I would point out that no applications were invited, 'because section 42 of the Public Service Act distinctly provides - 
Whenever a vacancy occurs in any office, and it is expedient to fill such vacancy by the promotion of an officer, the Governor-General may, on the recommendation of the Commissioner, subject to the provisions of this Act - appoint to fill such vacancy an officer of the Department in. which such vacancy occurs, regard being had to the relative efficiency, or, in the event of an equality of efficiency of two or more officers, to the relative seniority, of the officers of such. Department,; or appoint to fill such vacancy any qualified officer from any other Department, &amp;c. 
The Act, therefore, definitely lays it down that if there be a competent and capable officer in any particular Department in which a vacancy occurs he shall have the first claim- upon such vacancy. It is only when we cannot get the highest ability  in a  Department that we ought to look outside of that Department for an officer to  fill  any vacancy that may arise in it. It has been the general impression that all our parliamentary officers are in one Department, and that every one of them has an equal right to aspire to any position which may become vacant in any portion of the parliamentary service. But I would point out that the presiding officers  of  Parliament -  Mr. Speaker  and myself - are helpless in this matter, because we are bound by the provisions of the Public Service Act. While we act as the head of the parliamentary Departments, we also occupy positions as Public Service Commissioners for those Departments. The Public Service Act distinctly constitutes five separate Departments in' the parliamentary service. Sub-section 3 of section 14 of the Act says - 
The officers of the Senate, the officers of the House df Representatives, the officers of the Parliamentary Library, the officers of the Parliamentary Reporting Staff, and the officers of the Joint House Committee, shall be deemed to constitute separate departments under this Act. 
The only two vacancies that have occurred in any Department under my jurisdiction were those which occurred in the Senate Department recently, and there were two exceptionally competent officers there, who. in my opinion, had the first claim to promotion in it. Therefore, acting in strict accordance with the provisions of the Public Service Act, I, as Commissioner for the Department, and as officer in charge, promoted them to the vacancies without calling for any applications whatever. It has been represented to me  -Senator Needham  himself has represented to me - that the  Hansard  staff is an exceedingly capable one, and ought to get full opportunities and facilities for promotion. I agree with that to the full. The members of that staff are exceptionally capable, and. honorable senators owe a great deal to them for the ability which they exhibit in the discharge of their official duties. But I would point out further that they are under no disability, because the Public Service Act provides that they are eligible for appointment to any other position in the Service, provided they are fully qualified, and provided that there cannot be found an equally competent officer in the Department in which a vacancy has occurred. I would also remind honorable senators that whilst the rank and file of our Public Service start at something like £120 or £150 per annum, the members of the  Hansard  staff started at £500 per annum. That there is any special hardship imposed upon the members of a staff who start at £500 per annum when other officers in the service have to begin at £120 per annum, and to spend long years in working themselves ux to a higher position, with correspondingly higher emoluments, I fail to see. 
While we owe the  Hansard  staff every consideration and give its members every recognition, I think it may be said that, on the whole, this Parliament has been disposed to deal fairly by them. In regard to the question which has been raised about typists, I would point out that when we had permanent typists they were entitled to aspire to the highest positions in any Department in which a vacancy might occur, either in our Public Service or on the parliamentary staff. We have no permanent typists now connected with the  Hansard  staff, and, so far as my influence goes, we never shall again have permanent typists there. We had a very bad and very bitter experience with our permanent typists, because, notwithstanding that they were well treated, that they received ample leave to make up for any strenuous work which they had to perform, what did we find? That one of them, after getting nearly the whole session off on sick leave, under the plea that he was suffering from nervous breakdown owing to overwork, immediately this Parliament went into recess, accepted service with a State Government, and was actually receiving full pay from the State Treasury whilst also drawing full pay from us. In the case of another of these typists, all he was asked during the last recess was to do very occasional work, and to stand by for the remainder of the time, and he drew full pay for so doing. I am sure that there are hundreds of thousands of persons outside . this Parliament who would be very glad to get their living on similarly easy terms. Yet when this officer's services were required in an emergency, he was not here, because he had gone away to Sydney without leave. He was suspended, and subsequently reprimanded and fined for his offence, and he has since left the service. So far as I am concerned I do not intend to employ any more . permanent typists, because the work is not of a permanent character. ' When we had permanent typists we had to transfer them during the recess to the control of the Public Service Commissioner, and that arrangement always proved very unsatisfactory, and was the cause of considerable trouble. Ab the work is of a temporary character,  Mr. Speaker  and myself have come to the conclusion that it is very much better to employ temporary hands. I think that I have now replied to all the questions put to me by  Senator Needham,  but if there is any further information that I can supply I shall be exceedingly glad to give it. We have every desire to treat with the utmost fairness, and to give valuable recognition to, the officers employed in all our parliamentary departments. We treat them well, and even generously, and, so far as I know, none of them has just ground for complaint. 
.- I should like to learn from the  President  whether the staff of the parliamentary gardens have recently received any increments of pay to meet the increased cost of living. They have not complained to me, but I go through the gardens occasionally, and I know that the men employed there are carrying out their work to the best of their ability. I should like to know whether the wages they are paid are equal to the wages paid to men doing similar work in outside employment 1 I admit that they are not called upon to work under arduous conditions. 
I agree that they are, because I have seen them at work. Perhaps the  President  will be in a position to say whether they are receiving such wages as they would be entitled to under an arbitration award, or the decision of a wages board. I know that, while there is not much trouble in securing increases for men in the clerical division, there is difficulty often in securing justice for the bottom dog. 
I was giving the honorable senator a cue to enable him to state exactly what is the position of the men to -whom I refer. 
I desire to give my meed of praise for the conscientious work done by the men employed in the parliamentary gardens. I know what work of the kind is. It has been my duty to see these men' and their work, and I am glad to admit that the Commonwealth Parliament has a fine staff of men employed in these gardens. The honorable senator has stated that lower-paid men find it more difficult to secure increases of payment than do the higher-paid servants of the Commonwealth; but I may tell him that, during my term of office, the men employed in the parliamentary gardens have had two increases of pay. Their wages were increased soon after I took office, and they were further increased from 9s. to 9s. 6d. per day on the last Estimates. I proposed that increase after making many inquiries. There is no Wages Board decision affecting these men. My experience is that to-day, for gardeners' work, men can be procured at 7s. per day. I find that the highest wage paid to first class gardeners in the Melbourne Botanic Gardens is 9s. per day. We are giving our men 9s. 6d., so that there is no justification for any complaint on the score of the rate of wages paid to them. They are deserving and worthy men. We treat them well, and they are given privileges that men outside never get. My sympathy is always with the man who has to work hard for a moderate wage, and I agree that these men are entitled to the generous treatment that this Parliament is always willing to extend to its deserving employees. 
.- I am very much interested in the development of the oil-fields on the  Valala  River, in Papua. I recognise that the Government are probably doing what they can in the expenditure of the vote for the purpose; but if we intend to succeed in the proper development of the Papuan oil-fields, we must spend a large sum, or we need not bother with the matter at all. It is of no use " to spoil the ship for a ha'porth of tar." The Papuan oil-fields have been reported upon by  Dr. Wade  and other experts. At present the Commonwealth is supplied with oil from Batavia and the United States of America. It would be well if the Commonwealth were self-contained in this matter. I have read  Dr. Wade's  reports with the greatest interest. The more money that is spent in the development of these oil-fields the better eventually for the Commonwealth and the Territory itself. I know that private enterprise companies are only too anxious to get control of these fields. I am satisfied that if we developed the fields we should be unable, without an alteration of the Constitution, to sell the oil derived from them. 
Voluminous reports have been written upon them by  Dr. Wade  and others, which show that oil does exist in this part of Papua.  Dr. Wade  has stated that there are several ways which might be adopted of getting the oil to Australia. It is suggested that it might be conveyed from *he wells through a pipe from which it could be poured into the hold of a vessel standing off some distance from the shore, because the water close to the beach is very shallow. I have said that if we brought the oil to Australia we could not sell a pint of it to the people without an alteration of the Constitution. 
I recognise that the Navy could consume it. I have been oyer that part of the Territory, and the oil can be seen bubbling up from the surface in the Valala River district. I believe that more oil will be produced there than our Navy could consume, and the Government might consider what could be done with the surplus, if there is any real intention to develop the field. 
The oil has been found. I am aware that  Mr. Newdell  has investigated, on behalf of a company, prospects of shale oil at Kangaroo Island and at Mount Gambier. At the close of the war there will be demands for oil from every part of the world. 1 trust that the Minister will say whether the Government have any policy for the development of the oil-fields of Papua for the benefit of the Territory and the Commonwealth. 
.- There is not the slightest doubt that there is oil in Papua. The greatest compliment that could be paid to the work done in Papua by  Dr. Wade  and his small party is found in the fact that private enterprise in Australia is very keen to help us in the development of the oil-fields in the Territory. 
The honorable senator may accept my assurance that he need not worry on that account. Only yesterday we increased the staff under  Dr. Wade.  It is not a question of looking for oil in Papua. The experiments now being carried out are to ascertain the quantity of oil that is there. Until something is known of the quantity of oil to be tapped it is difficult to determine what machinery is required for the development of the field. As to the power of the Commonwealth to sell oil derived from the Papuan fields, I would ask  Senator Blakey  to have faith in the future. There is no doubt that for a number of years we shall be able to use for our own services all the oil that is likely to be produced. Let us get the oil in sufficient quantities and we shall soon discover a means of selling it to people willing to buy it. 
I move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to reduce the vote for the Department of Defence by £1. 
When honorable senators have listened to what I have to say, and the facts I will submit, I am sure they will agree that I have a case, and whether they will support me or not will then be a matter for them to decide. On or about 24th November, 1915, when I was in Perth, I rang up the District Commandant, Military Head-Quarters, Perth, to find out if I could get information upon three or four matters. I was informed that the State Commandant was not just then in his room. I was put on to the Chief  Clerk,  Lieutenant Schuler. I asked him through the telephone could he give me any information on the question of delayed pay of soldiers. Complaints had been made that there was a delay of two or three days in the payment of soldiers. I wanted to know the reason for this. I asked him to inform me, through the State Commandant, about the supplyof artificial limbs for maimed soldiers returning from the front. I asked also about the residence of a soldier named Luke Bannon. The Chief  Clerk  assured me that he would very shortly let me have the information for which I asked. I allowed two or three days to pass, and then rang up the Chief  Clerk,  Military HeadQuarters, again. I asked him if he had the information ready in reply to the questions I had put to him, and his answer, so far as the question of delayed pay to soldiers was concerned, was that he haddrafted a letter in reply to me, which he had submitted to  Major Ralph  - who, I understand, is now  Colonel Ralph.  He informed me that  Colonel Ralph  had said that it was not necessary to send that letter to me. I asked the Chief  Clerk  then whether I could speak to  Colonel Ralph.  This officer was not at the moment in the office, but later I succeeded in holding a conversation with him on the telephone. I asked him, first of all, if a lettertome on the subject of delayed pay for soldiers had been submitted to him by the Chief  Clerk.  He replied, "Yes." I asked him if he had declined to send that letter on to me, and if it was correct that it was not necessary to send it to me.  His  reply was again, " Yes." I asked him why he had taken that stand, and he said that " A telephonic inquiry should be met with a telephonic reply; " that he was a busy man, and that all the officers in the Military Head-Quarters, Perth, were busy men. I said I recognised that was so, but that members of Parliament were also busy men, and occasionally used the telephone to make inquiries in order to expedite replies. I also told him that his superior officers at the Victoria Barracks, Melbourne, were just as busy, but that, on every occasion on which I had rung up Military Head-Quarters, St. Kilda-road, for information from any of the officers, from the Acting Secretary of Defence downwards, I had received a written reply the very nest day, or, at latest, on the second day afterwards. 
I quite agree.  Major Ralph  took it on himself to tell me that a telephonic inquiry should be met with a telephonic -reply. It was, as  Senator Maughan  interjects, like his cheek. There is something in the attitude of that officer typical of a military tyranny that may be growing up here, similar to that which it is costing us thousands of lives to crush out in Germany, and I hope it has no counterpart in the Defence Department in other parts of Australia. I told  Major Ralph  I would take further action. He said he would refer the matter to the State Commandant, and I told him that he could not shelter himself behind that officer, as he had taken certain action, and I did not care whether the State Commandant backed him up or not. Two or three days later I again rang him up and asked him if I could get the letter.  His  reply was that he had consulted the State Commandant, who had decided that he was right in his attitude. Faced with this serious position in which a departmental officer could dictate to a duly elected representative of the people, I sent the following lettergram to the Minister of Defence on 26th November, 1915: - 
Sang Chief Clerk, Military Head-Quarters here, inquiring position  re  complaints about delay payment members A.I.F. Forces. He prepared letter in reply; but  Major Ralph  said it not necessary to send it to me. Have asked  Major Ralph  forward letter. He refuses. I ask you instruct him do so, otherwise appears departmental official defying duly elected representative . of people. 
I received the following urgent telegram in reply from the Secretary of Defence on 29th November: - 
Minister out of town. Will have immediate inquiries made regarding subject-matter your telegram twenty-seventh. 
Secretary, DEFENCE 
Not receiving a reply for a few days, I sent the following lettergram to the Minister of Defence on 7th December: - 
No reply my complaint  re  refusal  Major Ralph  forward letter to me, reply certain inquiries. Am I to understand that he can refuse to forward letter to a member, when latter makes inquiries behalf of his constituents T 
I further wrote to the Minister on 21st February of this year, and received the following reply from him, dated 25th February : - 
I am in receipt of your letter of the 21st inst., with reference to the refusal of  Major Ralph.  Military Head-Quarters, Perth, to forward you certain information which you asked for. It is not correct, as you state, that no reply was forwarded to your representations. I have looked up the file, and the following is a copy of a telegram that was sent you on 11th December, 1915:- " Your lettergram, 7th instant.  Major Ralph  has followed general rule which has been adopted to save conflict on matters of administration between head of Department and subordinate officers. This has been found necessary in the past, and am sure no discourtesy to you is intended in the matter. Requests for written information, as a rule, with the exception of purely routine matters, such as inquiries about individual cases of .delayed payments, should bc made to Minister or Secretary. 
Not in any sense of the term, because, at that time, the press all over Australia teemed with complaints about the late payment of soldiers, and the Minister had practically announced that he was preparing a new scheme to prevent the recurrence of late payments. I understood that he was going to place in the respective camps a paying or clerical staff. The Minister's communication strengthens my position, because I was not asking  Major Ralph  for any of the class of information which the Minister says should be sought only from the Minister or Secretary. On 25th. February I acknowledged receipt of that letter, saying I would write further, as I was leaving for Perth, and on 2nd March I received the following reply : - 
I am directed to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 25th ult., in reply to the Minister's letter of even date, respecting the non-supply of certain information desired by you from an officer on the Military HeadQuarters Staff, Perth. 
On 3rd March I wrote to the Minister of Defence as follows: - 
Further to mine of 2oth ult., in reply to yours of same date,  re  the refusal of  Major Ralph  to forward me a certain letter, I desire to say that, while I do not doubt that you despatched the telegram of 11th December, 1915, I repeat that 1 have not yet received it. It is the' first time since I have been a member of the Senate that I have not received a Ministerial or departmental communication addressed to me, which, to say the least of it, appears somewhat strange. 
The information I sought was in connexion with delayed payments to soldiers. The matter was being publicly discussed at the time, and surely it could not have been of any assistance to the enemy to have given me the information. However, I do not intend to pursue the matter further per medium of correspondence; but I do intend taking the first opportunity of bringing the matter before a body of men who are clothed with at least as much authority as a departmental officer, even although that officer is  Major (or Colonel) Ralph. 
I have not yet received that telegram of 11th December. 
As soon as you told 
Us you had not received it we sent you a copy. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.30 to 8 p.m. 

.- The honorable senator did not inform me that he intended to bring this matter forward this evening, otherwise I should have brought up the departmental files in order that I might be in a position to deal with the details of the case. 
But surely the honorable senator does not expect me to carry about with me the file relating to the case. If the Committee is to be asked to pass judgment on this matter, nothing would bo lost by allowing it to hear both sides of the case. However, as I have not the departmental file with me, I intend to confine my reply to the matters that have been mentioned by the honorable senator. In the first place, he informed the Committee that when he rang up - not the District Commandant, but a subordinate officer - he asked that officer three questions. One of these related to the matter of delayed pay, another to the supply of artificial limbs, and the third to the residence of a soldier. The honorable senator afterwards read ' a letter from me, in which I intimated that the instruction had been given to the District Commandants that, whilst they might reply to inquiries in respect of matters of routine, all questions involving matters of administrative policy were to be referred to the Minister or the Secretary of the Department. A moment's consideration will show the necessity for that. We have in Australia six District Commandants, who have under them a number of subordinate officers. If District Commandants were allowed to give decisions on matters of administration when requested to do so, either by members of Parliament, or by anybody else, it is obvious that we should get the most confusing decisions all over the Commonwealth - decisions for which the Minister would ultimately be held responsible. After a District Commandant had given a decision on a. matter of administrative policy it would be idle for me to plead, " Oh, but that was given by the District Commandant in Western Australia." The reply at once would be,  ' You are responsible for the actions of your officers." There is a distinction, I admit, between questions of administrative policy and questions of routine. Now, one of the three questions raised .by the honorable senator clearly involved a matter of administrative policy, another might easily cover a similar matter, whilst the third was obviously a question of routine. Seeking the address of a soldier is plainly a matter of routine, which does not need to be referred to the Minister. Let me deal, first, with the question of delayed pay.  Senator Needham  has said that at the time of which he speaks the press was full of statements in reference to deferred pay, and also that I was about to introduce a system which would overcome the difficulty. Let me assume that the Chief  Clerk,  in reply to a communication from the honorable senator, and knowing that his chief was about to introduce a new system to deal with the question of delayed pay, had taken it upon himself to inform the honorable senator as to what the policy of the Department was going to be. In such circumstances either the clerk or myself would have to leave the Department, and it certainly would not be me. Now, let me deal with the question of the supply of artificial limbs. At the time of which  Senator Needham  spoke, that very question was under consideration, because we had formed War Councils in all the States, and we had organized medical committees in conjunction with those councils. The question was being discussed through the Federal War Committee and the State War Councils whether we ought to continue the old system under which the Department supplied artificial limbs all of a standard type, or whether we ought to send the incapacitated soldier to one of these medical committees, which would take into consideration his occupation, and advise him as to the use of the artificial limb which would best enable him to earn a livelihood. There is a very important question of policy involved there, and how could the Chief  Clerk  in Perth tell the honorable senator what the policy of the Department in reference to it was going to be ? Honorable senators will see that the action of the Chief  Clerk  was wrong in that he had no right to "tell  Senator Needham  that he had prepared a letter for the signature of the District Commandant. I take it that honorable senators are just as much concerned in upholding the discipline of the Department as I am, and surely it is not right, even in response to a requisition from a member of Parliament, that a subordinate officer, who is not responsible for his particular branch of his Department, should impart the information that he has prepared something for the District Commandant which that officer may or may not indorse. If that sort of conduct were permitted, we should quickly have honorable senators who were dissatisfied with the decision of a District Commandant, getting information from subordinate officers that something else had been recommended by them, and quoting it in opposition to the decision of the District Commandant. There is another phase of this question to which I desire to call attention, namely, the right of a member of Parliament to demand a written reply to a telephonic request. I -ask honorable senators to put the position to themselves, and they will see that an officer has a right to take such action as will protect himself. Suppose, for example, that the written reply which a subordinate officer sent to a member of Parliament was unsatisfactory to the latter, and that he came to this chamber, and said, " I asked that officer for suchandsuch information over the telephone, and this is his written reply." The officer would have nothing with which to protect himself. He could not come here, and say,, ' ' The member of Parliament did not say that over the telephone. He said something' else." But if the member wrote for certain information, then the officer would be protected, because he would have the member's letter. To urge, therefore, that an officer, in replying to a telephonic communication, should commit himself in writing is not fair. While claiming fair play for members of Parliament, we have a right to extend that fair play to officers of the Department, no matter how subordinate their positions may be. I hope that  Senator Needham  will not think, that this matter was in any way personal to himself. So far as I am concerned, it was not. But I have had many experiences of members of Parliament writing to District Commandants - cases in which the Commandants have replied upon matters of administrative policy, and when these- matters subsequently came before the central administration and before me a different decision was given. Then I found myself in this position : that the member would quote the opinion of the District Commandant against that of the Minister. That is a very undesirable state of things. In a Department like that of Defence we cannot have six heads. Somebody must be responsible, and that somebody must be the Minister for the time being. There have been cases in which members of Parliament have written  to  District Commandants on matters involving important questions of policy. I found that one of the Commandants was replying to these communications. I discovered it because the member in question,- in backing up a claim which he had made, used the letter which he had received f rom the District Commandant as his authority, anil quoted it against me. I at once issued an instruction to that Com-  mandant,  and sent out a circular to other District Commandants, that all matters of administrative policy in respect of which members of Parliament requested information were to be referred direct to the Minister or the Secretary of the Department to deal with. In the interests of honorable senators themselves, that is the only course which ought to be followed. In regard to the application by  Senator Needham  for information as to the residence of a soldier, the District Commandant ought certainly to have supplied that information, which could have been given over the telephone.  Senator Needham  has stated that ' he has frequently r.ung up the District Head-quarters in Melbourne for the purpose of eliciting information, and that the information which he sought has been given over the telephone, and afterwards confirmed by letter. But I may tell honorable senators that every letter that is forwarded to a member of Parliament, even though it may be signed by the Secretary of the Department, has previously come under the eye of the Minister. Obviously, however, that cannot take place at District Head-quarters. The officers there have not access to the Minister, and therefore cannot refer their replies to him. Moreover, where members of Parliament ring up Central Head-quarters, the decision which is given covers the whole .district, and consequently they do not get the conflicting decisions that they would get if decisions were given from the six District Head-quarters. I hope that when  Senator Needham  looks at the matter in this light, he will see that, behind the" apparently discourteous treatment to which he thinks he has been subjected, the officer concerned was merely obeying an instruction which he had received from me to the effect that he was hot to give decisions in writing on matters of administrative policy, but that such questions were to be referred to Head-quarters. But the honorable senator himself read a paragraph in which I stated that, in respect of matters of routine, the officers concerned were at liberty to supply the desired information. Two of the questions about which  Senator Needham  sought information palpably involved questions of administrative policy, which no District Commandant could settle. 
Yes; but in justice to myself, I would point out that, when we received  Senator Needham's  first lettergram, we had no knowledge of the circumstances, and had to telegraph to Western Australia to find out what it was all about. Immediately we received a reply from the District Commandant, we forwarded the honorable senator- a lettergram, which he says that he never received. I accept his statementin all good faith. But there is in existence a " flimsy " record initialed by me to show that such a communication was sent. Moreover, when the honorable senator informed us that he had not received a reply, he was told that on a specific date an answer had been sent to him, a copy of which was also forwarded. I do not say that  Major Ralph  should have done it, but the District Commandant should have sent  Senator Needham  a letter informing him of the instructions that had been issued. There was some little carelessness on his part in not giving the honorable senator that information. If it had been given it would have prevented any idea on the honorable senator's part that he was being discourteously treated. 
I have a word or two to say in reply to the Minister of Defence. I emphasize the point that I did not demand the letter. When  Major Ralph  put the question to me over the telephone, "Do you demand the letter?" I said "No; it is simply a request." In connexion with the artificial limbs, I did not ask for a letter, because, so far as I know, no letter on that subject had been drafted. 
The letter for which I asked was a letter in connexion with the irregular payment of soldiers, and I did not demand that letter, but requested that it should be sent to me. I desired to know from  Major Ralph  why he refused to send me the letter, and to this day he has not told me why he did so. The Minister of Defence admits that the District Commandant, if not  Major Ralph,  should have informed me of the reason why the letter was not sent. I do not blame the District Commandant, but I still blame  Major Ralph  for the discourtesy. I further contend that it was not a question of administration upon which I sought information, but a question of individual payments to soldiers, which, the Minister admits in his letter, was discussed by other District Headquarters in correspondence from officials. On that I stake my case. I am not a novice in politics, and if it had been a question of administrative policy I should have applied for information concerning it to the Minister or to Central Headquarters, Melbourne. It was simply a routine matter, and I wanted to know why individual soldiers were not given their pay on the due date. I agree that there is no personal feeling in this matter between the Minister and me, nor is there any personal feeling in connexion with it between  Major Ralph  and me. I have been led to move my request with a view to protect other members of this Parliament against what I consider to be a spirit that ought not to be encouraged.  Major Ralph  could very easily have told me over the telephone, " I consider this a matter of administration, and I therefore cannot send you the letter." He had not even the common courtesy to say that, and to this day I have not received the letter. In view of the admission of the Minister of Defence that the District Commandant or  Major Ralph  should have explained to me the reason why the letter could not be sent, and having ventilated the matter, I ask leave to withdraw my request. 
Request, by leave, withdrawn. 
The experience of  Senator Needham  is not that of honorable senators representing the State of Queensland, because it is very pleasing to know that there we have a Commandant, supported by officers, who go to no end of trouble to make the work of the representatives of the people as easyas possible. I wish to bring under the notice of the Minister a matter connected with the transport of troops from Queensland to Sydney. I take no exception to the arrangements made and railway facilities provided by the railway authorities in Queensland; but the delay of troop trains caused by the New South Wales railway authorities demands some attention from the Minister of Defence. I have received many complaints from soldiers who have travelled by these troop trains of the undue time taken in transporting them from Wallangarra, on the Queensland border, to Sydney. The time occupied is beyond what is reasonable. In one particular case, the details of which I have no desire to give now, but which I can furnish to the Minister, it took no less than twenty-four hours to take a trainload of artillerymen from Wallangarra to Sydney. I consider that a scandal and disgrace to the authorities concerned. It is true that this occurred during showweek in Sydney, but honorable senators will support my contention that a troop train should take precedence of other trains. 
I am not prepared to utter a general condemnation of the State railway system. It was the fault of the traffic authorities who had charge of the running of the trains. I bring the matter under the notice of the Minister of Defence in order that he may perhaps convey a friendly reminder to the Minister of Railways in New South Wales which will obviate undue delay in the future. The railway authorities should facilitate the transport of our troops in every direction. The Minister, I am sure, will agree that that is necessary. 
I have no complaints to make about the victualling of the men or their treatment on the way I simply complain of the time it took to take these trains from Wallangarra to Sydney. The accommodation provided at the Sydney end for tram transport was ample and excellent. My information is that the troop train had to stop on the slide of the track to allow of the passage of ordinary traffic. Speaking generally, I say that ordinary traffic should stand aside to make room for trains carrying our soldiers to their destination. 
.- I certainly think that inquiries should be made in regard to the matter mentioned by  Senator Maughan,  and I shall be obliged to him if he will give me the details of the instances to which he refers. At the present time we are under no compliment to the State railway authorities, because we have to pay for the carriage of soldiers. We have a right, in the circum stances, to demand that they shall be carried expeditiously and properly. 
 My request in connexion with this Department is for " more light," and I have no doubt that the Minister will be prepared to oblige me. I wish for some information concerning the enormous votes put down to contingencies. For instance, under the heading of the Cordite Factory, there appears a vote of £2,060 for contingencies, whilst the salary vote is only £600. The contingency vote in connexion with the Small Arms Factory is £50,000. The contingency vote for the Clothing Factory is £2,000 as against £300 for salaries. The contingency vote for the Harness, Saddlery, and Accoutrement Factory is £30,000, and for the Woollen Factory £10,000. For the Royal Military College there is a contingency vote of £7,500. These votes leave us without much knowledge, and as the Bill is before us for the purpose of passing these amounts the Minister might tell the Committee the reason for the great disproportion between the votes for contingencies and the votes for salaries under the same heading. The contingency would seem to be greater than the vote to which it is contingent. 
.- I explained this matter to the Committee the other night when we were considering another Supply Bill. These Supply Bills are based on the annual Estimates, and if we were to put the contingency votes in detail in these Bills each monthly Supply Bill would be as large a volume as the annual Estimates. Honorable senators are in possession of the Estimates, the details of which are grouped together in the Supply Bill. If an honorable senator desires information concerning a contingency vote he has only to turn to his copy of the Estimates and he will find the details there. The items of the vote for the Cordite Factory are set out in detail on page 91 of the Estimates, including £2,060 to be paid to the credit of Trust Fund, Cordite Factory. The Trust Fund is the working account given to each of the Defence Factories. From it are paid the wages of the employees in the particular Factory. When cordite is manufactured, it is sold to the Department at so much a pound, and the money is paid into the Trust Account. When the account runs  short, a. payment is made from the Treasury into the fund. Details of the other Factories are also to be found in the Estimates. It would be a waste of paper to print all the details of contingencies in every Supply Bill. 
.- I received the following cable to-day from the  Hon.  James McDonald, M.L.C., of Tasmania : - 
Already some discharged  men returning from  active service are unable to find suitable employment, swelling unemployed ranks, and using up their small accumulations. Hope before session closes their position will be seriously considered. 

 Mr. McDonald probably did not notice that the repatriation Bill was being put through this week. "Under that measure, provision will be made for such cases, and I hope effectively. As none of us desires to' see even a few men wanting employment, will the Minister send a cable to  Senator Long,  the Tasmanian member of the War Council, asking him, as- a trustee of the Repatriation Fund, to look into these cases, so that, for the honour of the Commonwealth, the soldiers referred to by  Mr. McDonald  may speedily know that provision is made for their immediate and future welfare? 
The communication read by the honorable senator indicates that in all the States it has not yet been properly made known that the State War Council really exists to deal with these things. In Victoria, the State Council has an excellent system of dealing with returned soldiers, and has placed a large number of men in suitable employment through the employmentbureau. We wish to see that system adopted in all the States-, and I shall have much pleasure in bringing the matter under the notice of  Senator Long,  who, no doubt, will communicate with the Tasmanian War Council. 
.- A great deal of friction arose recently in the Clothing Factory, Melbourne. Can the Minister state what condition of affairs exists there now? Are the men working amicably with the gentleman in charge, or are there complaints of pinpricks or friction that can be alleviated or removed by Ministerial intervention? "I ask this because there may still be a certain amount of discontent simmering there. 
The position at the Factory is reasonably satisfactory since the recent trouble. A board of reference has been, or is to be, constituted, and I trust that what are called little pinpricks will be obviated by reference to that body. I am not aware of any serious trouble at the Factory now, and if there were any, I should know of it. 
What is the proposal of the Government in regard to the extension of the wireless telegraphy arm of the Navy Department, for which a vote of £7,300 is asked  1  I understand that a wireless sub-Department- has been attached to the Navy Branch, and that a scheme of reorganization has been instituted. 
The wireless branch has been transferred from the Post Office to the Navy, and one of the steps the Minister for the Navy is taking is to secure a good administrator with a knowledge of wireless to take charge. That matter is not yet finalized. It is the Minister's desire to make the system not only efficient for defence, but also of use to the commercial interests of the community. 
I think EngineerLieutenant Cresswell is temporarily in charge. 
Can the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral tell the Committee whether the insulators required for the Commonwealth are being produced locally? What proportion is being bought from Australian factories, and what from the outside world! In the latter case, where do the imported articles come from? What was done in connexion with the large contract entered into some time ago with a Victorian factory for the supply of a certain proportion of the insulators required ? 
.- There has been a growing agitation in Victoria for the Department to obtain all its insulators locally as far as possible. I have had the pleasure, with other honorable senators, of- going through an insulator factory in the Ringwood district. The insulators turned out at this place  seemed  equally as good and equally as likely to suit the services of the PostmasterGeneral as any of the imported articles. If they pass the test of the Electrical Engineer, it is immaterial if we have to pay a little more for these Australian goods, even to the extent of 25 per cent. We ought to do all in our power to assist Australian industries. There are two establishments of the kind in the environment of Melbourne, and, of course, there may be similar works in the other States. In the Melbourne case, the promoters have spent large sums, and they pay union wages, and comply with all the other requirements of the law. Their only market for insulators is the Post and Telegraph Department. 
It is, and it  is  carried out under proper hygienic conditions. The men who have entered into the business are good Australians, and those whom they employ have no cause for complaint. I shall ask the Government to take note of the remarks of  Senator O'Keefe. 
There are other manufactures necessary to the Telegraph Department, such as glass jars for battery purposes, and I believe these were, a  litle  while ago, imported in large quantities. These can and have been made in the Commonwealth, but, tas we know, the Colonial article is sometimes rejected on very flimsy pretexts. In one case the manufacturer was put to much trouble in complying with suggestions made by the Department in regard to the quality of jars supplied, which were said to be not so clear as they might be, to be too thick, or not this,that, nor the other, and yet the goods corresponded remarkably well with the sample. When an Australian-manufactured article is up to sample, no difficulty should be placed in the way of trade development. The establishment and continuation of such works may be the basis of very profitable industries for Australia. We had to rely on what is now an enemy nation for much glassware, and we know that the action of that nation has cut off the supply of similar articles from an Ally. Theref ore, if by any means we can stretch a point - though not -to breaking strain - if we can meet the manufacturers, pointing out exactly what is required, and showing that we prefer local manufac tures, it will be the better for the country. " Rome was not built in a day," and there is not a prosperous industry here now which did not at its inception have to overcome many obstacles. This applies not only to the manufacture of insulators, but to that of many other articles. We have had to export our copper in order to have it converted into wire, and the war has very largely cut off the supply. Under the circumstances, there ought to be some inducement held out for the production of a proper copper wire in Australia, with a prospect of the PostmasterGeneral's Department taking a great quantity. It is only by fostering the industries in existence, and also creating industries which could exist, that we can attain the desired end, and hope to become an independent nation. We are apt to look askance at Australian goods in favour of imported articles, forgetting that the labour abroad has to be paid for in cash, whereas the building up of industries means here increased population and the circulation of money within our own borders. Only by such means can Australia fulfil her destiny. 
It is the .policy of the Government and of the Postal Department to, as far as possible, give preference to local production. All that is possible has been done in this direction. It must, not be forgotten, however, that , the Department and the Government owe a duty to themselves and to the taxpayer. We do not care for men who come to the Postal Department, and expect to have their industries subsidized simply because they call themselves Australians. Just prior to the war we were procuring Australian insulators, and all went well for a time. When difficulties in importation arose in consequence of the war - when we were in a corner, as it were - this firm doubled the price. Here was a nice position for a Minister who believed in Australian industries! We pointed out to the firm that they had probably made a mistake in their quotations, and offered to cancel the contract so as to give an opportunity to others to tender. They were not in favour of this, and proved that they had used the war as a lever in an attempt to extract more money out of the Government by accepting a substantial reduction. So long as people are prepared to be reasonable', preference will be given to Australians in these matters, but a free hand must be given to the Department to protect the taxpayer. 
And the public ought to know it. As to copper wire, there is the old difficulty of being compelled to import, but I am glad to say that, as the result of the magnificent work by the Prime Minister, the day is not far distant when all our requirements in this direction will be manufactured in Australia by Australian labour. 
Some "months ago the Minister of Defence informed us that, in cooperation with the Postmaster-General, he had organized, a Postal Battalion for the purpose of serving our soldiers in Egypt'. Has that battalion been removed to France with our soldiers, or has a French battalion been formed? There is a good deal of doubt as to how letters are to be got to the Australians in France, and a pronouncement from the Minister would be very acceptable. 
.- Part of the Postal Battalion goes to the base at the front, and part remains with what is known as the Home Base, which at present is in England, and the Postal Corps is divided between the two. I am sorry that I am not able to tell the public at present the address of our troops .in France, but one safe way of addressing a letter just now is to give the name of the soldier, his number, his company, and his battalion, and indorse the envelope "Austraiian Expeditionary Forces."' The Department will do the rest. When the British Government inform us of the correct postal address, it will be made public. 
Whenever it is represented from the front that an increase is required, an increase is made, and I think a reinforcement is on its way now. 
.- May I remind the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, and also  Senator Maughan,  that in nearly every post-office in Victoria in which I have recently been there is displayed in a prominent place a placard containing the information just given by the Minister of Defence. For this I give credit to the PostmasterGeneral, and to him, also, credit for the fact that there are now on sale stamped post-cards, in bundles of six, for 6d., and envelopes stamped with Id. stamp for ls. Id. a dozen; and on these, also is displayed the information given on the placard. These post-cards and envelopes are printed and sold by the Government at the small profit shown by the price.   Senator MAUGHAN  (Queensland) [9.0]. - I am obliged to the honorable senator for the information that he has supplied. To-morrow I shall secure some of those envelopes, but I remind him that Victoria is not Australia - eight Victorias could be dropped into Queensland and still leave something to spare - and that there are many in our outer districts who have not the opportunity- of becoming acquainted with the provision that is made by the Department. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Postponed clause 2 and 3, Abstract, Preamble, and Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without request; report adopted. 
Motion (by  Senator Pearce)  "proposed - 
That this Bill be now read a third time. 
I wish to ascertain from the Minister representing the Attorney-General some information concerning the metal exchange which was formed at the instigation of the Prime Minister, and which has done splendid work not only for those concerned in the production of metals in Australia, but also for the Empire generally. I wish to know how the Depart1 ment of the Attorney-General keeps in touch with the transactions on the exchange - whether periodical reports of those transactions are furnished - and whether this exchange is carried on at any cost to the taxpayer. When the matter was first proposed by the AttorneyGeneral, many people, probably from interested motives, tried to make us believe that the proposed exchange would cost a lot of money, and that private enterprise should not be disturbed in its control over our metal industries ; but I consider that the formation of this exchange has been one of the greatest feats of statesmanship to the credit of any Australian statesman. The information for which I have asked will be of interest to a large section of the community, and possibly if the Minister is not able to furnish it now he may supply it on the adjournment. 
There is a metal exchange, which is registered as a company, and charges a toll on all sales, the revenue thus derived paying the cost of the exchange. All exportation must be registered by the Government. Thus the control of all contracts lies with the Government, because all purchases are made by companies outside the Commonwealth. At a later stage I shall supply the honorable senator with further information. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill votes a credit of £662,085 for the purpose of carrying on works already authorized by Parliament. It covers payments for the first two months after the 30th June next. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee : 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Schedule. 
Provision is made for post-office buildings as follows: New South Wales, £15,000; Victoria, £18,000; South Australia, £5,000; Western Australia, £20,000; Queensland, £1,000; Tasmania, £150, and the Northern Territory, £250. I strongly object to this absurd differentiation. We could spend at least £50,000 in Queensland on new post-office buildings. Hundreds of places need them urgently. I ask the Minister to explain the reasons for the differentiation. 
.- The Vice-President of the Executive Council, when replying, might also give an explanation of why such a palpable injustice is being inflicted on Tasmania. I shouldlike to know why only £150 is to be expended during the next two months upon post-office buildings in that State out of a total expenditure under this heading of £60,300. I am sure that there are many places in Tasmania in which £150 could be advantageously spent upon a single work - for example, upon necessary renewals in connexion with post-offices there. Of course, I recognise that it is the desire of the Government to curtail expenditure as far as possible, consistent with maintaining an effective service. 
A comparison has been instituted between Queensland and South Australia. We are certainly a long-suffering people in South Australia. But I wish particularly to call attention to the fact that for some months, if not years, it has been admitted that the Central Post Office in South Australia has been urgently in need of alterations and additions. At Port Adelaide, too, a new post-office has been promised for quite a long time, yet the redemption of that promise seems as far off as ever. I would like to know whether the undue delay which has already occurred is to be further prolonged ? Under this Bill it is proposed to expend the magnificent sum of £5,000 upon postoffice buildings in South Australia, notwithstanding that double that sum has been allocated to similar buildings in Queensland. If it can justly be claimed that Queensland has been slighted in this matter, what can be said of the position occupied by South Australia? 
The expenditure provided for in this Bill for the two months following the close of the current financial year is based upon the Estimates which we passed last night. Naturally we could not ask the Committee to permit us to begin the construction of new works in connexion with a two-months' Supply Bill; but I would point out that last year the sum of £70,000 was appropriated for additions, new works, and buildings in South Australia, whilst an amount of £20,000 was voted for Tasmania. In "Western Australia there is a large new post-office in course of construction, and in Sydney a new telephone exchange is being provided a little lower down the street than the General Post Office. In dealing with these matters, we have adopted a purely business system, and the requirements of post-offices are the basis of the improvements which are effected. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
.- I move - 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until 3 p.m. on a day to be fixed by  Mr. President,  which day of meeting shall be notified by  Mr. President  to each senator by telegram or letter. 
It is not considered desirable to fix a date for the re-assembling of the Senate, because in time of war, like the present, it might be desirable to call honorable senators together at any time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I wish to take advantage of this motion to say a few words in connexion with a matter to which I intended to refer this afternoon when we were dealing with the Supply Bill, had I not missed my opportunity. I wish- to dissociate myself entirely from the remarks, or most of the remarks, that were made here last night by a Ministerial supporter, and a member of the party to which I belong. I do not wish it to go out to the public, or to the section of the public that sent me here, . that I, for one moment, subscribe to the opinions expressed by  Senator Ferricks.  I would very much prefer that the honorable senator should be present to hear what I have to say, but as he sat up all night there is a very good reason why he should be unable to be present now. I do not desire that the electors who sent me here should think for a moment that I subscribe to the opinions he expressed regarding the actions of the present Prime Minister of Australia, who is not now in the Commonwealth to reply for himself. If he were here he could defend himself better, probably, than could any other member of the Federal Parliament. It seems to me remarkable that a member of a big political party should be so ignorant of the circumstances connected with the postponement of the referenda proposals as.  Senator Ferricks  showed himself to be last night. I am prepared to take my full share, not of blame, because none attaches to me in that connexion, but of responsibility for their postponement. I was a member of the party to whom the reasons for the postponement of the proposals were candidly outlined by the Prime Minister.  Senator Ferricks  is a member of the same party, and in the circumstances it is not fair that, during his absence from the Commonwealth7 the leader of the party, the leader of this country, and a man well fitted to be its political leader, should have these charges hurled at him, especially in view of the position which he is occupying to-day at the heart of the Empire. What was said by  Senator Ferricks  last night is being circulated, or, probably, in a few hours will be circulated, in Great Britain, and the Prime Minister will be taunted with the statement that he does not represent the Labour party of Australia. 

 Senator O'KEEFE. Certainly not. That is what makes the charges uttered by  Senator Ferricks  so very unfair. The medium that will so readily send to the Old Country any statement against a Labour Minister is not quite so ready to circulate statements made in defence of the Labour party. 
He was over generous in that statement. 
That is very likely. 
The Prime Minister at the present time occupies a unique position at the heart of the Empire. His name is in the mouths of more of the public men and people of Great Britain than that of any other British statesmen. He is, I think rightly, in considerable favour with practically the whole of the English-speakingpeople. 
He has not asked them to go with him. He cannot help it if they follow him up.  Mr. Hughes  respects the aristocracy of brains rather than the aristocracy of birth, and those who follow him up must- also respect the aristocracy of brains, of which he is a brilliant example. It is not a fair thing that an honorable member, sitting behind the Government, should make such statements as those which were made by  Senator Ferricks  last night, when it is known that the press is always ready to print under headlines anything that may be saidto the detriment of a Labour Minister. We know that these statements will be transmitted by cable to the place where  Mr. Hughes  is to-day, with the object, not only of causing him annoyance, but of putting him in a very false position. I am entitled to my opinion, as  Senator Ferricks  is entitled to his, and I assert that  Mr. Hughes  carries the approval and cordial support, not merely of a majority, but of 99 per cent. of Labour sympathizers in Australia.  His  statesmanship, and the work he has done as Prime Minister, and did for some time before he reached that position, entitle him to a splendid place in the esteem of all Labour sympathizers in the Commonwealth. I am not satisfied that the statements made by  Senator Ferricks  should go forward to the people of Great Britain, or to the people of Australia, as expressing the views of the great majority of Labourites in this Commonwealth. When the time comes for testing the feeling of the people  Senator Ferricks  will find that he is wrong, and that  Mr. Hughes  is absolutely without blame for the action he took in connexion with the referenda proposals. The responsibility for their abandonment for the time is shared equallyby every member of this Parliament sitting behind the Government today. The almost unanimous opinion of the party was at the time behind the action proposed by  Mr. Hughes,  and to-day in similar circumstances that action would meet with the same approval. The Prime Minister has done a great deal in the Old Country in connexion with matters of vital importance to Australia.  His  work has proved him to be a man of commanding ability, and Australia owes a great deal to him at this particular time. I thought it was only fair to myself, as a member of the party to which  Senator Ferricks  also belongs, to say that I do not subscribe to the opinion he expressed of the action of  Mr. Hughes.  For the past sixteen years, since the establishment of the Federal Parliament, I have been in close association with  Mr. Hughes.  I know the work he has done for the Labour party in season and out of season, and in Parliament and out of Parliament, not only when what he did had thrown upon it the light of press criticism, but when he worked for the party in a quieter way. With sixteen years' experience of the magnificent work done by  Mr. Hughes,  I say that it ill becomes any member of the Labour party in Australia, whilst ostensibly supporting the Prime Minister, to give utterance to the statements which  Senator Ferricks  made last night concerning that gentleman. 
.- I have been glad to listen to the remarks which have fallen from my honorable colleague,  Senator O'Keefe.  There is a great tendency to condemn men who make their mark in public life. Although  Mr. Hughes,  on one or two very rare occasions, may have made statements to which I, and other members of the rank and file of the Labour party, could not entirely agree, I say that he stands,  par excellence,  the best man that Labour ever produced in the Commonwealth, and I think that he will maintain that high position as time goes on. It is unnecessary for any of us to speak for  Mr. Hughes,  who can so well speak for himself. 
That is so. He has been stabbed in the back. Some one has given us the expression, " My country, right or wrong;" and I say my leader, right or wrong. I am a supporter and upholder of the views held by  Mr. Hughes.  I wish to make my position clear in connexion with some remarks which fell from  Senator Ferricks. 
In connexion with the abandonment of the referenda proposals, the honorable senator mentioned the names of certain members of the Victorian Labour party who voted, according to him, in the right direction on that question. He mentioned the names of Senators Findley, McKissock, and myself as members of the party who, at the Caucus meeting, voted that the Referenda Bills should be persisted with and submitted to the people. I am not going to tell the Houseor the country how I voted on that occasion, because I look upon anything that takes place in our party meetings as secret and sacred. I do not desire that  Senator Ferricks  should speak for my attitude at party meetings in connexion with the abandonment of the referenda proposals. I have no desire to canvass what was done in the past; but as one of the spokesmen of some of the Labour people in Victoria, I should like to ask the Government and their supporters to consider whether we should not reconsider the decision arrived atlast November, and even at this eleventh hour put before the people our proposals for the alteration of the Constitution. Perhaps the time is not opportune, but we know that another election will be coining on in a comparatively short time, and we know that the people of this Commonwealth are suffering from the high cost of living. Whether they be right or not, many of them believe that if the Constitution were altered in accordance with the referenda proposals, and if they had been given effect, as they ought to have been, by the State Governments, they would he assisted to meet their sufferings due to the high cost of living. I have done my duty in the matter, and I ask the Government whether they do not think that we should even now submit to the people " by referendum " proposals for the alteration of the Constitution  1  The Leader of the Opposition in another place urged a referendum on the question of conscription. If it be right to have a referendum on the conscription of men, it isalso right to have a referendum on the prices of food. ' I ask the Government to take my suggestion into consideration, and have it discussed in the Cabinet and before the party. 
Parliament will be summoned together again in accordance with the motion which has been passed, on a date that is not now fixed, but of which honorable senators will be advised by the  President,  and honorable members in another place by the  Speaker.  I take this opportunity of directing the attention of the Government to the fact that this session, which commenced in 1914, has not yet finished. It has been the practice hitherto to issue the Acts passed by this Parliament in sessional volumes. We have sessional volumes up to 1913. No sessional volumehas been issued since that year. Parliament has been sitting in 1914-1915- 1916, and we are now about to adjourn once more for an indefinite period. There has been issued what might be called a stop-gap or temporary volume of the Acts passedduring this unfinished session, but very few copies have been published, andthese are available only within the four walls of Parliament House. They are not available outside. They are not available in the Courts of the various States, or to the members of the law societies of the various States. Every one is supposed to know the law, and not even the lawyers, Courts, or Judges charged with its administration are given a reasonable opportunity to know what it is. Some time ago I was informed by the Department that the volume would be issued probably within a month or so. I hope the Minister will consider the urgency of the matter. Gentlemen occupying the highest judicial positions have informed me that they have not seen nor have they available on their shelves, nor can they obtain, the Acts passed by this Parliament in connexion with which they are called upon to adjudicate. It is possible when a case comes on to get a printer's copy of an individual Act, but that is not satisfactory. Those who have to administer the law, and those whose duty it is to see to its proper observance, should be provided with proper copies of the Acts. I do not blame the Government, but hope that during the adjournment they will see that all the Acts passed are bound and supplied to the various authorities, who have heretofore generally received them sessionally. All the regulations should also be made as public as possible, the Post Office and other Commonwealth instrumentalities being used for their circulation amongst persons directly affected by them. The PostmasterGeneral's Department could be utilized for the sale of the regulations, the price of which is plainly marked on them. Wo have passed a number of measures of supreme importance to the trading community, who should have the earliest and fullest opportunity of obtaining copies of all the Acts and the regulations pertaining to them. 
I thought it was issued by a private person for personal profit. In these special circumstances we should not wait until the session ends before issuing copies of the Acts. If necessary the book could be bound in a different colour to indicate that it was not a complete sessional volume. I was interested in the remarks of  Senator O'Keefe  and  Senator Blakey.  I had not an opportunity to hear  Senator Ferricks,  but it struck me that  Senator Blakey  thought he was still in caucus when speaking here to-night, or perhaps  Senator Ferricks,  whose statements  Senator Blakey  was traversing, forgot last night that he was not in caucus. I thought that  Senator Blakey  let fall a few little driblets of information which he might not have uttered outside that body, for which I know he entertains the greatest respect. 
 The Acts are being printed, not in sessional volumes but for each year. A volume containing the Statutes for 1914 and 1915 is being printed, and will be issued in the course of a few days. Everything  Senator Keating  said to-night about the regulations he said a few nights ago, and  Senator Gardiner  then promised to bring his representations under the notice of the Attorney-General . 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Minister of Defence whether, in view of the fact that the men who compose the Miners' Battalion, now located at the Seymour Camp, have been kept there for a period of eight weeks, notwithstanding a statement previously made that they would remain there for only ten days, at the end of which time they would be embarked for the front; and, seeing also that they have no definite expectation of sailing soon, he will take into consideration the desirableness of returning these men to camps adjacent to their own homes, in order that they may have the opportunity of seeing their relatives as frequently as possible prior to embarkation? 
I ask the honorable senator to give notice of the question. I would like to add that the statement he made was not a fact. 
If I permitted  Senator Watson  to make a statement, it was remiss of me, because I have frequently ruled that questions must be asked simply to obtain information, and must contain no argument, or statement, or newspaper excerpt. 
Is it true, as stated in the press, that the Government contemplate issuing 5s. notes? 
Yes. 
Is it a fact that Dalgety and Company, acting as agents for the Commonwealth Government forthe purchase of wolfram and molybdenite, receive a commission of £50 per ton? If it is not correct, will the Minister of Defence inform the Senate, at the earliest convenient date, what rates of commission that and other firms acting in a similar capacity receive from the Government? 
The statement is not correct. Full information on the subject will be placed before honorable senators at an early date. 
Have allthe States sent in nominations both of employers and employees for membership of the Industrial Commission which is about to proceed to America? If so, when will the selection be made and a determination come to as to sending the Commission away? 
All the nominations are in, and the selection will be made at an early date. The Government have had other important business to transact during the past few days. 
What is the intention of the Government in regard to the payment of the extra 6d. per bushel for wheat already in the Wheat Pool, particularly in regard to Western Australia, in view of certain action taken there by the State Government? 
I hope to make a definite, and I trust very pleasing, statement within the next few days. 
As an honorable gentleman in South Australia stated at Pinnaroo that there would be no difficulty in obtaining vessels to transmit wheat to Great Britain, will the Assistant Minister state if that has been so in the past, and is it so to-day? 
If the honorable senator will give me definite information of any available ship that we missed, I shall be thankful to him, and try to correct the error. 
Is there any objection to laying on the table of the Senate a copy of the instructions recently issued through the censors to the press prohibiting the publication of comments on the question of compulsory military service? If the Government are not disposed to lay the information on the table of the Senate, will they make it available confidentially to honorable senators? 
I can imagine no reason why a copy of the instructions should not be laid on the table of the Senate. The matter will, however, receive consideration. 
Has any portion of the Prime Minister's speeches been censored? If so, has the Prime Minister lodged any protest, and with what result ? Has any action been taken to censure the censors? 
No such question is asked of candidates applying for positions as officers. No officer now gets promotion without merit. All candidates have to go through the school before they secure promotion. 
No. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister of External Affairs aware that men who were summoned on the jury in connexion with the recent Arbitration Court case at Port Darwin were asked by opposing counsel if they were members of the A.W.U., and in that event were told to stand down? 
I am not aware that such is the case, but an inquiry will be instituted. 
Is the Assistant Minister aware that throughout Australia very great inconvenience has been caused by the difficulties arising from the existence of Federal and State rolls, and, if so, will he lay on the table of the Senate the papers relating to any proceedings that have been taken with regard to this question, so that honorable senators may know the present position ? 
I shall have pleasure in laying the papers on the table, and I would like to add that considerable progress has been made in the direction referred to. I am hopeful that within a few months at least four of the States will be co-operating with the Commonwealth to secure uniformity in electoral rolls in Australia 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister of Some Affairs if, in view of the importance of the matter, the evidence now being given before the Royal Commission inquiring into affairs at Canberra is being reported, and, if not, will he see that a note is taken, so that honorable senators later on may have an opportunity of perusing it? 
The matter will be looked into, and arrangements made for honorable senators to have an opportunity of perusing the evidence. I cannot understand that such a Commission should sit without the evidence being reported. 
Will the Leader of the Government see that an arrangement is made for some other Minister to administer the Postal Department while  Mr. Webster,  the Postmaster-General, is conductingthis inquiry into the Department of Home Affairs ? 
No. 
In view of the state of business on the notice-paper, and as I understand that the Government require a little time to finalize the arrangement of business to be brought before this Chamber, it is desirable that the sitting of the Senate should be suspended for a brief period. I therefore suspend the sitting until ten minutes past 4 o'clock. 

 Sitting suspended from3.36 to3.50 p.m. 

-[3.50].- When I vacated the chair earlier in the sitting I was informed that certain business that had to be transacted would not be ready until later than this. Since then I was made aware that the business was ready, and as I desired that any statement to be made before both Houses should be made simultaneously, I took the opportunity of ringing the bells earlier than I had originally announced. 
I ask leave to make a statement. 
Leave granted. 
In view of certain urgent and grave communications from the War Council of Great Britain, and of the present state of the war, and the duty of Australia in regard thereto, and as a result of long and earnest deliberation, the Government have arrived at the conclusion that the voluntary system of recruiting cannot be relied upon to supply that steady stream of reinforcements necessary to maintain the Australian Expeditionary Forces at their full strength. 
As the Government are very strongly of the opinion that it is the plain duty of 
Australia to do this, and as they believe that their opinion is one which is held by the country generally, they have formulated a policy which they believe to be at once adequate to meet the gravity of our circumstances and compatible with the principles of democratic government under which it is our privilege to live. 
The Prime Minister intends to-morrow to lay before members of both Houses the position as he knows it to be, and as set out in the recent secret communications from the Army Council of Great Britain; but it is due to the public that they should be told how imperative and urgent the demand for men is. The number of reinforcements required for next month is 33,500, and subsequently 16,500 a month. The number of recruits for June was 6,375, July 6,170, and up to 23rd August 4,144, or a total of 16,689. The most recent list for eleven days shows the number of casualties to be 6,743. These figures speak for themselves. 
They show that the position withwhich the Government confronts the Parliament and the people is that, while it is our clear duty to keep the number of our Forces up to their full strength, the stream of recruits under the voluntary system has fallen to less than one-third of what is necessary. 
The great offensive, in which our troops have covered themselves with glory, has cost a fearful price, yet it is, and must be, pressed forward with implacable resolution. To falter now is to make the great sacrifice of lives of no avail; to enable the enemy to recover himself, and, if not to defeat us, to prolong the struggle indefinitely, and thus rob the world of all hope of a lasting peace. The sure road, the speedy road, the only road, to victory is to press on. Now is the psychological moment when every ounce of effort is called for. 
To the principle of compulsion for military training and service the country has long been committed. But a clear line has been drawn between compulsory service within the Commonwealth and for service overseas. For the first we relied entirely upon compulsion; for the latter upon voluntaryism. Until recently voluntary recruiting proved sufficient to meet the demands made upon us, but latterly 
It has quite failed to do so. This failure, however, does notrelease us from our obligation tothe Empire, to its Allies, and to the Commonwealth, whose fortunes rise or fall with the ebb and flow of this dreadful war. For it is literally true that defeat in this war sounds the death knell of all our hopes and aspirations, and robs as at one stroke of all the privileges and liberties that make our lives worth living. Though voluntaryism fails, the country must not fail.It dare not ; its honour and its safety are alike at stake. 
But this is a country where the people rule, and in this crisis - in which their future is concerned - their voice must be heard. The will ofthe nation must be ascertained. Autocracy forces its decrees upon the people; Democracy ascertains, and then carries out, the wishes of the people. In these circumstances the Government consider there is but one course to pursue, namely, to ask the electors for their authority to make up the deficiency by compulsion. 
Set out briefly, the policy of the Government is to take a referendum of the people at the earliest possible moment upon the question whether they approve of compulsory oversea service to the extent necessary to keep our Expeditionary Forces at their full strength. If the majority of the people approve, compulsion will be applied to the extent that voluntaryism fails. Otherwise it will not. 
I now make an earnest appeal to every recruiting agency and centre to use their every effort to encourage voluntary recruiting, and to the men of fighting age to enlist in the defence of their country. If volunteers respond in sufficient numbers there will be no need for compulsion. But to the extent that voluntary recruiting fails to supply the numbers necessary the Government will use the authority of the people, if given, to call to the colours, until the supply is exhausted, single men without dependants. It is not intended, until the supply of single men without dependants is exhausted, to apply compulsion to married men, youths under twentyone, to single men with dependants, or to the remaining sons of families in which one or more of the members have, already volunteered. 
As the necessity for more men is not only imperative, but urgent, and in order that the approval of the people, if given, should not be abortive, and, coming too late, leave our soldiers at the front without support of an adequate supply of trained reinforcements, the Government have decided that if within one month the appeal for volunteers does not bring in a sufficient number of recruits, they will issue a proclamation under the Defence Act and call up for purposes of training the number of single men without dependants necessary to make good the deficiency. I hope that the appeal which I now make to the patriotism of Australian manhood will make such proclamation unnecessary. 
Unless and until the, people of Australia approve of extending the compulsory provision of the Defence Act to service overseas, no man will be sent away against his will. 

 Sir, we are passing through the greatest crisis in our history. Our national existence, our liberties, are at stake. There rests upon every man an obligation to do his duty in the spirit that befits free men. The Government asks men to make a great sacrifice; it asks them to risk their lives in order to save their country.  Sir, I  believe that they are prepared to make this sacrifice. Bat the country must in its turn prove itself worthy of such men. There must be, as far as humanly possible, equality of sacrifice. Wealth has its duties; it owes all it has to the State, and must be prepared, if necessary, to sacrifice that all to the State. Many wealthy men have responded nobly to the call of duty; others have not. But they cannot be allowed thus to evade their responsibilities. 
All other considerations must be swept aside; one great principle must now govern our every action. Whatever is necessary for the salvation of the country must be done; and since we are calling upon men to sacrifice their lives, we ought not, and shall not, hesitate to compel men to sacrifice their wealth. 
The secret session of both Houses of which I have spoken will commence at 5 p.m. to-morrow in the Senate Club Room. I ask leave to continue my remarks on the next day of sitting. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
There was one announcement made by the Minister of Defence to which I should like to refer. He intimated the desire of the Government that there should be a secret session of members of both Houses of this Parliament to-morrow afternoon. I wish to ask honorable senators to regard it and accept it as an obligation that after that secret conference is over there shall be no reference made to it, good, bad, or indifferent, by any one present at it. I feel compelled to make this request because, on a previous occasion, after such a gathering, statements were made in this chamber and elsewhere which, whilst they in no sense disclosed what transpired at the secret session, constituted a suggestion that the information imparted led only to one conclusion. That may have been due only to thoughtlessness. 
Order!  Senator Millen  is, under cover of the motion for the adjournment of the Senate, proceeding to discuss a statement made by the Minister of Defence which has not yet been completed, and which there will be ample opportunity to discuss on Friday next. Its discussion has become a part of the business of the Senate set down -for another day. It will appear on the businesspaper of the Senate, and our Standing Orders are emphatic that no honorable senator may anticipate the discussion of business on the paper. As soon as I understood the direction in which the honorable senator desired to proceed, I stopped him. I rule that he will be out of order in proceeding on those lines. 
 If no other honorable senator desires to speak, I have only to say that, notwithstanding the fact that  Senator Milieu's  remarks, according to the Standing Orders, were disorderly, I am thoroughly in accord with them. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
On the last sitting day I asked a question relative to the placing upon the table of the instructions recently issued to the press through the censors. The Vice-President of the Executive Council replied on behalf of the Minister of Defence,and said he could conceive of no objection to such a course being followed. The Leader ofthe Government in the Senateis now present, and perhaps he is in a positionto deal with the question. 
These instructions are, of course, confidential, but honorable senators can see them at any time. 
At the Barracks. 
I ask the Minister of Defence whether the Government have ascertained the number of young men who left the Commonwealth in a hurry after the commencement of the war? They took saloon passages. 
Order ! The honorable senator is making statements, and not asking a question. 
The honorable senator has given me somewhat of a poser. We should first of all have to discover whether the young men referred to left in a hurry or not. I may say that for some considerable time past no person of military age could leave the Commonwealth without a passport. 
I could not give any information as to the number who left the Commonwealth before the regulations requiring passports were brought into  force. 
 I do not know whetherI am strictly in order at this stage in drawing attention to a certain matter, but, if not, you, sir, must accept my apologies in advance. There  is  in another chamber certain accommodation, presumablyreserved for honorable senators,  and  Ishould like to know whether steps can be taken to insure that that accommodation shall be so reserved. Members of the public are shown  into  the gallery supposed to be reserved for honorable senators, and when honorable senators wish to attend to listen to debates of the other Chamber they are frequently in the unpleasant  position of having to ask an attendant to make room for them, and this may involve the expulsion from the gallery of private citizens, who may be there quite innocently. The position should be cleared up, and we should know whether there are seats in the House ofRepresentatives reserved exclusively for honorable senators or not. 
The matter to which  Senator Millen  has referred has not escaped my attention, nor is it now brought up for the first time. It has been a matter of serious comment amongst honorable senators during almost the whole of the time I have been a member of the Senate. Some two years ago I took occasion, in accordance with what I. believed to be the opinion of honorable senators at the time, and upon representations made by some honorable senators, to interview  Mr. Speaker  with regard to the matter. He promised then that seats would be reserved exclusively for the use of members of the Senate. I found, and  Mr. Speaker  has also found, that honorable senators are themselves the worst offenders, because they have brought along their friends and put them in seats reserved for honorable senators. They should refrain from doing that, because, by putting their friends into those seats, they may bedepriving other members of the Senate of an opportunity to use those seats and to listen to debates in another place. The seats are reserved for honorable senators, and not for the friends of honorable senators, and if that interpretation were strictly adhered to, a considerable amount of trouble would be avoided. In any case, I shall again take occasion to interview  Mr. Speaker  on the subject, and see whether an arrangement cannot be made by which even the friends of honorable senators shall be excluded from the senators' gallery. Of course, we have no control over the arrangements made in another place except by making representations through  Mr. Speaker. 
.- Will you also consult  Mr. Speaker  at the same time on the necessity of some control of the front of Parliament House to prevent the approach of people taking part in such a demonstrationas occurred last night? 
asked the Minister of Defence,  upon notice- 
Is there an agreement with any of the shipping companies to provide food for our soldiers returning to Australia, at the following rates: - 
Privates,1s. 3d. per diem. 
N.C.O.'s, 2s. l1d. per diem. 
C.O.'s, 6s. 3d. per diem? 
If so, why is there sucha disparity between privates and officers? 
The answers are - 
No agreement exists with any shipping companies for the rates quoted to be paid. Agreements exist for the following rates to be paid: - Troops - In refrigerated ships,1s.10d. per head per diem. In unrefrigerated ships, or refrigerated ships carrying less than 120 men. 2s.6d. per head per diem. Warrant officers and sergeants, 3s. 3d. per head perdiem; officers, 6s. per head per diem. 
In the ease of officers, the rate paid for victualling includes provision of cabin bedding, use ofmess utensils, attendance, &amp;c. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Whether the Government will consider the advisability of so shaping the scope of inquiry of the Industrial Commission about to visit the United States as to enable a special investigation to be made into industrial conditions in the sub-tropical portion of that country, particularly in regard to the condition of European labour in that area? 
The matter will receive consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister of External Affairs,  upon notice - 
Will he lay upon the table of the Senate the evidence and finding of the inquiry recently held at Port Darwin into the dispute between  Dr. Jensen  and  Dr. Gilruth? 
The answer is - 
The report of theRoyal Commissioner will be laid upon the table. A copy of the evidence will be laid on the Library table as soon as it is available. 
asked the Minister of Defence,  upon notice - 
Will the Government consider the advisability of getting all the funds subscribed by the public to Red Cross Societies and other organizations for the relief of soldiers placed under the management of one central body, which shall be responsible to and under the control of the Federal Government? 
The answer is- 
This matter is at present engaging the attention of the Federal Government. The matter has been the subject of communication with the State Governments with a view to common action. 
asked the Minister of 
Defence,  upon notice - 
Who are the censors appointed by the Government for the State of Tasmania, and what salary do they receive? 
What clerical assistance is provided, and what is the cost of same? 
Does any Tasmanian censor occupy a military position in addition; and, if so, what salary for same is paid in each case? 
The answers are - 
Lieut.-Colonel G.E. Harrap is censor at Launceston, at a salary of £366 13s. 4d. per annum. Colonel T. M. Evans is senior assistant censor at Hobart, at a salary of £333 6s. 8d. per annum. When necessary, Captain C. M. Chambers is employed as a relieving officer, and is paid for the time actually spent in censorship duties at the rate of £266 13s. 4d. per annum. 
One clerk is employed by the censor at Launceston, and is paid a salary of £156 per annum. 
No officer censorship staff, Tasmania, holds any additional military position except the censor, Launceston (Lieut.-Colonel Harrap), who is a member of the District Selection Committee, and who draws pay for rank whilst engaged on that duty, averaging two days per month, but does not draw censor pay for same period. 
The answers are - 
The information will be furnished at an early date. 
From 6s. 5d. to 6s. 9d. 
Four hundred and fifty, with provision for extension. 
asked the Minister of Defence,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Miners' Battalion, now situated at Seymour Camp,has been detained there for eight weeks, contrary to expectations ? 
If so, pending their embarkation, will he consider the advisability of allowing them to return to camps adjacent to their homes to complete their training, and thus insure a minimum of sacrifice? 
The answers are - 
The mining men concentrated at Seymour are there for training as reinforcements. In some instances men have been there for over eight weeks, but this was not contrary to expectations. 
The circumstances are not considered such as to warrant departure from established practice, which requires final home leave to be taken before transfer to another military district for training and embarkation. Seymour is the only camp where arrangements for training Tunnelling Company Reinforcements exists, and, the total number of men to be trained being small, it is not intended to provide for training in other camps as well. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Will he take steps to endeavour to bring about some system of uniformity between the States and the Commonwealth as regards the schedules used in connexion with the Income Tax Acts and Land Tax Acts? 
Consideration has already been given to this matter, and a conference between State and Commonwealth officers is to be heldas soon as it can be arranged. 
asked the Minister of Defence;  uponnotice - 
Who are the censors at Port Darwin? 
Have letters coming from other parts of. Australia been opened by them? 
Is it customary to open letters coming from one State of the Commonwealth to another? 
The answers are - 
H. E. Carey, Government Secretary, Censor, and R. J. Evans, Superintendent of Railways, Assistant Censor, have been attending to censorships duties, but from to-day these have been taken over by Lieutenant Barker. 
It is possible that Inter-State letters have been opened at the discretion of the censor. 
No. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister of Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
When will the South Australian and West Australian ends of the Trans-Australian railway be linked up? 
It is anticipated about April of next year; actual date of linking up dependent upon regular supplies of material, which have been affected by war conditions, and subject to work not being delayed by industrial disputes. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
The original cost of the motor cars used in clearing the postal pillar-boxes in and around the city of Brisbane? 
The cost of repairs for the past two years? 
The cost of relief cars, during repairs, for the past two years? 
The total cost of the service during the past two years? 
Inquiries are being made, and a reply will be furnished as early as possible. 
asked the Minister of Defence,  upon notice - 
Will he consider the advisability of placing before the Cabinet the necessity of legislating against trading in war medals and other decorations, in order to prevent imposition? 
The answer is- 
Section 42a of the War Precautions Regulations reads as follows: - " 42a. ( 1 ) If a person shall, without the written authority of the Minister, or of some person authorized by him in that behalf, sell, barter, exchange, trade in, give away, or in any manner whatsoever dispose of or deal in any uniform of the Defence Force, or any badge, accoutrement or equipment, or regimental or other distinctive mark, or any colorable imitation of such uniform, badge, accoutrement or equipment, or regimental or other distinctive mark, he shall be guilty of an offence against the Act. 
Any person who offers, or exposes for sale, any article as aforesaid, shall be guilty of an offence against the Act." 
It is considered that war medals and other military decorations are covered by this regulation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister of Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
Whether it is the intention of the Government to stop all expenditure at the Federal Capital Site and Territory till the end of the war? 
Matters have progressed so far that it would not be in the interests of economy to stop all expenditure, but what shall be done with the Federal Capital Territory is engaging the attention of the Government. 
asked the Minister of Defence,  upon notice - 
What action has been taken to prevent recruiting sergeants from dealing with party politics in their addresses? 
Instructions have been issued to commandants to inform recruiting sergeants that they are not to make any reference to party politics at recruiting meetings. The Secretary of the State War Council in each State was instructed to warn all recruiting sergeants that they were not to deal with the question of conscription. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What steps does the Government intend to take so as to guard against a scarcity of sugar, owing to the strike of cane-growers and miller? now in operation in Queensland? 
It is impracticable to supply the information asked for. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister of Externals Affairs,  upon notice - 
How much money has been expendedby the Department of External Affairs in connexion with the development of oil fields in Papua? 
How many men are at present employed in connexion with this work? 
What quantity of oil has been obtained? 
What is the present stage of the development of the industry? 
The answers are - 
£49,331 up to 30th June, 1916. 
About eighteen whites and 130 natives. 
Small quantities only - about 500 gallons. It might have been possible to secure somewhat larger yields from the particular bores whence this was obtained, but the immediate purpose was not so much to procure oil as to obtain knowledge of the strata, &amp;c. 
Prospecting operations are being carried on, and the results obtained warrant further sinking. The work for a long time must be merely experimental, as there is a very large area to be surveyed, most of which is covered by dense tropical scrub. The frequent rains experienced in this part of the Territory interfere very seriously with developmental work. In one recent month rain fell on twenty-four days, totalling nearly 24½ inches. Malaria has also been very prevalent on the field, and has been the cause of great interference with the work. Owing to the fact that the oil industry is unknown in Australia, there has been much difficulty in securing and retaining drillers with the necessary oil experience. The Department has had to introduce some of these men from the American fields. It is considered that it is necessary for the Government to obtain the fullest knowledge regarding the country before committing itself to an expenditure of the hundreds of thousands of pounds necessary to equip a producing field. 
The quality of the oil that has been received from the field has been declared by the Federal Analyst to be of the highest standard. 
I desire to withdraw notice of motion No. 1 for a return as to lighthouse-keepers. 
There is an easy way out of the difficulty for  Senator Guthrie.  All that he has to do is to give fresh notice of the motion and subsequently to move it. But the motion now on the business-paper is the property of  Senator Needham  until it has been moved. Only then would it become the property of the Senate, and until then it is the prerogative of  Senator Needham  to do what he chooses with it. 
In order that the statement I made on Wed nesday as to the policy of the Ministry in regard to the prosecution of the war may be brought formally before the Senate and become the subject of debate, I lay a copy of it upon the table, and move - 
That the paper be printed. 
There is room, of course, for a considerable difference of opinion as to how the present emergency should be met, but I think there can be room for little or no difference of opinion as to the desirableness of that emergency being met. 
And the necessity of meeting it. The public, with the tacit consent of Parliament, and, I believe, with the approval of an overwhelming majority of the people of Australia, have, from time to time, offered additional units of troops to Great Britain in the prosecution of this war. I have never seen a single protest against those troops being offered. Until the receipt of the recent cable from the Army Council, the Government of the United Kingdom had never, on any occasion, asked for a single soldier to be sent from Australia. . It is also to be noted that in their request the Army Council do not ask us to add a single additional unit to those which this country has voluntarily placed in the field. They have never asked us for military assistance. But we havegiven certain military assistance. They do not now ask us to increase that assistance. The sum and substance of their cable is that, as we have placed certain military units in the field, those units should be kept up to their full strength. That is the outstanding fact of the present situation. The Army Council cable makes a definite request that 32,500 men shall be made available during the month of September, and later on I shall show that the Commonwealth is able to comply with that request, as it is also able to comply with the subsequent request for an increase of the monthly reinforcements from 12,500 to 16,500 for a sufficient length of time to enable us to take other measures to see that those numbers are maintained in the future. I say that, because it seems to me that the strongest charge made against the Government proposal is that it does not meet the situation, that it wastes time, and the inference to be drawn from such criticism as has been levelled at it is that there will be a period during which Australia will not be equal to the task of keeping her troops in the field up to strength. I hope to show, before I have concluded, that that is not the case, that under the Government proposal there will be a guarantee that we shall be able to keep the units in the field up to their full strength, and that that proposal will meet the request of the Army Council, and will involve no loss of time. But, in addition, it does recognise - and I do not doubt that this is unpalatable in certain quarters - that Australia is a Democracy, and that the people have a right to be consulted before any vital alteration is made in an existing policy which they have approved, and which has been placed upon the statute-book. If anybody concedes that, then it is obvious that there are only two ways by which the people can be consulted in the present crisis. The two alternatives presented are a general election, either of one House or of both Houses, and a referendum. The obligation, therefore, is laid upon those who oppose the Government scheme either to say that they believe this step should be taken without the authority of the people, that men should be sent overseas without their consent, and by force of law, or, if they agree that the people should be consulted, to lose any logical right to oppose the Government scheme. If they do not admit that the people should be consulted, any alternative that they can bring forward will cause a greater loss of time than will the Government proposal. It is obvious that if we proceeded by way of a Bill to alter the Defence Act to make the soldiers called up under it available for service overseas, it would be the subject of a fierce debate in either House. It is fairly obvious that it would lead to at least an election of the House of Representatives, and possibly to an election of both Houses. If the latter, it would mean a delay of at least four or five months or longer, in order to comply with the conditions of the Constitution with regard to a double dissolution. 
I shall not pit my legal knowledge against that of the honorable senator, but he will find that if the people indorse the proposal through the referendum, the Government and Parliament will be prepared to take any risk of illegality. 
We will discuss that when we discuss the Bill. In debating the principle of the Government proposition, I do not want to be led into side issues as to whether it is legal or illegal, or contains everything that it should or should not contain. 
Will the honorable senator consider what he would have to do? He would have to bring in an amendment of the Defence Act, and pass it through the House of Representatives. Unless he is politically blind he must see that that could not be done in a few weeks. It would then have to pass this Chamber, and if the honorable senator talked to a few members of the Senate he would find that it would not have a very speedy passage here. It might be shipwrecked. 
If there are members in either House prepared to stand between this Parliament and the people, and to refuse to allow the question to go to the people, their blood will be upon their own head. I should not like to stand in their shoes at the first election thereafter at which they are candidates. But, to take up the position of refusing to allow the people to vote on this question is quite a different proposition from opposing a Bill which was never considered at the last election. I heard of no candidate on that occasion who told the electors that, if returned, he would be prepared to amend the Defence Act to make soldiers available for overseas service. 
That is so, and, therefore, a member in that position would be perfectly justified in taking whatever action he thought fit, and neither party could complain of his action, because such a Bill is on neither platform. Neither party put it before the electors, and, therefore, members of both are perfectly free to use any legislative machinery within our Standing Orders to prevent its passage. The journals outside which speak for  Senator Shannon  say there is a majority in the country  for conscription, and that, therefore, honorable members should bow to the' will of that majority, but they destroy their own argument by saying that time may be lost because the referendum may be defeated. The two things are not compatible. If there is a majority of the people for compulsion the referendum will be carried; if not, it will be lost. But if there is not a majority of the people in favour of this course then this Parliament has no right to carry that law. The position in detail is as follows: - The Army Council requests that we shall provide 32,500 troops in September, and 16,500 for each subsequent month. The number- for September is to be partly made up from the 20,000 in the divisions training in England. We have provided five divisions; four are in Prance at the front, and one is in England not yet fully trained. There is also a Light Horse Division in Egypt and a number of details, which we will leave out of consideration because they are to be retained in Egypt. It is proposed by the Army Council to make up any deficiency of reinforcements by utilizing the troops from the division in England, which is technically the Third Division, but which, for convenience, I will call ' the Fifth, because it was the last formed, and to replace those in that division by men coming forward from Australia. We have then to find 32,500 men in September, 16,500 in October, November, and December respectively, or a total of 82,000 troops to the end of the year. In J  January  February, and March we shall have to provide at the same rate, 49,500, or a total from now to the end of March, 1917, of 131,500. Those who have been talking about delay apparently do not know that we have a large number of troops already in training, some of whom have almost completed their training, and are embarking from week to week. Their numbers, exclusive of the four divisions in France, and the Light Horse Division and details in Egypt, are as follows: - Number in camp in Australia, 43,512; number in camp in England, 44,511 ; on the water, 15,000; total, 103,023. Deduct Fifth Division- in England, 20,000, and estimated wastage, 10,000, this leaves a net total of 73,023 available for reinforcements. These figures were compiled two days ago, and represent the number then available, assuming that not a single soldier enlisted afterwards. We had then available, as I have shown, 73,023 men more or less trained. 
We have estimated the number of men who will probably, from various causes, drop out before they actually enter the firing line. It is obvious that recruiting will not stop. It is fairly safe to say that it will increase. Assuming that it did stop altogether, I have shown that, with the Third Division temporarily utilized, we can comply with the request of the Army Council up till and beyond the end of December. The Third Division, in any case, would probably not take the field this summer, because it was the last division raised. It was raised in Australia, whereas the other two divisions were raised in Egypt. 
Yes; because, as I have said, it was the last division raised. We promised the Army Council that we would form two divisions from the troops in Egypt, and the other, or Third - I will now call it the  Fifth  - Division, was formed here. It was sent to Egypt, and afterwards was transferred from Egypt to England. It has not been long in England, and the men comprising it have not yet completed their base training. Therefore, it is extremely improbable that, in any circumstances, it would have gone into the field this summer at all. Now it is proposed by the Army Council that that division, so far as the reinforcements are concerned, shall be added temporarily to the pool in England, and that, in view of the enormous drain that has taken place owing to the heavy casualties recently, reinforcements shall be taken from it as well as from the other 23,000 reinforcements already in England. The requirements for this month under the Army Council's request are 32,500, and then 16,500 per month right on. It has been laid down hitherto that all troops must have three months' training in Australia before embarkation. It is proposed to continue this course; but, if the necessity arises, there is no reason why troops should not be sent away with two months' training in Australia, mud be allowed to complete their training on arrival in England. This has already been done in many cases in order to fit in with the shipping arrangements.. 
Certainly not. The men complete their training in England. Obviously, it is not advisable to take men straight off the transports and send them to the front, because a voyage on a transport takes from eight to ten weeks, and it is found that they require further training after disembarkation. Under the terms of the cable from the Army Council of 2Sth August, the Fifth Division now in England will be drawn upon to make up any deficiency in reinforcements pending the arrival of increased numbers from Australia, which, under the modified scheme - this is an important point - will commence to arrive in January and February, if the appeal of the Government is responded to, as I believe will be the case. Wow let me set out in detail the demand by the Army Council, and show how this estimate we have of numbers will affect the pool in England month by month. Including the Fifth Division, there are 44,500 reinforcements now in England, and I assume that only 7,000 reinforcements now on the water will arrive during this month. As a matter of fact, this is a very conservative estimate. The number will probably be nearer 10,000 or 12,000 ; but we have put the number at the lowest possible figure. Now, as I have shown, there will be 51,500 available as reinforcements from the pool, and the demand for September will be 32,500. These will not be taken on the first of the month, but will be spread over the whole month as the casualties occur. When that draft of men has been taken out of the pool, there will be 19,000 left at the end of September. In October further troops will be on the water, end one month's normal reinforce ments under this scheme will bring to England 12,500, making the total in the pool 31,500. In October the demand will be 16,500, leaving in the pool 15,000. For November the reinforcements arriving in England will be 12,500, bringing the pool up to 27,500, and the demand, 16,500, will leave a balance of 11,000. In December the normal reinforcements will number 12,500, making the total in the pool 23,500. The demand will be 16,500, and the balance available at the end of December will be 7,000. In January, under this scheme, 12,500 will go forward, bringing the pool up to 19,500; the demand will be 16,500, and the balance in the pool at the end of January will be 3,000. 
The wastage includes men who become sick in camp or are discharged for various reasons, but it does not refer to casualties. 
I am speaking of the numbers that will arrive in England. 
They are, or they will be. The honorable senator is leaving out of consideration the fact that in September there will be some enlistments. 
I had better complete the statement I intended to make. The honorable senator asked a question, and then cut me off in the middle of my reply. If he will consider the figures I gave at the outset, he will see that I pointed out that the demand up to the end of December is for 82,000 men, and that we have in camp in Australia, in England, and on the water, and deducting wastage and the Fifth Division, 73,000 men. Including the Fifth Division, we have 93,000 men. As the demand, -.ip to the end of December is- for only 82,000 men, the honorable senator will see, if he deducts that number from 93,000, that we shall still have a balance left of 11,000 men. 
Of course. There is no way of avoiding that, because we cannot annihilate time in sending troops to England. If we could do that it would be possible to find a much speedier method of dealing with the question than that which the Government propose. I point out that, no matter what troops are raised, they cannot arrive in England except after the lapse of a certain amount of time. Recognising that, the Army Council say, ' ' We propose to take temporarily from the Fifth Division certain reinforcements, and we ask whether you are prepared to fill up the gap." They know that by filling up the gap from here the troops cannot be in England before January or February. I have shown that, including the Fifth Division, we shall have a surplus in the pool at the end of January. I come now to the question whether the arrangements proposed by the Government are adequate for the purpose. 
Yes. 
-There will be 16,500; the normal reinforcements number 12,500. 
No; we shall not. 
The honorable senator overlooks the fact that if men did not enlist until the end of January, we could not get them to England until four or five months later. Honorable senators must take into account the time that must elapse between the date of the troops leaving here and the time when they will be available to man the trenches. 

 Senator Lt.-Colonel O'Loghlin.There will be a surplus of 3,000 men at the end of January under existing conditions ? 
We anticipate that during February we shall land in England 16,500 men, giving 12,500 normal reinforcements. We say that under our scheme from February on we can land 16,500 per month if we commenced to call men up now at the rate of 16,000 per month. We say that we can do that and replace the Fifth Division, which will be temporarily drawn upon for reinforcements. On the 1st October we shall appeal to the manhood of Australia for 32,500 men required. If that number will not have come forward during September, we shall bring into operation the compulsory sections of the Defence Act, and call up 32,500 men, plus any wastage, that may be necessary, and put them into camp to be trained. We say that these men will be available in England from the end of January. 
In October the referendum will be taken, and at the end of October the referendum, laving been taken, the Government will be authorized or not to send oversea the men who will have been called up. If they had not the necessary time for training here, they may be given the necessary training at the other end; but from the end of October the men can be sent away. I want to refer now to criticism of another character, and that is the criticism of those who are opposed to any proposal to send additional troops away. It has been said that they are not required, and that we are asking too much. 
I mean additional reinforcements. There are people who say that the Government are asking too much, as well as people who say that we are not doing enough. I direct attention to the summary of casualties that occurred in Europe up to the 19th July, at the beginning of the big offensive. The summary is compiled from the casualty lists concluding with the issue on the 6th of last month. During that time there were killed in action, 1,410; died of wounds, 592; died from other causes, 105; missing, 989; wounded, 9,535; ill and injured, 667; and prisoners of war, 16. This represents a total casualty list for that period of 13,314. For the latter eleven days of that period the casualties were 6,743. Practically half the casualties in that hig offensive occurred in the last eleven days. Of course, some of the men have been only slightly wounded, and will be able to resume duty. What little gratification may be obtained from the figures is that a much larger number than in the past have been only slightly wounded. That casualty list is an effective and crushing reply to those who say that the Government do not need to .do anything. I point out to them, if my words can reach them, what is the alternative. It is that the battalions now at the front, nominally 800 strong, must come down below that strength. I put it to those who object to the Government doing anything to say whether that is a fair proposition for the men who have offered their services and are fighting for this country. A military unit is like a football team. No one will suggest that it is a fair thing in a football match to put one team into the field under strength to contend against another team at full strength. Military organization plays an important part in the scheme of war. The General Staff, I dare say, very often find it impossible to keep an accurate check as to how a unit stands in the matter of numbers. It. is supposed to be holding a certain portion of the line. It loses a certain number of men, and they must be replaced. The British Government is responsible for the holding of a definite portion of the line, and British troops are not mixed up with French troops. It is obvious that if the British people will not replace troops killed, wounded, or lost, the number of men spread over the line must be decreased, and their chance of a successful defence of the front intrusted to them must be lessened. This is true of the British troops, and it is equally true of the Australian troops. They are not mixed up with other troops. They are holding a certain definite area of the line. As our battalions become weakened by losses it will be seen that if we do not reinforce hem we place upon the shoulders of those who remain a greater and more awful burden than they have hitherto had to support. I ask those who say that we should not send more men away to consider what this means. The men at the front are our brothers, our fellow citizens, who have offered their lives and their all for this country. Surely there is an implied obligation upon this country to those men to see that the military unit of which they are a part shall be kept up to its full strength. Can we escape that obligation? I do not think we can. There are those who say that the voluntary system will supply all the men required. We have to consider whether it will or not. The Government have stood solidly for the voluntary system. I direct the attention of honorable senators and of the people of this country to the position which the Government have taken up in this matter. They have stood up against adverse criticism. Is it not a fact that, before the Prime Minister left for England, one section, at any rate, of the press of the country and many members of this ' Parliament were demanding conscription? Is it not a fact that whilst a stream of recruits was coming in the Government said "No; we stand by the voluntary system." I said, on an occasion which must be within the recollection of honorable senators, that if we had had more men coming in we could not have made them available. That was absolutely true. We had not the necessary shipping for their transport. Moreover, up to tue month of May, there were sufficient men coming into camp to provide for the monthly reinforcements. Up to that month there was, therefore, no necessity to consider any other measures for the supply of men than those already in operation. In the month of June there was a big decrease in the numbers coming forward, lt has to be remembered that up to May we were under an obligation only to send forward 9,500 per month, because the two new divisions formed in Egypt had not up to that time taken the field. In June the number of recruits fell off, and I give the numbers for the different military districts, as well as the totals, for June and July and up to the 23rd of August. The numbers were - 

<graphic href="079332191609016_9_0.jpg"></graphic>

So that for the three months the total enlistments were only 16,689. It must he remembered that every one of these enlistments does not become available for the fighting line. There is, unfortunately, loss . through sickness and other causes, and that loss will have to be deducted from the figures I have quoted; so that I do not think it can be said that more than 14,000 of the 16,000 will find their way to the firing line. During the period from January to May there were months when we could have sent forward more than the quota of 9,500 men; but since August we should have been compelled to adopt some other system in order to keep up reinforcements at the higher rate, because, as I said before, the proportion of even 9,500 per month was not, at that time, being met under the voluntary system. 
I cannot account for it; though it may be that, on account of the number of men Australia has contributed to the war, the number available is decreasing. We cannot, of course, go on for ever. Then there is the point that all men are not alike in their courage, or, perhaps I had better say, in their patriotism. Some have a greater degree of caution than others; and it may be that, in the earlier stages of the war, the drain upon the patriotic spirits in the Commonwealth was so large that this shortage has now occurred. Again, many men have said they would not go unless compelled. That, in itself, may have been a direct cause of the shortage; but all the causes I have quoted are contributory. When I made the statement, to which I referred just now, that if, at that particular time, more men had come forward than were coming forward, we should not have been able to deal with them, I said what was absolutely true. On a subsequent occasion, however, after repeating the statement, I added, " Whilst I can say that now, I am not so sure that I shall be able to say it three months hence." The reason I made that qualification was that I knew this decline had set in, and I was desirous of awakening the minds of honorable senators and the country to the fact that we were coming face to face with a different set of circumstances to those that had existed previously. 
The difficulty we had to face then was, not one of equipment or training, but of carrying the men overseas, and now the Minister for the Navy informs us that with the shipping facilities at his disposal he can only deal with 13,000 men per month. 
Australia has, either under the control of this Government or the British Admiralty, a certain amount of shipping, and that shipping, fully utilized - according to information supplied by the Navy Department - will provide for the transport of 13,000 troops per month. Obviously, if we are to do what the Army Council ask us to do, we must have more ships. I ask those people  who  are talking about waste of time how we can get more ships here under ten weeks? Have they thought of that? Ships cannot be brought here by the mere snap of the fingers. They have to make that long and weary journey across the ocean, and I think it will be found that under no circumstances could additional ships be here under ten weeks' time. So that if we had more troops brought in by the process of conscription to-morrow, we could not, for ten weeks, send more than 13,000 away per month. That is a point that our friends outside, who are so eager to rush in and criticise- I admit, without full knowledge of the circumstances, and the difficulties - have certainly overlooked ; but it is an important factor in the consideration of whether the Government's proposals meet the existing conditions, and whether, in view of all the circumstances, the Government's proposals are not the only proposals that can be adopted to meet those conditions. I will now refer to the possibilities of the Commonwealth meeting this demand. Honorable senators will remember that some time ago a war census was taken by the Commonwealth Statistician. Some figures as to the numbers available were quoted in the local press this morning, but these, I find, are quite inaccurate. In bis return after the census,  Mr. Knibbs  stated that there were 450,000 persons between the ages of 18 years and 44 years who had not enlisted for active service. There were in the Commonwealth at about the same time - 9 th June - 203,482 single men, 5,243 widowers and divorced men, and 298,754 married men between the ages of 18 and 44 in each case, all of whom returned themselves as "fit." These figures included the men then in camp, and deducting these there were, on 9th June, 152,910. "fit" single men, the greater proportion of whom were without dependants, 4,839 widowers and divorced men, and 294,859 married men. 
They could hardly declare themselves as " fit " if they had been rejected. There was no inducement for them to do that. 
I would like to have £5 for each of those who, being "fit," declared himself " unfit." However, according to  Mr. Knibbs'  figures, there are 152,000 " fit " single men between the ages of 18 and 44. I saw a statement recently in one of the journals that of this number 50,000 were between the ages of 18 and 21. That must, I think, be a purely speculative figure, because  Mr. Knibbs'  return gave no such indication. As I have pointed out, there is a demand for 131,000 men up to the end of March, We have, already, 72,000 with which to meet that demand, and we should be able to realize from the 150,000 single men available the remaining 60,000 men, fit and without dependants, ready to stand by their comrades in the field, and to give them the relief they have every right to expect. That is the worst sacrifice Australia is called upon to make under the Government's proposal. 
It is up to March next. We might go on indefinitely extending the period, but we cannot go on indefinitely extending the period during which Australia can send men away. We shall meet other circumstances as conditions alter, but for the moment I am endeavouring to show that the Government's scheme does meet the present circumstances in a manner to which nobody who believes in the right of the people to govern themselves can object. It does not lose valuable time. It gives us the opportunity for training our men before they are put into the trenches, and it places the obligation upon those members of the community upon whom the sacrifice will fall with least hardship. I confess that certain incidents in connexion with our voluntary system of enlistment have caused me pain. I have seen men going to the front when, in my heart, I felt that they ought not to have been allowed to go. I have seen married men leaving their wives and children behind with very little as a stand-by. In some cases they have been killed and wife and children have been left to battle along as best they could with the assistance given them from the pensions scheme. At the same time, I have seen hundreds of single men, possessing neither chick nor child, healthy and strong, refusing to do anything. 
I do not think the number is so great as that. In the early stages of the war the average was about 12 per cent. of married men. When one comes to judge the sacrifice that people are asked to make, the obligation laid upon them, he must surely recognise that if there are any persons in the community who ought to be prepared to pay this price it is the young men of Australia, the men who have the future before them, the inheritors of this great continent. The older men will pass away, but the young men will inherit, and surely they should be prepared to fight for the heritage which will be theirs. 
An ordinary constitutional referendum costs about £50,000 or £60,000. But that is much more costly than will be this referendum, because a good deal of the printing, such as is involved in the putting of the case for each side, can be dispensed with. 
No. This is not an ordinary Referendum Bill, hut a simple measure of which the Prime Minister has already given notice. Of course, it remains for Parliament to decide whether it is necessary to go through all the procedure that is followed in the case of constitutional amendments. 
The honorable senator will leave the Government to look after themselves. This paternal anxiety on his part is most touching; but I can assure him that that question is one which, after all, does not concern him. 
The honorable senator will find what the Government will do when they come up against this question. At present we are asking Parliament to indorse our proposal to take a referendum. 
It is not a question of what individual Ministers will do or of what individual members will do when the referendum goes to the people. Personally, I am prepared to believe that every honorable senator who realizes the seriousness of the position, who recognises the duty which he owes to Australia and the duty that we owe to our Allies in this war, will weigh well the attitude which he will take before the referendum goes to the people. But I do not believe that there ever was a question on which the people were so well able to make up their minds without any help whatever, as they are upon this question. They are quite able to settle it when it is referred to them. Summarizing the position, I say that the Government agree that the need for keeping our existing field forces up to full strength exists, that it is urgent, and that it is our duty to meet it. They say that in order to meet it, in the light of circumstances which have affected recruiting in the- past, it may" be that compulsion will have to be exercised. The Government do not want to exercise compulsion. We are against compulsory service if it can be avoided, and to the extent that voluntary service will supply the deficiency compulsion will not be used. If voluntary enlistment will provide the numbers necessary, compulsion will not be used, even if the proclamation under the Defence Act be issued. To the extent that men volunteer it will not be used. As regards sending troops overseas, the Government do not intend to accept that responsibility without the authority of the people of Australia. No Democrat can object to that course - there is no Democrat but must support it. In taking the course that we propose, we believe that we shall be acting in accordance with the principles of responsible government, one of the fundamental principles of which is that where a Government has not consulted the people upon a question which has arisen since the preceding election, if it be afforded an opportunity of doing so, it ought to consult them. In giving -the people an opportunity to declare themselves, we do not in any way injure the success of the scheme for the supply of recruits, and we do not in any way cause a loss of time. 
I cannot answer that question at the present time. The honorable senator will have ample opportunity of bringing it forward. I commend the proposal to honorable senators, believing that they will recognise that the alternative put before them is the only one which adequately meets the situation, whilst recognising the rights of the people. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Millen)  adjourned. 
Will the Assistant Minister,  Senator Russell,  say what action the Government propose to take under the War Precautions Act for the regulation  of freights on Inter-State steam-ships throughout Australia? 
SenatorRUSSELL. - Some action has already been taken in this regard. I think itwas on the 8th July last that it was made illegal to increase freights on coastal services beyond what they were at that date. The matter is under the consideration of the Prices Adjustment Board and the Customs and Navy Departments. At a later stage I hope to be able to give the honorable senator the conclusions of the conference of these bodies. 
Is the Minister representing the Postmaster-General in a position to reply to the question I put to him on the subject of motor cars used by the Post and Telegraph Department at Brisbane ? 
I have now the information for which the honorable senator asked. The honorable senator's questions were - 
The original cost of the motor cars used in clearing the postal pillar-boxes in and around the city of Brisbane. 
The cost of repairs for the past two years. 
The cost of relief cars, during repairs, for the past two years. 
The total cost of the service during the past two years. 
The following information, in reply to these questions, has been furnished by the Deputy Postmaster-General, Brisbane :  - 
Original cost of two (2) motor cars, £650. 
Repairs, new parts, £574. 
Hire of relief cars, £390. 

<graphic href="079332191609064_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

The above information is for two years ended 30th June, 1916, since when a third car, costing £240, was put into commission. 
No. 2 car is now undergoing repairs, at a cost of £156. 
Will the Minister representing the Treasurer say whether anything has been done to end the present crisis in the sugar industry in Queensland? 
SenatorRUSSELL. - Yes. The Prime Minister and  Mr. Theodore,  the Treasurer of Queensland, have been conferring upon the matter in Sydney. No reports are yet to hand, but perhaps at a later stage I shall be able to give the result of their conferences. 
I ask the Assistant Minister if he will lay on the table of the Senate a copy of the terms and conditions under which certain firms - Gibbs, Bright and Company, Elder, Smith and Company, &amp;c. - have been appointed agents for the Commonwealth line of steam-ships ? 
SenatorRUSSELL.- I shall lay the papers on the table of the Senate when there are any. The appointments have not been definitely made yet, and certain firms are acting merely as ordinary shipping agents, for a small fee. 
If SenatorRussell is acting as manager for these Commonwealth ships, will he lay upon the table of the Senate a copy of the conditions under which these people have been appointed as agents? 
SenatorRUSSELL. - No appointments have yet been made. No contracts have been entered into. The moment they are, I shall lay copies of them on the table of the Senate. 
Is  Senator Russell,  as the Minister dealing with the wheat pool, in a position to make the statement which he promised to make concerning the payment of the extra 6d. per bushel to farmers concerned in the wheat pool? 
I am glad to be in a position to make  Senator Lynch  happy at last. The extra 6d. per bushel has been secured, and it is only now a matter of fixing up details of the agreement between the Wheat Board and the States. The money will be paid almost immediately. 
I did not wish to refer to Western Australia. By some means Western Australia got 3d. per bushel more than she was entitled to, and we are going to adjust that. 
.- I move - 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until 3 p.m. on Wednesday next. 
Circumstances have delayed the return of the Prime Minister from Sydney, and he is, therefore, unable to meet Parliament to-day. He proposes to return to Melbourne to-morrow, and to leave the same afternoon for Adelaide. The Prime Minister is anxious to be present in another place when the debate on the Ministerial statement of policy in connexion with the war takes place, and the Government, therefore, asks the Senate to adjourn from to-day until Wednesday next, at 3 o'clock. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I desire to announce that, in accordance with the promise I made in answer to a question by the Loader of the Opposition,  Senator Millen,  on the last day of sitting, I have conferred with  Mr. Speaker  with regard to the seat that is reserved for the use of senators in another place. Upon my representations  Mr. Speaker  has decided that the seat referred to shall be reserved exclusively for the use of senators, and that honorable senators shall not be allowed to introduce their friends into that seat. I hope honorable senators will loyally abide by this agreement, and that we "shall hear no more complaints about the seat being occupied when they wish to listen to debates in another place. 
I did not discuss that particular aspect of the question with  Mr. Speaker,  because I took it for granted that if a certain seat is reserved for senators there would be means of access thereto; otherwise it would be a gift of novalue. However, I will take an early opportunity of making representations ta  Mr. Speaker  with regard to that matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister of Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
Is the Minister aware that negotiationsmay result in the State Government of Tasmania acquiring the shale deposits at Latrobe, Tasmania, and turning out large quantities of oil and oil products? 
In view of the importance of this industry to Australia, and the ever increasing use of oil in the commercial world, will the Ministry consider the question of granting a bounty on crude oil produced in Australia as recommended by the Inter-State Commission? 
The reply is asfollows : - 
I believe that some consideration has been given to the matter by the Tasmanian Government. 
This question is under consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister of Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
When will the information disclosed on the wealth census cards be made available for the information of the Senate? 
If the whole of the information has not been compiled, will the Minister supply, without delay, the returns that are available? 
The Commonwealth Statistician reports - 
Progress returns of net incomes have been supplied  to  the Acting Prime Minister from time  to  time,  and  one such was included in the Budgetpapers presented  to  Parliament  by  the Treasurer in May last. A later progress return has been prepared including £20,000,000 more  of  income, but without verygreatly affecting the proportionate distribution. Returns covering probably upwards  of  £10,000,000  of  income havestill  to be  tabulated. 
A progress return of net assets is now in course  of  preparation, and will  bo  available in a few days. 
asked the Minister of Defence, upon  notice - 
If, seeing soldiers  on  final leave often have  to  travel long distances, thereby curtailing the actual time of such leave, he  will  consider the desirability  of  making the time lost in arriving home additional  to  the ordinary final leave? 
The answer is- 
As far as possible  men who  enlist in  the  A.I.F. are placed  in the camp  nearest  to  their place  of  enlistment. The necessity  for  interfering  as  little as possible with  the  training  of the  men, and  the  big expenditure involved, make  it  impracticable  to  give every soldier  an  opportunity  to  return  to  his place  of  enlistment for final leave. In  some  cases,  e.g.,  north-west parts  of  Western Australia, at  least  six weeks' leave would have  to  be given  to men.  Origin- ally a maximum  of four  days (including the time taken in travelling)  was  allowed as  final  leave. This has since been extended  to  ten days, six days with pay, and  four  without pay, for men living  in  districts  remote from  camps. It is not proposed  to  extend  the  time beyond that already approved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy,  upon notice - 
Whether the Government has made  any  provision  in  its docking scheme  at  Cockburn Sound  to  meet the needs  of  merchant shipping  on  the Western Coast? 
If not, will the Government amend its plan so as to meet that pressing need, in view of the long coast line of Western Australia and the long distance to docking accommodation in Eastern Australia? 
The Minister for the Navy supplies the following answers :  - 
It is the intention of the Minister for the Navy to have the question of docking facilities gone into by the new Director of Naval Works, who has just arrived in Australia. Any docking facilities provided at Cockburn Sound will be available for merchant shipping, subject to the Navy always having first call. 
See 1. 
-Has the Minister of Defence any objection to lay on the table of the Senate copies of the instructions issued to the Chief Censor, and the instructions issued by the Chief Censor to newspapers, since the return of  Mr. Hughes  to Australia? 
This question was asked last week, and I then informed the Senate that the instructions referred to are confidential. I therefore cannot lay them on the table of the Senate, but any member of the Senate may see copies of the instructions to the censors at the Victoria Barracks. 
Can the Minister of Defence tell the Senate how much each soldier, under arms in Australia, or abroad, costs per day to the Commonwealth ? 
I am unable to answer that question off-hand, but within the next three weeks the Treasurer will be making a statement to Parliament, in which full information on the point will be given. 
Can the Minister of Defence inform the Senate whether the French soldiers who fought at Gallipoli were conscripts or members of a French volunteer army corps? Can the honorable senator say also whether the French soldiers now at Salonika are conscripts or volunteers? 
I have no information on the subject. 
In the event of an Australian soldier being wounded at Gallipoli, and subsequently in France, is he sent back to Australia to be given an opportunity to recuperate, or what is done with him by the military authorities? 
This is determined by circumstances. If the soldier has been so severely wounded as to be rendered unfit for further service, or is likely to suffer a considerable period of invalidity, he is returned to Australia after he has sufficiently recovered in England. If his wounds are of a minor character, and the time necessary for his recuperation is likely to be short, he is kept in England during the time of his invalidity. 
Will the Minister of Defence cause the large number of regulations issued in connexion with the War Precautions Act to be bound and forwarded to honorable senators with the Act? 
That has been done already on one occasion, and is being done again to bring the regulations up to date. 
In view of the often very unnecessary delay in regard to decisions in industrial disputes, have the Government had brought under their notice the comment of one of the Justices of the High Court recently to the effect that " The experience of this Court is that in many of these industrial cases there is as much delay as can within the lawbe brought about " ? During the recess, or any adjournment of Parliament, will the Government consider the necessity of so amending the Conciliation and Arbitration Act as to prevent, as far as possible, these unnecessary delays ? 
These matters have been brought under the notice of the Government, who have at present under consideration the question of such an amendment of the Act as will avoid delays. 
Has the attention of the Minister of Defence been called to a statement reported to have been made at a meeting of the Recruiting Committee at Colac, Victoria, on 5th September by  Mr. T.  W. Hancock, that " he thought the more pressing duty was to educate the people up to vote' Yes ' at the referendum " ? Will a similar opportunity be given to members of Recruiting Committees  who are opposed to conscription to educate the people up to voting "No"? 
The honorable senator must be under some misapprehension. I have no control of the conduct of the recruiting campaign in Victoria, nor has the Federal Government. It is controlled by the Recruiting Committee. I have seen in the press, as no doubt other honorable senators have, an appeal by the committee, over the signature of the  chairman, Mr. Mackinnon,  and of  Mr. Billson,  to all speakers in the campaign, to avoid all reference to conscription or anticonscription ? 
The appeal leaves the matter to the good sense of those who take part in the meetings. 
No. 
Will the Government give an opportunity to members of the Expeditionary Forces to record a vote at the coming referendum,  no  matter whore they may be? Will they be entitled to vote, independent of any disqualification in respect of age? 
All these matters relating to methods of voting will be dealt with in the Bill that will probably be shortly before the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister of Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
Upon whose advice or recommendation was  Mr. C.  E. Oliver appointed as consulting sanitary engineer to the Home Affairs Department ? 
What are the terms of his engagement, including fees and travelling expenses ? 
What reasons existed for his appointment? 
The answers are - 

 Mr. Oliver has not been appointed as consulting sanitary engineer to the Home Affairs Department. He has, however, been engaged to furnish a comprehensive report upon the sanitary systems for the Federal Capital upon the recommendation of  Mr. Griffin,  Federal Capital Director of Design and Construction, submitted 25th February, 1916, following similar recommendations to  Mr. Kelly  and  Mr. Archibald  when Minister, and after an appointment of  Mr. Oliver  had been made on the authority of the former, . but which was not approved by the latter named. 
His fee for this service is £1,000, and the travelling expenses necessary to him for the purpose of his report are to be paid by the Commonwealth. 
It was necessary to have expert advice. 
asked the Minister of Defence,  upon notice - 
What is the cost per head of transporting our troops from Australia to England? 
What is the cost per head of transporting troops from Canada to England? 
The answers are - 
The cost of transporting varies with each ship, having regard to the following: - 
As hire commences from date ship is taken over from owners, the cost of transporting would vary according to the number of days taken to fit the ship out as a transport and embark troops. 
Detention or variation on voyage. 
Number of days on voyage. 
The number of voyages the ship makes during the period of hire, the initial expense of fitting out the ship with replacements owing to wear and tear would cover all voyages. 
Many transports are fitted to carry, in addition to troops - horses, equipment, guns, waggons, motors, &amp;c. 
It is estimated that the cost of transporting troops to the United Kingdom is approximately £17 per man. 
The information required is not available in this Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for theNavy,  upon notice - 
In view of rumours as to the condition of the s.s.Rotomahana, now trading between Tasmania and the mainland, and the great age of the vessel in question, will the Minister for the Navy authorize a thorough survey of this ship to ascertain if her hulland machinery are in every way seaworthy? 
This is a matter which does not come within the jurisdiction of the Minister for the Navy, who will, however, refer it for the consideration of the authorities responsible. 
Arising out of the answer, may I ask if the statement appearing in to-day's newspapers, and attributed to the Minister, is therefore premature? The statement as published really answers this question on the authority of the Minister. 
The newspapers attribute it to you. 
asked the Minister of Defence,  upon notice - 
Will he cause to be prepared, and lay on the table of the Senate, a return showing - 
Names of men who have gone through Duntroon Officers' Training School? 
Their previous military experience ? 
Results of their examinations ? 
The  information  is being obtained, and will be made available as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister of Defence,upon  notice - 
In view of a number of married men unemployed in Launceston, Tasmania, at the present time, will the Minister issue instructions to commence at once the work on the Launceston Rifle Range, which has been authorized for some time, as relief work for these men? 
Instructions have been issued that the particulars concerning work required at Launceston rifle range be immediately prepared and forwarded to the Department of Home Affairs to carry out. 
asked the Minister of Defence,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that some employees who have been employed twelve months or more at the Commonwealth Clothing Factory, and who have left of their own volition, are paid " back pay" for certain holidays worked, whilst other employees, with almost similar length of service, who have been dismissed for various reasons, have been refused payment for similar work? 
If so, will he take steps to rectify the position? 
The answers are - 
The Regulations provide that only those employees leaving of their own accord or discharged through no fault of their own shall be entitled to receive payment for recreation leave due. 
It is not intended to grant recreation leave to employees dismissed for other reasons. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Under what authority will the writ be issued for taking the Referendum on Compulsory Military Service if the Bill which it is proposed to introduce for that purpose is not passed before18th September, the date mentioned for the issue of the writ? 
The authority for the issue of the writ is given by the Referendum Military Service Bill. It is not material whether the measure receives the assent of the Governor-General before or after the issue of the writ. 
Whether in view of the fact that men over eighteen (18) years of age and under twentyone (21) are eligible to fight for their country, and are doing so, the Government will take into consideration the advisableness of so broadening the franchise that males and females over eighteen (18) years of age shall be entitled to vote at all future Federal elections ? 
This matter will receive consideration. 
I venture, as a preliminary observation, to express the opinion that no member of this Chamber who takes part in this debate will be able to free himself from a sense of responsibility arising from the undoubted gravity of the position that confronts us. The gravity of this position is, I think, very fully emphasized in the statements made by the Prime Minister, and by his colleague, the Minister of Defence. It also arises from a consideration of the military position so far as we are allowed to understand it from the daily papers, and though it is quite true that the later news has heartened us considerably, I venture to say that, taking even the most favorable view of this later news, the most we can say at the present juncture is that we have reached the stage at which we can, I think, say with confidence that it is now clear that Germany cannot win. But it is equally clear we can only defeat Germany - and by defeat I mean the attainment of the full objects for which we went to war - if we resolve to continue, to supplement, and to expand the efforts which we have so far made. To my mind, that constitutes the one question to which we ought to direct our thoughts in consideration of the problem that immediately confronts us. A word now as to the statement which we are discussing. When the first statement was made by the Prime Minister, I ventured to express a feeling of intense disappointment at what I regarded as its insufficiency. That disappointment, I feel sure, was shared by a very large section of the community that holds views similar to my own as to the course of action which we are called upon to take. In order to understand the position we have to recall the circumstances under which the statement was made - the circumstances which caused that statement to be awaited with such intense interest by the people of Australia, by the people of Great Britain, and I might also say - though in perhaps a lesser degree - by the people of the allied countries as well.  Mr. Hughes  had just returned from a triumphal career through Great Britain, in the course of which he aroused a very considerable and widespread measure of enthusiasm, by the dynamic energy with which he appealed to the people of the Mother Country, and demonstrated how that salvation was to be attained, not by hesitancy and delay, but by prompt, decisive, and continuous action. The Prime Minister proceeded through the Old Country as a stern and unrelenting prophet of decisive action. He was indeed a veritable human fiery cross, calling to action the people, not merely of Great Britain, but of the Empire. 
I prefer my own simile. As I have said, the Prime Minister went through the Mother Country as a human fiery cross, calling upon the people immediately to do all, to dare all, and, if needs be, to sacrifice all, in order to proceed to the rescue of the Empire in the hour of its greatest crisis. Those speeches which the Prime Minister made in Great Britain were in a sense messages to Australia as well, and they were so accepted in this country. Any impartial student reading his later speeches in Australia could only come to the conclusion that he was repeating here the dectrines which he so eloquently expounded at 
Home. It was at this stage, and when I, like others, believed that the time had arrived for prompt action in the direction of introducing compulsory military service, that the Prime Minister made his statement in the other House, and the Minister of Defence made a similar statement in the Senate. I want honorable senators to recollect what I have said as to the conditions which existed at that time. In that statement it was set out that the Government intended to proceed by referendum. In listening to that statement honorable senators must have come to the conclusion, as I did, that the Government accepted the referendum as a virtue, and not as a necessity; that they were attaching faith to it as a principle from which under no circumstances would they depart ; that it was in itself the most desirable course open to them. It was under these circumstances that I was disappointed, and felt that there was a big gap between' the irresponsible critic in the Old Country and the responsible Prime Minister of Australia. Since then we have been allowed to see things a little more clearly. We know that the Prime Minister was for four days, I think, in close conference with his immediate political supporters, but we are not privileged to know what happened at that conference. We  do  know, however, that after perhaps our sense of proportion had time to adjust itself, the Prime Minister favoured us with another statement, and his colleague,  Senator Pearce,  delivered another statement in this Chamber. I invite honorable members to consider the difference between these two attitudes. From the first statement it appeared that the Government were adopting the referendum as a virtue; the second made it clear that they were adopting it as a necessity. We know now, from the words of the Prime Minister, that the Government felt the desirability of obtaining definite authority before proceeding to enforce compulsory military service, which would be such a great departure from our existing policy. It looked to the parliamentary machine to provide the authority ; but the Prime Minister has clearly indicated that there is very little prospect of Parliament - I speak of both Houses - assenting to that proposition. The Prime Minister has openly and frankly told Parliament and the country that his real difficulty is this Chamber, and seeing that there was, ap parently - aDd I assume he correctly judged the possibilities of the situation - no prospect of obtaining authority from Parliament, he resolved, by means of a referendum, to appeal from Parliament to the people themselves. That puts an entirely different complexion on the situation. I can accept the referendum as an expedient, but not as a principle. Under the circumstances, one must feel a measure of sympathy with the Prime Minister and ' his colleagues, who, feeling that there was a certain work to do, found themselves hobbled as it were by one branch of Parliament. But whatever our feelings may be - and I am still disappointed that circumstances did not permit the Government to proceed by a more direct route - we are confronted with this position. The Government having taken the responsibility of deciding upon the action to be taken, there is only one course left to every member of this Chamber and every member of the public outside. They have got to say " yes " or "no" to the proposition. For myself, my course is clear. I do not pretend that in all its details the Government's proposition is entirely as I would like it, but I do say that it is the proposition with which we have to deal, and under these circumstances I shall have no hesitancy in doing what little I possibly can in order to insure that the necessary question submitted by the Government shall be answered in the affirmative. 
I do not know whether the honorable senator is serious or not, but as I told the Senate before, I am speaking now with all sincerity. 
This matter is too grave and serious for any other attitude to be adopted towards it. Having said that, may I observe that if there is anything in our Constitution or parliamentary machinery that in a time of great national emergency may paralyze a. Government, then so much of that Constitution or parliamentary machinery must go, seeing that it becomes a hindrance and a danger rather than a help and safeguard. 
I should like now to say a word cr two on the principle of the referendum as applied to a matter of this kind. It is, perhaps, a trifle abstract now, but at the same time I can conceive a danger to the future of Australia if it is to be accepted as an essential principle, that, in a time of great emergency like this, it shall be necessary to consult the people directly. If it is a sound proposition that we cannot proceed to apply compulsion to the extent of raising the necessary reinforcements now without consulting the people, it was more necessary that we should have consulted the people, at the outbreak of the war, as to whether Australia should participate in it or not. 
That is so; but my point is this: I am not now dealing with a particular case, but with the idea which has apparently entered many minds, that, before a step of this kind is taken in a period of great emergency, the Government ie under an obligation to consult the electors. If that were a sound and necessary course of action to take now, it was, as I have said, far more necessary that we should have done it at the outbreak of war, because everything that has happened since has been in consequence of what was then done. But no one ever suggested that a referendum should be taken before we made that offer to the Old Country, and no one would have hesitated for five minutes before making that offer. Yet the question involved then was much more serious than that arising now. The question was whether we should go into the war or stay out, and it was the duty of the Government to take the responsibility of speaking and acting for the people. When the Government announced the course it intended to pursue, it received the fullest assurance of whole-hearted support and approval from the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr. Fisher. 
It does not make the slightest difference. The question waa not whether Australia should fight with volunteers or conscripts, but whether Australia should join in the war at all. If Germany succeeded in winning, she would not say, " I will deal only with the men who fought"; but she would say, " Our quarrel is not with the men who fought, but with the Government and the  people  of Australia." Therefore I want to bring home to honorable senators that, whilst a referendum might be entirely suitable and essential in time oi peace, it might be tragic in its consequences if we bound ourselves down to the doctrine that in all circumstances, before decisive action is taken, there must be an appeal to the people. May I also point out that the proposal with which we are now confronted is the direct result of the action approved by this Chamber ? Something has been said about the present demands upon our resources, and an effort is being made to depict this as being an appeal from the Imperial authorities for something more than we have offered. I can see nothing to justify that view of the case. In November last, this Government, with the unanimous approval of the people of Australia, sent forward a voluntary offer. They undertook to send additional units, and to maintain by reinforcements both the original army and the new one ' they proposed to create. No one then raised the slightest objection - at any rate, I did not hear of it - and the Government had either the active or the silent approval of everybody for the offer then made. The Imperial authorities are now asking us to redeem the promise then made. The need for raising more men arises from the distinct offer which was made in November last. Having made ourselves, by our open or silent approval, parties to that offer, we have now to consider whether we shall see our promissorynote dishonoured, and Australia placed in the ranks of defaulters, 01* whether we shall take the one step which remains to us in order to redeem the promise which we then made. Honorable senators, I am sure, are not limiting their vision to the present when they consider this matter of the referendum. To my mind, it would be the most dangerous principle which could ever be adopted or approved if we did accept it as essential to military action on the part of Australia, that there must first be a direct reference to the people. Australia is a continent with a population of 5,000,000 souls. We sometimes indulge - and' we are entitled to indulge - in some very proud speaking regarding the heritage that has come to us. But we must recognise that science has annihilated distance, and that we have already shown Europe that it is possible to send considerable bodies of troops right round the world. We can send troops to Europe, and they can send troops here. What would be the position if we were threatened with some hostile invasion here, and there was not a moment to lose? Would we then take a referendum, or would the Government act on its own responsibility ? 
I am aware that the law provides for our home defence, but the defence of Australia might not actually take place upon Australian soil. As a result of this war, Australia may be charged with the responsibility of some lands outside the mainland. 
I would like to reply to those people who speak of the virtues of home defence only. What would they say if we were threatened with invasion, and Great Britain, in response to our cry for help, said, " Gentlemen, we propose to take a referendum first." 
Great Britain would have everything to be ashamed of if she paltered with the question in that way when invasion threatened us. But if the referendum, as a principle in a time of great national emergency, is a good thing for Australia, it must be equally good for England. And if it is a good thing for England, my honorable friends opposite must be prepared for the time when an invasion is actually threatened here. 
Let my honorable friend go to Germany and preach that doctrine. That seems to be the most fruitful field for his endeavours. But today we are confronted with a danger which threatens the entire world. We cannot consider the taking of this referendum as a principle- 
When my honorable friend can bring about that state of things I shall be found heartily supporting him. But to-day we have not reached that ideal state. We are dealing with an imperfect human nature - very imperfect in regard to some of the countries with which we are now at war. Until the condition of things pictured by  Senator Lynch  comes about, it would be idle for us to talk in the language of peace. We cannot apply the practice of peace to the dire necessities of war. 
When Australia entered this war she recognised that she was not going into a game of cricket from which she could withdraw her team whenever she chose. There are only two doors by which she can emerge from the present conflict - that of defeat or that of victory. Until we do emerge from it we are bound to put forward every effort of which we are capable in order to see that victory comes our way. 
I mentioned a little while ago that there were two features in the Government proposal which I thought were capable of amendment. I mention them now, not that I have very much hope that the Government will amend them, because, rightly or wrongly, I have formed the conclusion that the Government have limited their proposal, not because the limitations imposed are an improvement, but possibly in the hope that such limitations may make their proposal more acceptable to those who are known to be opposed to the underlying principle of compulsion. One of the objections which might be raised to this proposal by supporters of compulsory service is that it is intended to allow the voluntary system to run side by side with it, not merely for the current month, but for all time. There are two or three serious objections to that. First of all, are we going to create, even in the minds of the people, a difference between the volunteer and the conscript soldier? That, in itself, would be very undesirable. Is the volunteer in camp to say to the conscript, " I am a superior citizen to you because I came here of my own free will, whereas you waited until the hand of the law coerced you " ? That, I submit, would introduce a very undesirable feeling in the minds of men who enrol after the Referendum Bill has been passed. 
I am merely pointing out one of the defects of the Government proposal. The Government having frankly admitted that the voluntary system is not equal to the obligations which Australia of its own free will accepted, it would have been butter to have made compulsion absolute, and to have retired the voluntary system altogether. But apart from the fact that it is proposed to create two classes of recruits, I would point out that it is intended to conscript only single men from twenty-one years of age upwards, whilst at the same time accepting as volunteers lads of eighteen years of age and married men. Now, I hold very strongly that we have been sending away to the front men who were too young for the task that was ahead of them. 1 know that the military authorities are not quite unanimous as to the effect which the strain of a campaign has on these lads. 
We could keep them back if we had conscription, or if we declined to enlist volunteers under twenty-one years of age. It seems to me that if the Government decide to continue the voluntary system it is well worth consideration whether they ought not to limit the age at which they will accept volunteers to twenty-one years. 
I accept the statement of the Minister of Defence, but I am curious to know over what area that analysis proceeded. It has been affirmed oy a very competent writer, dealing with the Napoleonic wars, that in all the marches which Napoleon made - and it was his rapidity of movement which was so largely responsible for his startling successes - it was the men over twenty-five years of age who pulled him through. It was the younger men who fell out first. 
They were not. But whilst the Australian of eighteen years of age may be better than a man of similar years elsewhere, I am not prepared to admit that the results in the case of bodies of troops from Australia would be very different from the results in the case of troops from other countries. I wish to refer to one of the evils arising from this practice. First of all we have to recognise that the recruiting officers are very keen to get men. Owing to the necessity for this keenness I venture to say that they have not scrutinized too closely well -grown lads under eighteen years of age who have come forward to enlist. It is curious that only in the last week I noticed these two statements in two different newspapers, but on the same day. One is a communication from the Reverend Thomas McVitty, who states - 
The other evening I was called upon to impart the sad intelligence to a widowed mother that her only son had been killed in action. You can picture my astonishment when I was informed by the mother that he was barely 17 years of age, and was only 161/2 years at the time of enlistment. 
Verylikely he did. One can honour the boy's keenness, courage, and patriotism in determining to get through, but I am entitled to direct attention to the need for some tightening up of the recruiting machinery which enabled him to get through. The other announcement was amongst the notices of deaths, and was as follows : - 
Wilson. - Killed in action in Egypt, between 4th and 6th October, H. Noel, age 17 years, only son of  Mr. and Mrs. J.  C. Wilson. 
I saw one of these notices in the  Evening  Sun,  and the other in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the same day. I have had personal knowledge of cases of a similar kind. It will be admitted that, in the case of well-grown lads of seventeen years of age, it is not easy to say whether they are 17 years, 18 years, or 19 years of age. But I say that if the recruiting officers are assured of an ample number of troops by means of the  compulsory system, there is every reason why they should scrutinize more closely the enlistment of these lads of tender years. Assuming that it is the Government's policy to obtain the necessary men by means of compulsion, there will be no need to rake in every volunteer, and if it be decided to continue the acceptance of volunteers under twenty-one years of age, we should ask for something more from them than their declaration as to their age. We should ask from their parents, in addition to their consent to their enlistment, a statement as to their age. The enlistment of these lads of tender years is in one sense a scandal, whilst in another it naturally fills us with pride that they should be willing to face the dangers of the trenches in the interests of their country. 
 I am not doubting the courage of these, young men. I suppose that if we asked the school boys of Australia to form a brigade every boy amongst them would be willing to join. I am not doubting the courage of our young men at all, but I do ask whether it is quite fair that boys of this age should be enlisted when we have men enough in Australia for the man's job that has to be done'? 
 I thought I had done so. Seeing that it is proposed to compel only men over twenty-one years of age to serve, if the Government intends to continue the voluntary system side by side with the compulsory system - and I do not think that should be done - they should not accept volunteers under twentyone years. In the case of lads coming forward for enlistment we should provide by regulation that they should have not only their parents' consent to their enlistment, but a statement from their parents as to their actual age. A boy will quite willingly sign a false declaration if he is determined to enlist. 
 That is so; but we should also have an assurance from the parents as to his age. 
I am sure that the Minister of Defence does not approve of lads of seventeen years of age being shot in the trenches. 
Do they not send in a letter saying that they are willing that their sons should enlist? 
Then I suggest to the Minister of Defence that a form should be devised under which, if his parents consent to the enlistment of a lad, they should at the same time make a statement as to his age. There would then be a double check. It might oe that the parents would enter into collusion with the lad to tell a falsehood, but the course I suggest would, I think, lessen the evil to which I direct attention. 
I am dealing with boys of sixteen and a half years of age, and I am sure that the honorable senator does not approve of lads of that age going to the front. 
I say that if we continue the voluntary system, anc under it accept lads of eighteen years of age, we should take all the precautions necessary to insure that those who  are  enlisted are eighteen years of age. Any member of the Senate could, in five minutes, devise machinery to require ladE desiring to enlist to bring with them some proof of their age. Proof of age is a difficulty which  we  easily surmount many times in the ordinary transactions of life. I wish now to say a word with regard to the enlistment of married men. The Minister of Defence referred in touching terms to the spectacle presented by a married man with family responsibilites going to the front, whilst single men are staying at  home. I indorse everything he said on the point. Lately the methods of embarkation have been altered, but in the earlier stages I have seen units proceeding to embark at the wharfs and at railway stations, and as the troops have marched along the street, I have seen some woman hanging on the arm of her husband, with two or three toddlers clinging to her skirts, and at the same time the footpaths have been lined with single men without a chick or a child to care for. I say that the Government ought not to accept married men if they volunteer fifty times whilst there are single men without family obligations available. 
If the war goes against us, we shall be compelled to go much further than the present proposals of the Government, but I am dealing now with the present proposals only. 
Under the presentproposals we shall not reach the married men in January at all. 
It is proposed to issue a proclamation, from 1st October, calling into camp under the home-defence provisions a certain number of men. Will the Minister consider whether it is not advisable to issue that proclamation at once? If it is issued on 1st October, the men called to camp under it will not be in camp and have settled down before the end of October. 
Oh, yes. 
They will be in camp long before that. 
Have they not had notice now ? 
When the Minister was making his speech, I interjected a question which he received in quite another spirit from that which I intended. I asked him whether we could assume that the Government would support the referendum when it was before the country, but the Minister apparently thought I was seeking in some way or other to embarrass certain members of the Government who might not cordially approve of compulsory military service abroad. That was not my idea. I saw that it would make a big difference in the mind of the country if the proposals were put forward with the Government supporting them, or if they were put forward with the Government indifferent to their fate. Part of my question has been answered by the Prime Minister's declaration that he intends not merely to put the referendum to the electors, but to support it when it is there. It is a matter of great interest to Parliament and thecountry to know what the attitude of theGovernment will be on the question when the electors are called upon to deal with it, and that was the reason I asked the.question. It will make a considerable difference to the success of the appeaL whether the Ministry are divided or united on it. The electors are entitled to assume that the Government contain the men who know at least as much of the actual facts as any other body of men, if not more, and if Ministers are united on the subject, that knowledge must influence the electors considerably. If, on the other hand, they are unfortunately divided, the people will be entitled to say, " It is quite true that some Ministers tell us they regard compulsion as necessary, but others tell us it is not " ; and therefore they may  be pardoned if they decide that it is safe to vote in the negative, as the matter cannot be very urgent, seeing that the Ministry cannot agree on it. 
The Government propose to submit this matter to the people, and ask them to pass judgment on it. This brings us to the question of whether the people, in order to arrive at a sound judgment, are to have the advantage of a free platform and a free press. There are indications which no one can afford to ignore that the censorship is today being carried to an extreme not dreamt of six months ago, and, strong supporter as I am going to be of the proposal of the Government, I still say that we ought to ask them to give the country, not merely an assurance, but an absolute proof that the censorship will be relaxed as far as it is safe to do so, having regard to military necessities. 
 That has been already given. 
I recognise that in the campaign on which we are about to enter, consequent upon the Government's policy, there is going to be a very sharp division of opinion. I am quite unable to understand the mind of those who oppose this proposal, but many currents of thought are at work. The opposition does not all spring from the one motive. Many are, I believe, animated by fears which, although groundless, are nevertheless sincerely held. The same fear was expressed in Great Britain when the Imperial Government proceeded to introduce compulsion there, and I venture to say that members of industrial unions at Home were just as keen to maintain their privileges as are the unionists of Australia. Since then, however, the opposition in the Old Country seems to have evaporated. 
Like the Leader of the Opposition, we can all agree that there is not a member of this Chamber, or, indeed, of this Parliament, who is not fully seized with the gravity of the present situation - a situation which is not due to any action on the part of Australia. Let us carry our minds back to the outbreak of the war, when the Cook Government went to the country. As the Minister of Defence has pointed out, when the Government of the day promised to send men to the front no one at that time dreamed that Australia would be called upon to render assistance to the extent that she has done. We well remember that for weeks the newspapers of Australia were emblazoned with headlines to the effect that Australia should aim at raising 100,000 men. At that time it seemed a stupendous task, but to-day the Commonwealth has enlisted for service, not 100,000 men, but over 300,000, and I think we can justly claim that Australia has not only done her duty, but that she has done more than her fair share. I do not say that everything has been done, but, in my opinion, everything has been done in consonance with the safety and continuance of Australia as a growing nation. In regard to the question now under discussion, I think it is fair that one of us, as a member of the Federal Labour party, should take upon himself the responsibility of informing the country that the Government proposals are not the indorsed and approved proposals of the Federal Labour party. I leave members of the Cabinet, individually or collectively, to speak for themselves. I take the responsibility of speaking as a member of the Labour party. 
I may say, in reply to that pertinent interjection, that I speak for a big section of the Labour party, and I think it is due to the people that the fact I have stated should be known. I know that in New South Wales and South Australia, which I visited last week, the opinion was that the Federal Labour party was behind these proposals. 
No. They are still Under the impression that these proposals emanated from the Federal Labour party. They were prepared to hear  Mr, Hughes,  and  Mr. Hughes  alone, on them. Personally, I am not going to support the Government's proposals as they are now before the Senate. It has been stated by the Leader of the Opposition that, though as a principle he is against the referendum, on this occasion he is going to support the referendum. 
My position is (hat I am in favour of the referendum in general cases, on every occasion possible, but I am opposed to this referendum ; and I feel that I am right, because my views are so divergent from those held by the Leader of the Opposition. I admit my position may appear illogical, but I think I can justify it. I regard the matter of dealing with sacred human life as being one of conscience, and conscience only - a sacred matter of conscience - and in my view, if 99 per cent, of the people said "Yes," that expression of opinion should not bind the minority which said "No." I refuse to any Government and to any majority the right to trade in the lives of the people. 
They have no right. 
Irrespective of what the views of the people may be on this question, 1 am going to oppose it. This is not the only occasion upon which I have taken up a similar attitude. I remember, when the question of religious instruction in State schools arose in Queensland, I took the responsibility of adopting the attitude that the will of the majority ought not always to prevail, because there are occasions when the majority has no right to rule the minority. 
If the ' honorable senator is prepared to joke on a matter of this kind- 

 - Mr. Hughes has said that he thought it was the opinion of Australians generally that conscientious objectors would not be worth dealing with, or something to that effect ;. but those who vote " No " have no right to be forced to take any action upon which might depend, and probably will depend, sacred human life. 
I have said before, in this chamber, that I believe in compulsory training from a physical point of view. I think it is a good thing foiour growing young men ; but for the purposes of home defence I do not think it, would matter twopence, so far as the Australian is concerned, whether there waa compulsion or not. 
It is one that I think will bear examination in this connexion. 
No, I would not. I do not think the Australian would require any compulsion in such a case. I asked the Minister of Defence this afternoon if the French soldiers who went to Gallipoli were conscripts or volunteers? He replied that he had no information on the subject. I asked  Mr. Hughes  a similar question in Sydney, and received a similar answer  but I think they should have been able to inform us that the French soldiers who went to Gallipoli did not go as conscripts, but as volunteers for overseas service, so that in this proposition we are going further than France in asking to conscript soldiers for service overseas. When this Government took upon itself the responsibility of offering a further 50,000 men to Great Britain, I did not think there was any likelihood of the reinforcements not being met by the voluntary system. Up to May last there was no falling off in recruiting. When the Defence Department was charged with the task of getting these men, every day, every week-end, the newspapers urged upon the Minister of Defence and the Defence Department the desirability of laying bare the position. The Minister eventually gave particulars showing that, owing to the temporary cessation of hostilities at Gallipoli, it was not necessary to send forward the same large drafts that had been going. As soon as the Minister disclosed that information, recruiting committees, press, and others at once attacked him, charging him with having brought about a reduction in recruiting. 
I say that that is what gave the bodies of which I speak the opportunity of dropping their advocacy of voluntary recruiting, and of going bald-headed for conscription. From that time onwards members of Parliament, members of shire councils, the press, and other over-zealous citizens, instead of addressing meetings in favour of the voluntary system, unreservedly denounced it. 
They were over-zealous in the wrong direction. They denounced voluntary enlistment and Advocated conscription. 
Members of Parliament, members of shire councils, and, I am sorry to say, members of the clergy. I have in my mind one meeting in the Prahran Town Hall," at which  Sir Frank  Madden spoke, and at which a section of the community were described as " greybacks " and " creeping things " - palpably meaning lice. These were the men who were permitted to address public meetings. They were allowed not only the liberty, but the licence to preach conscription, whilst anybody opposed to it who dared to address a public meeting was hounded down and coerced and the Defence Department took no action. 
I am speaking of meetings that were held in the heart of Melbourne. The inevitable result was a noticeable falling off in the recruiting figures. Had the Defence Department been firm with these recruiting agents, had it commanded them to stand off preaching conscription at public meetings, there would have been no necessity for this proposal. I refuse to admit that the voluntary system in Australia has failed. How can it be said that it has failed when out of our mere handful of people we have enlisted 300,000 men who have passed the physical test? In such circumstances, how can anybody urge that the voluntary system has failed? 
I believe that our resources have not yet been dried up. We are told day after day in the press that if our soldiers at the front are not supported to the extent of 16,500 reinforcements monthly, they will be left to the German wolves. The Leader of the Opposition used some such argument today. Does anybody make that statement in all seriousness? 
Then the honorable senator is paying a very poor' compliment to the Imperial authorities. Are those authorities going to allow 
Australian volunteers to perish at the front after all that Australia has done ? I will not libel them to that extent. 
If we cannot keep up our reinforcements I do not think that Great Britain -will allow our volunteers to be slaughtered. Australian volunteers, even during the war, have nobly aided the conscript armies of European countries. Is it not a fact that a mere handful of Australian volunteers at Gallipoli kept the Turks at bay at a most critical time for the Russians, and thus saved the latter from what might have been annihilation? Had the Turks been able to reach the Russians on their flank when they were being so strongly pressed by the Germans, disaster would have been unavoidable. Therefore, our Australian, soldiers have done something for the conscript armies of European countries, and, consequently, I do not think it is fair for the advocates of conscription to retort that Australia will have to rely upon conscripts from abroad. 
I will come to that now for the edification of my honorable friend. In the statement made by the Minister of Defence it is set out that the necessities of the immediate present comprise reinforcements to the extent of 16,500 per month, and for the month of September reinforcements to the extent of 32,500. This latter number is made up of the ordinary monthly contribution of 12,500, and of an additional 20,000 that is required to replace what is known as the Fifth Division which is now in England, and which is to be broken up to supply renforcements 
The other day the Minister affirmed that it takes three months to train a soldier - that our men cannot be trained in less than three months. A little later on he said - I read the statement in  Hansard  only yesterday - that this Fifth Division which is now being broken up for reinforcements had not completed its base training, and that it was extremely improbable, in all the circumstances, that it would have gone into action this summer. 
The position, then, is this: The Defence Department, or those who are responsible for drawing up this scheme, ask for 20,000 men during the current month in order to make up the big total of 32,500. I would like the Minister to tell us why these 20,000 men, who are needed to replace the Fifth Division in England, are all required during the month of September. In the Northern Hemisphere the next summer cannot commence before the beginning of April. That is seven months &gt;hence. If the men were raised by the end of December they would still have January, February, and March - three months - in which to become trained soldiers. Why, then, are these 20,000 men required during the current month ? This is a point upon which I am not at all clear, and unless the Minister can give us some good reason why it is necessary to secure this force during September, although its services will not be required at the very earliest before April of next year, I shall be forced to conclude that the military authorities do not desire that the recruiting system shall live, and that they wish to kill it by imposing upon it the impos*sible task of raising 32,500 nien during the present month. 
I believe it is n very big undertaking. 
I do not think we shall be able to do it for very long if we have compulsion.  Mr. Hughes  himself only gives us eleven months in which to spin out the whole manhood strength nf Australia. I ask  Senator Millen  what Australia will do then. Shall we depend on conscript nations to protect us then ? 
I hold that one of the best services we can render the Empire at the present time is to refuse to deplete Australia of every available man. I do not agree that the Allies have ever been short of men-. What they have been short of is munitions and equipment. I do not believe that they have been short of men at any time, or that they are short of men now. 
That may be so; but I may be allowed to express a humble opinion. I cannot be expected to accept the opinion of every one else as correct. If we had been guided by our own opinions in connexion with the Gallipoli landing, and had not depended so entirely on the military advisers, and taken all they said as gospel, the people of Australia would not in those early days have been led to believe that our men would get through to Constantinople. Personally, I now think that they could not have done so. This was not owing to a shortage of men, because there were thousands of Australians in Egypt at the time. If the reason for the Gallipoli gamble or slaughter was a shortage of men, the fault was certainly not due to Australia, because we did not have the direction of the forces engaged. I-come now to the consideration of a phase of the Government proposal which I consider the more serious because of its imminence. I refer to the proclamation which the Government are about to issue calling up men under sections of the Defence Act. I think that is a mistake. I hope that even at this late hour the Government will decide not to call up these men before the result of the referendum is known. The vote at the referendum would not alter my opinion of the matter, but it would go far to g reserve peace and good order in the Commonwealth if the Government could see their way not to call up men by proclamation under the Defence Act until the referendum has been carried. There is an aspect of the question which has been given some prominence, and on which great stress might be laid. I refer to the legal aspect of the intended action of the Government. I remember that  Mr. Blackburn,  the member for Essendon in the Victorian Parliament, raised the question at a meeting in Melbourne. He pointed out - and his opinion has since been confirmed by other barristers - that the Government have no authority under the Defence Act to call up these men for service overseas. They have authority to call them up for home service only. The Government in their proposal, and neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Defence in their explanatory speeches have ever professed that these men are to be called up for home defence, or that their services are to be used for home defence. They are being called up in preparation to be sent abroad in the event of the people ratifying the Government proposal at the referendum. 
For service overseas. 
I hold that, in calling these men up a month before the referendum is taken in order that they may be sent abroad, the Government will be acting unconstitutionally and illegally. The Defence Act is specific on this matter. Under sections 46, 59, and 60 it is provided thai men may be called up for home service only, and the power to issue a proclamation calling up the reserves applies to a time of war. 
Under section 4 of the Defence Act " war " is defined to mean not such a world-wide war as we are experiencing to-day, but it is stated that - " War " means any invasion or apprehended invasion or attack or apprehended attack on the Commonwealth or any Territory under the control of the Commonwealth by an enemy orarmed force. 1 submit that the Government do hot apprehend an attack on Australia, or upon any territory in Australia. 
The Government are not calling up men for that reason. 
Because they are not calling them up for home defence under the Act. 
The Government claim the right to call up the men under sections 59 and 60 of the Defence Act. 
Y.es, for training for home defence, and not for service abroad. The Government have no power under the Act to call up men for training in anticipation of sending them overseas. 
-Not unless they apprehend an invasion of the Commonwealth or a territory of the Commonwealth, and they do not apprehend any such invasion. 
Because the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence have said so. 
- Then, you say, the Government are calling out these men for home defence ? 
-The Government are calling the men up, but they are not calling them up for home defence. I may say why I should regret to see the issue of this proclamation before the people have ratified the Government's proposal. I listened intently to the remarks of  Senator Millen  when he referred to the industrial aspect of this crisis&gt; because it is a crisis. I agree with the honorable senator that the position is very serious. I profess to know something of the temperament of the workers of Australia, and I say candidly that I fear for the industrial results in Australia if the Government go on with their contemplated action, and call out men under the Defence Act prior to the ratification of their proposal by the people. In 1912, during the general strike in Brisbane, we had an opportunity on several occasions to witness the gathering of angry mobs. We know that feeling at that time was intense, and we have reason to know now, from communications which have been received, that the pentup feelings of the industrialists of Australia may find very serious vent if instigated or intimidated by any action of the Commonwealth Government in. this regard. I fear grave results may follow. 
Personally, I do not want to see them. I spoke at a meeting in the Guild Hall, Melbourne, last night, on the question of a general strike. I told the audience not to consider such a matter in a light or frivolous vein. I said that we had had experience in Brisbane of a general strike, and knew that it involved want, .suffering, and care to a great section of the community, and -not to the wealthy section, who, I suppose, made little or no difference in their mode of living because of the strike-. I told the audience also that if the opportunity presented itself to choose the lesser of two evils, they should choose the lesser evil, and I viewed the imposition of conscription, or the contemplated introduction of it into Australia, as being a greater evil by far than would be a general strike in Australia. I beseech the Government to give this appeal more than a passing consideration. The Minister of Defence, by the figures he has submitted in this Chamber, has shown us that even if not another nian were enlisted under the voluntary system before the end of December we should  have sufficient men to carry on with up to that date. 
In your statement. We must expect that somemen will enlist under the voluntary system between now and the end of December. Men are, as a matter of fact,, coming forward now at the rate of 4,000 or 5,000 per month. This will account for from 16,000 to 20,000 men, and it is reasonable to anticipate that there will bean increase in the number of volunteers. 
In four months. 
-The honorable senator should let me finish what I wish to say. Voluntary enlistments will give usfrom' 16,000 to 20,000 men, and that will meet all the necessities of the Government for a further period of one month after the end of December. A month will necessarily elapse between the proposed issue of the proclamation and the takingof the referendum. So that voluntary enlistments would be sufficient to coyer the additional period to be provided for if the proclamation were delayed, as I SUK. gest, until the result of the referendum is known. I trust that the Minister of Defence will give this matter serious consideration, because I, for one, view it with very great concern. I do not speak without knowing something of the temperament of Australian industrialism. That is why my fears find such expression. On the question of the enlistment of married or single men.  Senator Millen  mentioned that married men had gone to the front whilst single men have refrained from enlisting. I recall the interjections made when the honorable senator was speaking by my colleagues on the other side. Even if the supply of single men should not be exhausted until four or five months have passed, we should, after that period, have to bring the married men in. We should then witness the spectacle of married men going to the war and leaving wives and families behind. 
We are not taking them now; they are going themselves. That is the whole difference. 
 No,  I am not sheltering. I have endeavoured to avoid being personal in this debate, but I want to tell  Senator Millen  now that even if Parliament should pass fifty conscription measures, and the people should carry fifty referendums in favour of conscription, they are not going to conscript me. I am definite and terse on that point, as the honorable senator has taken it upon himself to raise that personal question. We are invited to accept  Mr. Hughes'  assurance that wealth will be asked or compelled to bear its fair share of the burden of the prosecution of the war. 
Quite impossible. The Government put forward a cut-and-dried scheme for getting the men required, but have no concrete proposals for obtaining the wealth. I say candidly that I am not going to take the assurance of  Mr. Hughes,  or of the Government, on this matter. I am not going to place filthy lucre on the same plane as sacred human life. I said in this chamber as far back as May last that conscription of men and conscription of money are not to be mentioned in the same breath. Are we to accept a vague, sweeping sort of promise that, after having made provision for the compulsion of men, the Government will see that wealth comes in afterwards 1 The proper procedure would have been to' make provision for obtaining the wealth before mentioning the conscription of men; and even if that were done it would not alter my opinion regarding the conscription -of men. We can judge this Labour Government only by their actions during the past two years, and I say unhesitatingly that they have not done the fair thing regarding the provision of wealth for carrying out Australia's part in the war. 
It is strange that some of our friends are always ready, judging by their interjections, to make provision for the compulsion of men, but we do not hear many voices raised to compel the Government to make the necessary financial provision. Any number of people are prepared to support the Government proposals for conscripting men who would execrate the same Government, the Prime Minister, and the Minister of Defence, if they brought forward any concrete proposals for raising Australia's share of the money necessary to finance the war. 
Interjections on the question of compelling men have been far more frequent than interjections about conscripting wealth when Ministers have been unfolding the Government's financial proposals in this Chamber. I would ask some of my honorable friends who interject so freely when the question of compulsion of men is under review where they were when amendments were proposed on a previous occasion for raising the war loan at pre-war rates of interest ? Where were they when endeavours were made to amend the Government's policy so that subscribers to the loan should not be exempt from State and Federal income tax, and to prevent members of the stock exchanges getting a commission of 5s. per £100 ? 
A division was taken on an amendment by  Senator Mullan  on that very question, but I do not think  Senator Millen  voted with us on that occasion. 
The honorable senator may have raised it, but he did not push it to a division. I supported it by my vote, which is more than the honorable senator did. 
Possibly that is the explanation. The individuals to whom I have been referring may howl at those of us who are opposed to the conscription of human life. 
Why not conscript it and take it, as the Government are now seeking to take the men? Another line of argument used by  Mr. Hughes  is, " Why should you bo afraid of conscription, seeing that you have your "own Government in power? Surely you are not afraid of the harsh administration of a conscript law by your own Government?" Conscription is wrong whatever Government it is passed or administered by, and as for accepting an assurance that the Labour Government would not administer it harshly, I can judge them only by their administration of the War Precautions Act during the past two years. It is my honest and firm conviction that they have been most harsh and partial in their administration of that Act. Influential and wealthy men, or men with good backing, could take any action they liked regarding the preaching of conscription, but those without influence and money and backing have been thrown into gaol for preaching against it. 
The plea has been that they were prejudicing recruiting. If the Minister had made a start on  Sir Frank  Madden, he would have done something equitable. It was he who referred to the workers as " grey backs " and "creeping things." Dozens of instances can be brought forward in which the War Precautions Act has been put into operation against the working classes, whilst influential men were allowed to go scot free after insulting the workers at their own sweet will. Men who did not enlist under the voluntary system, men with family obligations or other good reasons for not enlisting, were called rotters, wasters, and wastrels, while those who opposed conscription were called cowards and bullies in the leading columns of the influential daily papers of Melbourne. The military authorities took no action against these influential people, but if a man on the stump preached against conscription it could be. twisted into an utterance detrimental to recruiting, and he had to suffer the consequences. We believe that no Labour Administration should bring in conscription. Since his return from Great Britain,  Mr. Hughes  has, I believe, expressed the opinion that the Labour Government, or a Fusion Government, or a Government led by  Mr. Cook,  would have to introduce it. Even if it meant the formation of a Fusion Government to-morrow, and putting us into opposition for the next seven" or ten years, I would sooner receive a proposal for conscription from a Fusion Government than from a Labour Government. 
My experience of the workers is that when they are oppressed they revolt and remove the disabilities, but when, as during the past two years, they suffer under the insidious administration of their so-called friends, they put up with far more than they would from their opponents. When the workers have to bow their neck to tha yoke of conscription, it will hurt far more if it has to be riveted up by a Labour Prime Minister or a Labour Government. 
The position is serious now, and with conscription and the increased casualty lists and the bigbill for pensions, one wonders where it is going to stop. All the Labour Government have done has been to follow thebeaten track of anti-Labour Governments, and go loan-mongering without bringing in effective taxation. The. first thing that should be taxed is the land, because all the money borrowed by Australian Governments prior to the war was borrowed to improve theland. 
SenatorReady. - Is not the loan system voluntarism ? 
Quite so, but it should not be put on the same basis as voluntarism of human life. The wealth of a community belongs to the community, but the life of an individual does not belong to the community. 
In this lifeanddeath matter, the life of the individual does not belong to the community, and I dispute the right of the people to give that man'slife away unless the man is willing to take on the risk voluntarily. For these reasons I cannot support the  Government  proposals, and trust that before the fatal first of October is reached they will give the matter earnest consideration, with a view to a big modification, particularly as regards issuing the proclamation calling up the men even before the people have said " Yes." In my opinion, the Government are making a fatal mistake, which will alienate, to a great extent, much sympathy which might be given to them at the present critical time. I sincerely trust, therefore, that this aspect of the matter will not be overlooked. Those who agree to the referendum on this question of life and death will be morally bound to support the verdict of the people if the vote should prove to be in the affirmative. That is only a logical conclusion. I am, however, opposed to this question going to the people, because I do not think it should be decided by them. Therefore, if a vote be given in the affirmative, I will not abide by the will of the people in this sacred matter of conscience. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
In moving 
That the Senate do now adjourn, 
I desire to say that a Supply Bill is coming before another place to-day, and it is necessary that it should go through the 
Senate to-morrow, because the payments included in the Bill are due. The Supply Bill will be the ordinary formal measure dealing with past expenditure, and before the Senate adjourns for the referendum campaign, the Government will bring forward a financial statement embodying the proposals for financing the war. 
I expect that the Bill will be here to-morrow, and for that reason the Senate should sit to-morrow to deal with it. It is hoped that the Referendum Bill will have passed in another place before the end of this week, and it is necessary that that Bill should be through the Senate before the end of the following week. The Government desire to give honorable senators the fullest opportunity to debate the details of that measure, and it will be advisable, therefore, that the Senate should meet on Tuesday next. No honorable senator will then be in a position to say that he did not have an opportunity to speak on the provisions of the Bill. I am aware that this course will call for some sacrifice on the part of those honorable senators whose homes are in the other States, and whose practice is to return to their homes at the week-ends. 
No; I expect it will be here at the beginning of next week, and I am indicating this so that honorable senators will be able to make their arrangements accordingly. The business to-morrow will be the consideration of the Supply Bill. The Referendum Bill will be taken next week, and before Parliament adjourns for the campaign, the Senate will have an opportunity to deal with the financial statement, which will set out the Government's war policy, and which will cover both taxation and other financial proposals of the Government. 
I am sure all honorable senators desire to help the Government to conduct the business in the most expeditious way, and as there appears to be some doubt concerning the progress which may be  made in another place, I suggest that, after transacting the business before the Senate to-morrow, instead of adjourning until Tuesday, the Government might ad  journ  until Friday afternoon, by which time we would be in a position to know what are the prospects of obtaining measures from the other House on Tuesday; and we would know whether we should adjourn to the ordinary day, or till Tuesday. The Minister will see that it would be rather foolish to adjourn the Senate from to-morrow until Tuesday, if, when we came here on that day, we found that the business in the other House had  not  been sufficiently advanced to allow the Senate to proceed. 
.- What I said just now was an intimation concerning the present intention of the Government, which might have to be varied before to-morrow by any developments in regard to these Bills in another place. I can only say, at the present juncture, that the Government will give consideration to the suggestion of the Leader of the Opposition, because it is not the wish of the Government to bring honorable senators back on Tuesday if there will be nothing for them to do. It is intended to take the formal stages of the Referendum Bill on Tuesday, and enable the secondreading stages to be commenced on Wednesday. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
In view of the fact that temporary clerks employed in the Defence Department are supplied with uniforms, is it the intention to supply uniforms to the men employed in the various ordnance stores? 
If not, why not? 
The answer is -  1 and 2. No temporary clerks except  those  who are  attested  soldiers are issued with uniform. All clerks  of  the Ordnance Department who are  attested  are being provided with  uniform. 
asked the Minis ter for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is he aware that  a  recruiting committee (Malvern)  is  displaying placards on which are words to the effect - " Do notwait for compulsion;  be  a volunteer. Last day for voluntary enlistment, September 30th "? 
And, if so, is such wording in accordance with the Government Defence proposals, now before both Houses? 
The answers are - 
No. 
No. No instructions have been issued to Recruiting Committees in anticipation of the Government's proposals. 
CASE OF R. J. HUGHES AND J. McCARTNEY. 
asked the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral,upon  notice - 
Other than forwarding a letter of thanks to  Mr. R.  J. Hughes for saving the £1,901 belonging to the Postal Department in the attempted robbery of 31st May last, is it the intention of the Department to recognise his services ? 
What recompense has been made. (if any) to  Mr. J.  McCartney for injuries received,  in  the execution of his duty, at the hands of  the  bandits on the same occasion? 
The answers are - 
An expression of the Department's appreciation of the manner in which  Mr. Hughes  performed his duty on the occasion referred to was conveyed to him in writing, and a commendatory note was made on his record. Nothing further is proposed at present. 
Some of  Mr. McCartney's  claims in connexion with his injuries have been met, and others are receiving favorable consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister call for a report showing the cost of removing the King Island Wireless Telegraph Station from its present position to the Post Office Reserve, Main-street, Currie, King Island? 
The reply furnished by the Minister for the Navy is "Yes." 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, upon  notice - 
Is it his intention to disfranchise people of enemy origin who have one or more sons fighting with the A.I.F. at the front? 
All persons of enemy birth will be disqualified from voting at the forthcoming referendum under the provisions of the Referendum Bill mow before Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General,  upon notice - 
Has his attention been drawn to the attack made in to-day's leading article of the  Argus  upon  Mr. Justice  Higgins  (President of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court)  ? 
Will the Minister take such steps, as may be considered necessary in the interests of justice, as will prevent a Judge of the High Court from being attacked by the  Argus  or other newspapers in the Commonwealth? 
The answers are - 
Not previously. 
The High Court has itself decided that Judges are not exempt from criticism which does not amount to defamation or contempt of Court. No action is in contemplation. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Will he cause inquiries to be made as re  gards  the number and amount of fines and penalties inflicted on soldiers in the Bendigo Military Camp since and during the appointment of  Major Ebling  and CaptainRoss as Officer Commanding and Adjutant respectively, and state how this compares with the same camp under previous officers? 
Yes. Inquiries are being made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
What is the unimproved value of land as shown bysection XI. (b), Wealth Census Card, in - 

<graphic href="079332191609145_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

The information is not yet available, the compilation having to be temporarily suspended, in order that the staff should deal with the " call to arms" appeal and matters arising, therefrom. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
How many people are employed in the Commonwealth Statistician's Office? 
What is the total amount of salaries paid each week? 
Why has so much delay taken place in supplying Parliament with returns disclosing the information contained in the second schedule under heading - 5.  Property? 
The answers are - 
The number of persons at present employed in the Commonwealth Statistician's office is 159, as follows: - On the usual work of the branch - permanent staff, 24; temporary staff, 28; total, 52. On war census worktemporary staff, 107. 
The total amount of salaries paid weekly is £587. 
The compilation was temporarily suspended in order that the staff should deal with the "call to arms" appeal and matters arising therefrom. A progress return is being despatched to the Prime Minister. 

I ask the permission of the Senate to make a statement. 
Leave granted. 
I desire to inform the Senate that the Honorable F. G. Tudor has resigned the portfolio of Minister of Trade and Customs. No other appointment has yet been made. 
I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the Bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
Honorable senators will notice that the consideration of this Bill is the only business that we have before us at present. It is desirable that we should be able to proceed with it immediately, sitting to-morrow, if necessary, and to enable us to do that we shall need to suspend the Standing and Sessional Orders. 
No. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a first time. 
I shall deal with the details of the Bill itself on the motion for its second reading. But I wish to correct a statement that I made just now. I said that if the Bill was not dealt with to-day, we could sit to-morrow, but I believe that it requires to be passed to-day, as payments are due under it. 
Some few days ago, when the Minister of Defence was laying papers on the table of the Senate, I was under the impression that an award, a copy of which I had received, had not then been presented to this Chamber. On inquiry from the  Clerk,  however, I learned that the award in question had been laid on the table of the Senate on the last day that it had previously met. Upon reading that award it struck me that it contained something which was not in accordance with the principle which has been laid down by the Labour party in connexion with wages paid for services rendered. The award in question was given by the Deputy-President of the Arbitration Court,  Mr. Justice  Powers, in the case brought before him by the Australian Commonwealth Public Service Clerical Association. I have always understood that the policy of the Labour party, and. indeed, of this country, is that the wages paid to any individual should bo proportionate to the value of the services rendered by him. In the present instance, however, that policy has been departed from, inasmuch' as regard has been paid to the conjugal conditions of members of this organization. Hitherto a man or woman has been paid the salary that is attached to the office which he or she fills, quite apart from any other consideration. But, apparently, there is a number of persons who believe that they can influence our marriage statistics by imposing disadvantageous conditions so far as the employment of single men is concerned. I desire to read the comments of  His  Honour upon this matter. Upon page 30 of the award he says :  - 
The only reason given by the respondents for fixing a lower wage than that fixed by the Arbitration Courts as a living wage for a labourer - and one which must have weighed with all the State Governments - is that clerks do not usually marry before 23, and at 23 they receive, generally, more than the living wage fixed by this Court for a married man and his family of two or three children, and they continue to receive automatic increases until they reach £180 a year. 
That is, the adult minimum wage far clerks is fixed on the basis of single men, and before they marry they are, as a general rule, receiving the adult wage claimed - £156. 
In support of this contention evidence was tendered showing how few men marry at 21, and that the majority are single now until they reach 29 years of age. After that age the married men are in the majority. 
It must be admitted that £126 (paid to all clerks who enter the service, after they attain 21 years of age) is sufficient to keep a clerk, while single, in reasonable comfort, and allow him to make some provision for marrying, especially as his salary increases each year until he does marry; but as some clerks do marry before they receive £156 a year, and as I do not think any clerk if married, considering the value of the work he does after four years' service, ought to be required, during these days of abnormal prices daring the war, to live on less than £150 a year, I propose to provide that until this award is amended an officer in the fifth class, if married, shall receive such an addition to his salary as will make his total remuneration equal to £150 a year. Since coming to the conclusion that some special provision should be made for married men, I note that, in West Australia, clerks in the fifth class, if married, are paid more than single men. In New Zealand a difference is also made. 
I propose to fix the adult wage for fifth class officers, single men, at £126, and for fifth class married officers at £150. 
I think this is the first time that a principle of that kind has been introduced in an industrial award. Thinking it was wrong, I made inquiries from the responsible officers, and found that, so far as the fifth class is concerned, a young man enters the Service at 18; when he reaches 21 he has to be paid a minimum wage of £126 per annum; the following year, according to the award, £138; and next year, unless exception is taken by the officers or by the Public Service Commissioner, £156 a year. That is his minimum wage at the age of £3, because these are practically annual increments. The terms of the award are - 
Officers in the fifth class, clerical division;at whatever age they enter the service, when they shall have attained the age of 21 years, shall, if single, be paid a salary of not less than 
£126. 
Officers in the fifth class, clerical division, after they attain the age of 21, shall, if married, be paid a salary of not less than £150 per annum. Every officer in the clerical division, fifth class, shall be advanced after twelve months to the next higher subdivision - provided that such advancement has beenapproved by the Commissioner upon report from the Permanent Head or Chief Officer, as to conduct, diligence, and general efficiency of the officer. 
Provided that every officer who enters the service after 18 years of age, and who shall receive the salary of £126 a year solely because he is 21 years of age, or the salary of £150 solely because he is over 21 years of age and married, shall only be advanced (if entitled to increments) to the next higher subdivision eachyear after having received £126 or £150, as the case may be, for twelve months, until he receives £156 a year. No further advancement shall be granted until he would, in the ordinary course as an efficient officer, have become entitled to more than £156 a year if he had advanced through the subdivisions of class 5 and had remained unmarried. This condition is without prejudice to his promotion at any time for special efficiency, good conduct, and diligence. 
The salary of £126 or £150, as the case may be, shall be payable from the first day of the month succeeding the date upon which an officer attains the age of 21 years or marries. Provided, however, that where an officer marries while in receipt of £138 per annum, he shall be advanced to £156 twelve months after he has received £138. 
I object to this method of dealing with the labour question. There seems to be a desire in many quarters to penalize the man who does not see fit to marry. Comparatively few of us were married at twenty-one, and I protest against the idea often expressed in the newspapers and elsewhere, that people marry for the good of their country. A man marries because he meets the woman who, he believes, is his right mate. He has no thought of doing good for the country by breeding further individuals for the community. He and the woman marry practically because it suits them. A young man who enters the Public Service is entitled to £126 a year when he reaches twenty-one, but if he marries on the day after he is entitled to £150 straightaway. 
That is not the question. In all probability he does, but the real test is the value of the work done, and not a man's conjugal state. The award seems to represent an endeavour to induce or force men to marry for the sake of a certain amount of pecuniary reward. If the principle is to be applied to outside employers, as well as to the State, it will be curious to see how it acts. It appears at first sight to offer a premium on marriage, but what chance will a married man have of getting work if he has to be paid ahigher wage than a single man doing the same amount of work ? A single man who does the same amount of work as a married man is entitled to the same wage. Many people advocate extra taxation on single men, and  Dr. Arthur  recently advocated the collection of a tax from all single men, and all married people with one or two children, so as to hand over the proceeds to people with four or five. It is not long since there was an agitation in the press for the special taxation of single men. Why not call things by their right names? The principle practically amounts to a special reduction of wages for single men, and really offers no inducement to a single man to marry unless he meets the right woman. This is not the time to penalize a man because he does not see fit to marry. What is the position today? In connexion with the recruiting movement do we not see, in the columns of the daily press, appeals to the single men to take their share in defending the community, because single men have not others dependent upon them as is the case with married men? If, then, we are asking the single men to step into the breach in this way, is there any reason why an award should be made stating, in effect, that a man who is not married shall not receive the same value for the labour which he gives in connexion with any industry as the married man ? It seems to me that the principle is wrong. I understood, and, I think, other members of the Senate understood, that, when this legislation was being passed, Parliament would be afforded an opportunity of saying whether an award under this Act should be put into force or not. At all events, that was my impression until I made an inquiry, and found that, according to the departmental view, the position was otherwise. The Act was passed in 1911, and I find, upon perusing the measure, that Parliament has no power, except at the instigation of the Attorney-General, to deal with this matter at all. Sections 14 and 15 of the Act are as follows : - 14. (1) Every award made under this Act shall be expressed not to come into operation until a future date, not earlier than after the expiration of thirty days after the award has been laid before both Houses of Parliament. 
When an award has been made under this Act, the  President  of the Court shall forthwith send to the Prime Minister and to the Attorney-General a certified copy of the award. 
The Prime Minister shall, within fourteen days after its receipt, if the Parliament is then sitting, or, if not, then within fourteen days after next meeting of the Parliament, cause the award to be laid before both Houses of the Parliament. 15. (1) Except as provided in this section, this Act shall not empower the Court to make any award or order, or give any direction which is not in accord with the laws of the Commonwealth and the regulations made thereunder. 
The Court may, where it thinks proper to do so, make an award which, in the opinion of the  President  of the Court, is not, or may not be, in accord with a law or regulation of the Commonwealth relating to the salaries, wages, rates of pay, or terms or conditions of service or employment of employees; but in that case the  President  shall send to the Prime Minister, and the Attorney-General, with the certified copy of the award, a statement of the laws or regulations of the Commonwealth with which, in his opinion, it is not, or may not be, in accord. 
The Prime Minister shall, within fourteen days after its receipt, if the Parliament is then sitting, or, if not, then within fourteen days after the next meeting of the Parliament, cause the award and the statement (if any) of the  President  to be laid before both Houses of the Parliament. 
If, before the award is laid before the Parliament, the Attorney -General advises the Prime Minister that, in his opinion, the award is not in accord with any law or regulation of the Court referred to in the opinion, the Prime Minister shall cause the opinion to be laid, together with the award, before both Houses of the Parliament. 
If, in the case of an award accompanied by such a statement of the  President,  or opinion of the Attorney-General, as is above referred to,either House of the Parliament, within thirty days after the award, with the statement or opinion, has been laid before both Houses, passes a resolution disapproving the award, the award shall not come into operation. 
Except as provided in the last preceding sub-section, but subject to the Constitution, the award shall, from the expiration of those thirty days, or such later period as is specified in the award, have full force and effect notwithstanding the provisions of any law or regulation of the Commonwealth. 
This award was brought down without any message from the Prime Minister, or any special opinion from the Deputy President of the Arbitration Court. It was laid on the table on the last day of sitting prior to the adjournment. That was considerably more than thirty days ago, but the Act does not specify thirty sitting days. It merely states that an award shall come into force thirty days after it has been laid on the table, unless Parliament, by resolution, orders otherwise. I know that is the view of the Department, because the Public Service Commissioner told me that the award was in force now. While it may not affect a great many, the principle, in my opinion, is wrong. 
Under the income tax the object of exemption is to relieve to some extent the married man with children, but this principle will interfere with industry. Would the honorable senator have two deck hands on a vessel, one getting £8 per month, because he was a married man, and the other only £6 a month because he was single ? I am sure he would be one of the first to object to it on principle. 
But the principle is wrong, because, if it is allowed in connexion with an industrial award in relation to a public Department, it is possible that it will be extended to outside employment, and thus it might prevent a married man from getting employment, because an employer might be obliged to pay him a higher wage than to a single man for similar work. I have brought this matter up now because it is the only method by which I can place before the Senate my views on this question. It is the first time that I have found a distinction of this kind made in connexion with an industrial award, and I think it only right that I should protest against the principle because of its probable future effect in other employment. 
I recognise that the matter calls for some reply. The complaint refers to a judgment of the Arbitration Court, and not to a declaration of policy by the Government. 
I point out that the Court is not guided in its judgment by the policy of the Government, which is set out in the Act upon which the Court adjudicates. If Parliament, or the Government, desired to adopt a certain line of policy as to a principle to be laid down in a judgment of the Court, that policy must be clearly set out in the Act itself. While it may serve a useful purpose to refer to the position, I point out fiat the authority of the Government can only be exercised after the Court has given judgment. If the Attorney-General certifies - in respect to these Public Service cases - that there is nothing in that judgment to conflict with any law of the Commonwealth, the judgment is laid on the table, and it comes into force unless Parliament takes certain action to prevent it. So that it seems to me the only course for the honorable senator, and those who think with him, to take is to wait until an amendment of the Arbitration Act is brought forward, and if they then think an instruction should be issued to the Court dealing with these matters, to see that their point of view is clearly set out, and that the Court must make its judgment within the lines laid down. 
I doubt whether the Court would take any notice of any protest in Parliament. The only effective way Parliament can deal with the Court is by an Act. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
In doing this, may I point out that the Bill is to grant Supply for the term of three months, the sum involved being £5,023,580, which will carry the Government to the end of November ? Included in the Bill is the sum of £1,100,000 advance to the Treasurer. That is a very large amount, but all the details will have to come before Parliament subsequently for authorization. The money is required for the East-West railway, Post Office sites and conduits, building in London, and the Fine Creek to Katherine River railway. These items involve the sum of £600,000, and though the various works have already been approved by Parliament, the specific amounts of cost have not hitherto been voted. Another amount of £100,000 is really a bookkeeping entry - a payment for foodstuffs for the Governments of India and South Africa, which will subsequently be recovered from those Governments. Just here may I say that one result of the war has been the opening up of a very profitable trade in foodstuffs between Australia and South Africa and India, and it is somewhat regrettable that the scarcity of dairy cattle, and other circumstances, have prevented the Commonwealth from carrying on this trade to a considerably greater extent than has been possible. 
A variety of goods - flour, bacon, cheese, &amp;c. 
The requests of the Governments of India and South Africa were promptly sent on to the various State Governments, and, as far as they possibly could the Commonwealth Government have tried to facilitate trade. There have been certain trading prohibitions, but they were with the object of protecting the people of Australia. For instance, in respect to the export of butter, it is a fact that prohibition was applied, but that was not until the discovery was made that there were only ten days' supply of butter in Australia. Some States had surpluses, but some had none, and the Government stepped in and prohibited export, lest a scarcity should be created and prices sent up unnecessarily. The Bill also provides for the cost of the referendum, which it is anticipated will involve from £60,000 to £80,000. This sum is also ineluded in the Treasurer's Advance, and the balance is to provide for unforeseen requirements. A sum of £399,660 is provided for the universal training of the Citizen Forces. This was not carried out last year, but it is being carried out this. Then £300,000 is provided for the trading vessels which the Commonwealth are now Tunning - both the vessels that have been purchased and also the interned German vessels that are being used for trading purposes. The sum includes payments for coal, stores, wharfage, light dues, stevedoring, freight, &amp;c, sums that up to now were paid by the agents in foreign countries out of the freight. In order to adjust accounts, however, it is now necessary to provide for the expenditure in the ordinary way. These are the principal items in the Bill, which otherwise is based on the normal estimates of 1915-16. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee : 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 postponed. 
Clauses 3 and 4 agreed to. 
Schedule. 
I should like to know whether the Minister for Defence, or the Government as a whole, have given any consideration to the necessity for Federal control of the various war funds to which the people of Australia have been, and are still, contributing. I do not need to enumerate the different patriotic bodies that are in existence. All no doubt have very laudable purposes to serve, and I am sure that the ladies and gentlemen in charge of the various funds are doing their very best to see that the money so freely contributed by the public shall be spent in the right direction. There is, however, a danger that there are too many controlling the various funds, and that there is overlapping of the efforts of those in charge of them. I think there should be concentration, and that in conjunction with the State Governments, State War Councils, and Patriotic Committees, the Federal Government should take steps to see that every penny contributed by the people to these various funds is spent in a proper way. I shall not elaborate the suggestion, but remind the Minister for Defence that the consensus of opinion in Australia at the present time is that there should be some central body appointed to control these patriotic funds. Another matter to which I desire to direct attention is an alteration which has been made in the regulations under the War Precautions Act. Statutory Rule No. 216, issued on 6th September, 1916, deals with the exemption of aliens .from the regulations, and from it I quote the following - 
War Precautions, Aliens Regulation 1616, additions and amendments. 
Section 11. The following aliens shall he exempt from the provisions of these regulations: - 
All Consuls representing any foreign country, and their stall's, in so far as the staffs comprise persons who have been sent by the Government of a foreign country for employment upon the staff of the Consulate, and their wives. 
All aliens exempted by the Minister or 
Secretary or Acting Secretary of the Department of Defence. 
It is to paragraph  b  that I take exception, and I wish to direct the attention of the Committee to what it contains. I do not object to the Minister for Defence having the right to exempt aliens under these regulations, but I do decidedly object to any civil servant having such a power delegated to him. 
The paragraph to which I take exception does not require the consent of the Minister to enable the Secretary or Acting Secretary of the Department of Defence to act in this matter. It gives a civil servant the same power that a Minister of the Crown may exercise. There may be reasons for this which the Minister for Defence will probably give in reply to this debate, but those reasons must be very strong to induce me to confer upon a civil servant the same power which this Parliament confers upon a Minister of the Crown. The Minister is responsible to this Parliament directly, the civil servant is not. In raising this question, I wish it to be distinctly understood that I do not reflect in any way on the gentleman who at the present time occupies the position of Acting Secretary of Defence at Military Head-quarters in Melbourne. I recognise in him a very valuable officer. Whilst I have confidence in his ability, I am not prepared, in accordance with the wording of this regulation, to vest in him the same power that Parliament vests in a Minister of the Crown. I want to know the reason for this regulation. We are today at war, and the alien question is a very important and very grave one. We are endeavouring so far as we can by legislation and regulation to safeguard ourselves against any system of espionage that might result from the residence amongst us of persons of alien birth, extraction, or sympathy. We have rightly invested the National Government with certain powers to protect us from the enemies within our gates. With that I am in entire accord, but I cannot agree with a regulation, which not only delegates the authority of a Minister of the Crown to a civil servant, because that would require the permission of the Minister before action by the civil servant, but which gives the civil servant the same power as Parliament has conferred upon the Minister. I should like to have some statement from the Minister for Defence regarding the necessity for this particular amendment of these regulations. The paragraph to which I have taken exception amends a regulation issued three months previously on the 28th July, 1916. There is no mention in section11 of that regulation of any power being given to a civil servantto exercise the same authority as a Minister of the Crown. If honorable senators will compare the statutory rules they will find that a drastic alteration of the previous rule is contained in paragraph  b  of the regulation to which I am referring - 
All aliens exempted by the Minister or Secretary or Acting Secretary of the Department of Defence, and the master and crew of any public vessel of any Government. 
There would not be so much objection if the paragraph read, " All aliens exempted by the Minister and Secretary, &amp;c." 
That is what I wish to know. 
I think that in this connexion a reference to wasting time should not be made. 
My time is at the service of the public, just as is that of th Minister for Defence. If this regulation gives a civil servant the same power as the Minister himself possesses, we ought to know the reason for it. Of what use is it to have Ministers of the Crown if civil servants may exercise their authority? The Minister for Defence has suggested that it is wasting time to discuss this matter; hut if we do not ask the reason for these regulations we shall remain in the dark. I want to know if the Secretary for Defence,  Mr. Trumble,  may exercise full powers of exemption under this regulation in the same way as Minister for Defence? 
Not in every connexion ? 
Then if I have served no other purpose, I have at least enabled the Committee to hear a statement from the Minister for Defence as to what the regulation to which I have referred exactly means. 
With reference to the first matter mentioned by  Senator Needham  concerning the control of war funds, there has recently been issued, under the War Precautions Act, a regulation which stipulates that no new fund shall be originated in any of the States without the consent of the State War Council. 
Probably it would have been well if such action had been taken earlier. At any rate, it has been taken now, and this will regulate the commencement of new funds and new collections for existing funds, and will prevent abuses in this way. The other question raised by  Senator Needham  as to the control of the expenditure of these fluids is one of very great importance.  Senator Needham  has spoken of a central body, and I do not know whether he refers to a central body established in Melbourne, or such a body in each State. 
I do not think that a. central body is required so much as a definition by law or regulation as to how the funds shall be controlled and spent, and their expenditure accounted for. The Repatriation Fund is, so far, the only fund regulated by Federal law. It is controlled by a Board of Trustees appointed by the Federal Government. In my opinion, the time has come when similar action will have to be taken by the States or the Commonwealth in regard to all other war funds. The Commonwealth Government have not been idle in the matter, but it has to he remembered that the objects for which these funds have been created differ in the various States. People have contributed to the various funds with specific objects, and on the understanding that the money would be used to promote those objects. No Government should attempt, without very serious consideration, to legislate to divert these funds to objects other than those for which they were created. Recognising that, the ' Government endeavoured to get the various State Governments, which are more closely in touch with the local funds, and, above all. with the local circumstances, to introduce legislation in respect of those funds. Some of the States have already done this. I believe that Queensland and Western Australia have done so. 
I think that several other States have the matter under consideration at the present time. I quite agree with  Senator Needham  that there is a necessity for legislation in respect of all those funds. Personally, I think it is desirable that there should be State legislation in respect of funds which have been raised locally. On the other hand, the Repatriation Fund, being a national fund, should be dealt with by Federal legislation. I can assure  Senator Needham  that the Government do not intend to lose sight of this matter, but propose  to see if we cannot arrive at an understanding with the State Governments in respect of it. In regard to the other question raised by the honorable senator, I can assure him that he need have no fear that the proposal he has been discussing will have the effect of causing the reins of government to pass from the elect of the people. But the time is ripe, and rotten ripe, for divesting Ministers of many functions, and of vesting those functions in the permanent heads of the Departments, that is, if Ministers are to cope with the work of their Departments. I have referred te this matter previously. Take, for example, the Department with which I am associated, even in peace time. Prior to Federation there were six Defence Departments, one in each State, with a Minister presiding over each of them. Under that system a Minister had ample time to sign every document. He could dot the " i's " and cross the "  t's  " in  every  one of them. But with the advent of Federation, those six Departments became one. At the same time we inherited the departmental system which had previously been followed, and now that the Department has grown, the Minister has to stagger along with all this detail work on his shoulders, in a fruitless endeavour to do what could easily be done under the old  regime.  To continue that system to-day is absolutely impossible. Do honorable senators - think that Ministers in Great Britain have all these matters of detail brought before them ? The objection to the existing system is that it makes the Minister of a Department the mere slave of detail. If he has to spend the whole of his time, apart from the period devoted to sleep, in attending to mere matters of detail, he will never have an opportunity to consider questions of policy. Coming to the particular question referred to by  Senator Needham,  I wish to say that the regulation which he quoted referred toprior regulations. In the Statutory Rules published in July, 1916, the Alien Registration Regulations are set out in detail. I may be permitted to explain that in some portions of the Commonwealth there are a large number of aliens, and it was deemed desirable that we should have power to register them and to keep track of their movements throughout the Commonwealth. As those regulations were originally enforced, before an alien who had registered could change his address he had to secure the consent of the Minister. Fancy effect being given to a regulation of that sort ! If an alien who had registered desired to change his residence from Ballarat to Bendigo he had first to obtain the consent of the Minister. The thing inevitably broke down of its own weight. 
It is in the regulations. 
The honorable senator did not look up the original regulation - No. 9. 
Exactly . Now it is proposed that the Secretary of the Department, or the Minister, shall be vested with power to allow an alien to change his address. I do not think that the honorable senator, now that the position has been explained, need have any apprehension that a public servant is to be vested with undue power. 
.- The Minister having dealt with this matter, I apprehend to the entire satisfaction of  Senator Needham,  I wish to refer to a question which falls under the head of "Pay, £12,000." This is not the first occasion on which I have called attention to what I regard as a very grave injustice to an important section of our permanent Military Forces. I refer to the sweated wage that is being paid to the sergeant-majors of the Instructional Staff by the Defence Department^ Honorable senators have merely to recollect that a. corporal who lias only been in training for five or six weeks at the most, receives a much higher wage than do the sergeant-majors from whom he has gained most of his knowledge, to be seized with the palpable unfairness of the existing position. To-day, the time of sergeant-majors is spent in instructing not only non-commissioned officers, but those who are qualifying for commissions. Yet these sergeant-majors are receiving no higher pay than they received previously. Any young man with a good education will experience very little difficulty in securing a commission after three months' work. Upon receipt of his commission he receives something like 17s. 6d. per day, and on embarking for active service he is paid  £1  ls. per day, or more than twice as much as is received by the sergeant-majors from whom he obtained the greater part of his instruction. I have called attention to this very unjust state of affairs because it urgently demands a remedy. These sergeantmajors work all hours without complaint, and are thoroughly devoted to their duties. But surely it is high time, in view of the splendid work which they have done, and. are doing, that they received a rate of remuneration at least equal to that of a corporal on active service. It is a disgrace to the Defence Department that they should not be getting the pay to which their splendid services entitle them. I have no desire to mention any names in connexion with my protest. No matter what State one may visit he will find that these men are receiving the same scant consideration. I wish to say - and I do not wish my statement to be interpreted as a threat - that if these sergeant-majors do not speedily receive thejust measure of recognition to which they are entitled, I shall ask the Senate to express its opinion on the matter in such a way that the Government cannot longer refuse to take action. 
I think that  Senator Long  was one of the gentlemen who made representations to me in regard to the pay of sergeant-majors who are placed in the camps of the Australian Imperial Force. It must be remembered that there are two classes of duty performed by sergeant-majors now. In the first place, there are those who are associated with the training of our Citizen Forces. They are located in districts, and I need scarcely remind honorable senators that that training is not continuous. These sergeant-majors have to train our Senior Cadets, and also to be associated with the annual training of our Citizen Forces. They are not on duty every day in the week. They are not on duty on Sunday. The training' of the cadets is generally carried out at night with a half-day's drill, and sometimes a whole day's drill on Saturday. Of course, when our Citizen Forces go into camp the staff sergeant-majors are required to go with them. It will be seen, therefore, that in connexion with our home training the staff sergeant-majors are not constantly employed. But, of course, when our Citizen Forces go into camp these officers are on duty so long as the camp lasts. In other words, they are on duty seven days a week. Then, in the Australian Imperial Force camps, a large number of staff sergeant-majors are employed. These men are put to additional expense owing to their presence in such camps, and acting on the promise which I made in reply to representations some time ago, I have looked into this matter, with the result that a special allowance has been made to these officers to cover the extra expense to which they are subjected whilst they are absent from home. Honorable senators will understand that when a staff sergeant-major has been detailed for duty within a certain area, he establishes his home there, and naturally he is put to additional expense when he is taken away from that home, and placed in one of our Australian Imperial Force camps. The allowance lias been fixed on a fairly generous scale- 
But the honorable senator must recollect that in addition to that, a sergeant-major enjoys a special allowance which brings his pay much above that received by a corporal. My recollection is that a corporal receives 9s. per dayfor seven days weekly, or £3 3s. per week. Now, the pay of a sergeantmajor is £156 yearly, exclusive of allowances. With the allowance which he receives in an Australian Imperial Force camp, his pay is certainly much higher than is that of a corporal. 
He is given a messing allowance in addition to the special allowance I spoke of. It is pleasant to distribute largess and raise salaries and wages, and unpleasant to have to reduce them ; but I cannot see my way at present to recommend the Government to increase the amounts above what we are paying. I think that what we have done in the way of a special allowance for the men in the Australian Imperial Forces camps is a fair thing. We hope those camps will not be everlasting, but, in view of the burden the country is now carrying, I do not feel justified in recommending the Government to go any further. I do not know whether  Senator Long  was informed of what was done, but I fancy it was communicated to him, and I should like him to consider whether the matter could not be allowed to remain where it is, at any rate for the present. 
.- I and other members of the Senate would be glad to know the intentions of the Government as to the immediate disposition of the fleet of ships recently bought by the Commonwealth. Will the responsible Minister state whether it is intended to utilize them solely in the international trade, or to put some of them in the Inter-State trade? I am more especially concerned in ascertaining how many, if any, are likely to be placed on the route between Australia and Tasmania. 
They are much more suitable for passengers than are a number of those now .in that trade. I would much prefer to travel on one of them than on the Noah's Ark known as the  Rotomahana.  The people of Tasmania are anxious that something should be done at once to relieve them from the grip of the shipping combine now operating between that island and the mainland. ' 
That would be only giving effect to the compact which the Labour party entered into at the 1914 elections. The purchase of the Commonwealth line of steamers has, in a measure, redeemed the promise given at the time, but has not done so completely. Necessary as it is to link the east with the west by a line of railway, it is equally a Federal obligation to link up Tasmania with the mainland by a Commonwealthowned lino of steamers. 
No; but no matter how stupid was the conduct of ex-Senator Clemons in that connexion, I have sufficient confidence in the present' Government to expect them to get us out of it. The people of Tasmania have suffered long enough, and we shall be glad if the Minister will state definitely whether it is the intention of the Government to place at least two of these ships on that trade immediately, or, if not immediately, how soon. 
Is it intended that the ships should be worked entirely by the Commonwealth when they arrive? Is a Shipping Department to be established, and will the Commonwealth do its own agency business, or hand it over to a private firm or firms? I do not want to see a repetition of the wheat chartering business in this case. The Commonwealth should be its own agent, and transact the whole of its own business, and not hand the vessels over to any private firm, no matter how well Known or reputable. 
.- Tasmania's unfortunate position in this matter is entirely due to the fact that the previous Administration, in the teeth of the opposition of the majority of the members of the Senate, handed Tasmania over to the hands of the Union Steamship Company and Huddart Parker and Company Dy giving them a mail contract which will last for another six years at least. It may last longer, because the contract which ex-Senator Clemons signed provides that a new boat equal to the  Loongana  shall be put on, and that the new contract shall last for another five years from the day that that new ship takes up the running. As it is now laid up in England, about seven-eighths completed, it may be another two years before it arrives, so that the contract may have another seven years to run. I, as a representative of Tasmania, have, therefore, without success, racked my brains to find a way which can be logically and fairly recommended to the Government to get out of the difficulty remaining to us as a legacy of the blunders of the last Administration. 
We have a large and important produce and fruit trade at one season of the year, and it would help us considerably if the Minister for the Navy could see his way clear to put a boat, not necessarily one of the new ships, but one of the many now under the control of the Navy Department, on to the Sydney-Launceston or SydneyHobart trade for certain months of the year. That would be a real and tangible help to our State, and the producers of our splendid fruits; and while not in the same category as providing us with a new mail and passenger service, it would at least help our primary producers, and be of great assistance to two or three States. I believe a member of my own party is approaching the State Government to do something in this regard, and that if the Minister for the Navy would provide the ship, an arrangement Wl Ofl the State Government would be possible by which the service could be inaugurated in the coming fruit season. 
.- Tasmanian people are deeply interested in the action of the Government in acquiring steamers, and in most quarters there there is nothing but commendation for what the Government 'has done in that regard, but I doubt if any of the steamers recently acquired would be of much value for a direct passenger service wilh the mainland. 1 understand that they are rather slow. 
We have the fastest boat in the Commonwealth on that trade now, but it is not fast enough. We are dissatisfied, not with the vessel, but with the conditions.  Senator Ready  might well have said that we are in the hands of one company, because the two companies he mentioned run as one, and I do not know that they are not one except in name. The previous Labour Government had as part of its policy the establishment of a Commonwealth-owned steamship service between Tasmania and the mainland, a proposal which met with approval from one end of our State to the other, and to which effect would undoubtedly have been given if that Government had remained in power. Every one in Tasmania, except a very few, deeply regrets the condition in which we find ourselves to-day - tied up with a contract foi- five years after the new boat referred to by  Senator Ready  reaches Australia. It may not be here for two years, or even ten years. So long as the war lasts it is probable the boat will remain on the stocks, and yet the contract will continue for five years after it arrives in Australia. It is a monstrous contract. I doubt if any members of this Chamber, or of the other House, were aware of its terms, otherwise they would not have indorsed it. I thoroughly agree with all that has been said by Senators Long and Ready in connexion with the steam-ship service, and I sincerely hope that the Government ships will be used to the best advantage. I also agree with  Senator Newland  that we should establish our own agencies, and not employ agents who perhaps may not be in sympathy with this new national industry. The success of this concern will very largely depend upon sympathetic management, and if in this connexion we have agencies that prove to be unsympathetic, possibly the venture will end in disaster. I hope, therefore, that before  Ions  we shall have our own agencies established in the various ports in Australia, as well as in England and elsewhere. 
I desire to express my sympathy with the representatives from Tasmania concerning the steamer service to that. State, and I hope there will soon be a considerable improvement in the arrangements. For many months I have had control of the Commonwealth Shipping Department, and I am sure that if I could only get certain boats off the Tasmanian trade, and run them elsewhere, I should be heartily cheered in many quarters. I regret to say that unsatisfactory to Tasmania as is the service, it is quite as good as, if not "better than, the service to most of the other States. Now I want to point out that if the ships purchased by the Commonwealth' Government were placed in the coastal trade, they would be doing work at rates which are fixed by the Government, and to use a colloquialism, they would net pay axle-grease. The Government intend to use those vessels to the best commercial advantage. There is no reason why we should place them at the disposal of wheat kings, wool kings, metal kings, or any other kings of commerce at cheap rates. We intend to ask for these vessels the same freights and fares as are charged by the private companies, and not to burden the general taxpayer in order to provide cheap freights for private enterprise. The fleet will be directly controlled by the Prime Minister's Department, and as Assistant Minister I have been asked to take charge. The fear expressed by honorable senators concerning the agencies is, I think, largely a bogy, because the whole of the shi,ps will be controlled  from  the Commonwealth offices in Australia, and our main London office. The agents will have nothing whatever to do with the management, but they will be called upon to do certain work of a formal character at the different ports under Government direction. The payment of Customs duties, provisioning of the ships, coaling, and .such services, will be undertaken by the Department. So far as possible they will be worked in connexion with the Navy Department, and joint contracts for the larger services will be entered into, and, so far as .practicable, repairs will be undertaken at the Naval Dockyards. 
The agents will have nothing whatever to do with that matter. The freights outward will be looked after by the Commonwealth officers in London, and freights from this end will be directly controlled by me. 
The fifteen ships appear to be a large fleet, and the venture is really a splendid thing .for Australia, but at present it would not be advisable to establish Commonwealth agencies at coastal ports. 
lt might be possible to do that. The present arrangement is only a temporary one. It was a big undertaking to organize a new Commonwealth Department, and finality has not yet been reached in regard to details, except that the policy will be to run the ships on the best commercial principles. We shall not want any cargo agents in Australia, because all the cargo is waiting, and, therefore, no commission will be paid in respect to freights obtained from this end. I believe, as a result of this, that we shall be able to work our vessels more cheaply than any private company in Australia. I hope the day is not far distant when the fleet will be considerably increased, and when, as a result of that, there will be direct control at the larger ports. The policy has not yet been developed, and I ask honorable senators to be patient for a little while until we have an opportunity of having a Commonwealth-controlled line, even including constructional work. 
.- Some time ago a good deal of dissatisfaction was expressed concerning the carriage of mails and the delivery of letters to our soldiers at the front or in Egypt. I should like to know from the Minister representing the Postmaster-General if the complaints are as numerous to-day as they were, or if some improvement has been effected. I mention this because I had a complaint which I referred to the Minister to-day. This was in relation to a young man in Egypt. His parents had written, on an average, eight letters a month, and for six months he did not receive one. 
The complaint referred to by  Senator Guy  is one that really requires immediate investigation, and the necessary inquiries are now being made. With large numbers of men overseas, it is only to be expected that letters, addressed by people who perhaps are not acquainted with the correct method, should go astray. In one case a m,other made a complaint that her son had not received a letter for six months, but upon investigation it was found that he had been appointed an officer's orderly, and, although our troops were in Egypt, he had travelled extensively through Europe with the officer. Therefore, it would have been almost impossible in any circumstances for his letters to catch up to him. I am aware that there have been many complaints, but honorable senators will agree that during the last six months the Postal Department has re-organized the service, and placed it on a more satisfactory basis. We are always prepared to listen to genuine complaints, and, if possible, to remedy them. 
I invite the attention of the Minister * representing the PostmasterGeneral to what appears to be a new and unwarranted interference with those who issue a considerable number of circulars for the purpose of convening meetings or conferences. Hitherto it has been permissible for a person to issue circulars at the rate of fd. for twenty, providing they were taken to the Post Office and tied up, but it appears that the Department has discontinued this practice, at least so far as some people are concerned, and, as it interferes with the advocacy of taxation of land values, I want to read portion of a letter which I have received from  Mr. A.  Q.  Huie, secretary of that organization. It is as follows: - 
Would you be so  good  as to see the Honorable the Postmaster-General with reference toil serious restriction recently imposed upon the public by the Sydney General Post Office. Our latest disability, and there arc ;i number, isthe action of the postal authorities in insisting upon " letter rate " for circulars.  For  many years we have been able to send out communications of a general character if left open and marked " 20 posted " at the Jd. rate. The Department now pretends that such matter is " personal," and must pay ordinary letter rate. 
Suppose a public meeting is being arranged, and a circular is drawn up for the purpose of notifying, say, 100 people about it. It is in letter form, all typed and in identical terms. Hitherto such matter went at Jd. ; now it is pretended that it is a" " personal communication," and Id. demanded. 
Or, say, a deputation is waiting upon a Federal or State Minister. The promotors send round a typed reminder, say, any number from 20 to 100. Hitherto such a general communication went for Jd. ; now it is regarded as a " personal communication," and Id. required, as in the case of an ordinary inclosed letter, which is a ootid  fide  personal communication to a single individual. 
Or, again, say that you, in the discharge of your public duties, desire to send a letter, all typed and in identical terms, not personally signed, dealing with a public question, to a number (twenty or more) country papers. You send it as a letter " to the editor." Such a letter is in no sense personal; it is for the public, and being addressed " to the editor " is a matter of form. Yet such matter is now classed as a " personal communication," and letter rate demanded. I am at a loss why such an extraordinary pretence should be set up. 
I was at a loss to understand why the Department should insist upon this, and, in reply to a further communication,  Mr. Huie  wrote - 
You ask if the whole of the circular is typed, including the name of the writer. Yes, every letter typed. In fact, I think if it were even all printed it would make no difference. 
This is a matter that not only affects  Mr. Huie  but a very large number of electors, who for years have been able to send out twenty or more circulars at. the reduced fee, provided they were in identical terms. I would like the Postmaster-General's representative to look into the matter and see if the old order cannot be restored. 
I have listened with much interest to the statement by  Senator Grant,  and I can quite sympathize with the gentleman whose letter he has read.  Mr. A.  G. Huie is known as a prolific letter-writer, and I can quite understand how any departure from the old order would affect him. I also recognise that heretofore the privilege of sending matter through the post at much under the cost of carriage has been enjoyed by quite a large number of people at the expense of the rest of the community. Under the new system of management, the endeavour will be made to see that those who enjoy the privileges of the Postal service shall pay for it. I understand that a drastic effort is being made to turn the Postal deficit that has occurred year after year in to a surplus, and there is no hope that this particular matter will be looked into with the object of reverting to the old order of things. 
Can the Vice-President of the Executive Council give the Senate any information as to the intention of the Postal Department regarding the carriage of country newspapers? I believe some announcementhas been made of the intention to increase rates, notwithstanding that most of the country papers have been compelled to reduce their sizes on account of the cost of paper. If, in addition, the Postal Department is going to increase its charges, I am afraid that some of the country papers will be driven into oblivion. If the Government contemplate any action in this direction, the present is not an opportune time to make the change, and I would ask the Minister to say it is not the intention to touch these papers, or, at all events, that for the time being the intention will be postponed. 
The whole question of the carriage of newspapers has been submitted to arbitration. Only a small increase of rates is anticipated, but that small increase has already been complained of. There will be no difference in the treatment of country newspapers and the big city dailies. What has been happening for years is that newspapers have been carried at a cost to the Government three times greater than the amount realized by the charges that have been made. Where it has cost 6s., for instance, to carry the  Argus,  that newspaper has been called upon to pay only 2s. That kind of thing, which is one of the influences that has caused the Postal Department to be run at a loss, will have to cease. I quite understand that some of the country papers may be hit harshly in view of the prevailing high cost of paper, and I will bring the honorable senator's representations on that point under the notice of the Postmaster-General. 
Following upon the question raised by  Senator Guy,  I would like to ask the Minister for Defence, who has interested himself in this matter more than the VicePresident of the Executive Council, if he can give the Senate any information as to what is being done to insure the more regular delivery of mails to our soldiers. The fault is not with the office or the organization at this end. It is the organization at the other end - in England and France - that is responsible. I have before me now the case of an Evandale resident whose son has been at the front for several months.  His  family have written twelve to fifteen letters to hire each mail; they have cabled to him; but he has received neither letters nor cable. By this inward mail I have a letter from the soldier himself dated " Egypt, 26.7.1916." In it he says- 
It is no use my trying to write a long letter, for I cannot get the news to put in it because I have not got any letters from home. In fact, I have not got any from any one. 
I have also a letter from the father stat ing- 
Since I wrote to you, we have heard from our boy. His last letter was dated 31st July, 1916. We got seven letters from him on Friday last. Each of these had been written a week previous to the other, but all came at once. 
I am sure honorable senators have been deluged with similar complaints to this. When the Postal Corps was sent to the front, there was some improvement, but still mysterious cases like the one I have quoted occur from day to day. I hope the Minister, if he can offer any explanation, will at least make it clear that his Department and the Postal Department in Australia are doing all they can to prevent these unfortunate happenings. 
When these complaints became numerous, in the first instance we got some of the besttrained men in the Post Office and sent them to Egypt, in order that they might put things on a proper basis. This corps h as been at work for some time, and yet these complaints occur. I cannot find out the reason for them, and I am just as much puzzled as honorable senators are. 
Yes, protest after protest has been sent, but we cannot get any explanation of the cause. When  Mr. Keith  Murdoch, a prominent Melbourne journalist, was going to England, we asked him to make inquiries in Egypt and at the front - which was then Gallipoli - on this subject. In his report,  Mr. Murdoch  said that when he left Australia he was indignant at the military authorities in regard to the postal bungle. When he got to Egypt and saw the conditions there he began to feel that after all they could not expect much better results than had been achieved. But when he saw the conditions in Gallipoli he thought how unreasonable the people of Australia were to expect anything else to happen. That was the effect of  Mr. Murdoch's  report. I only wish I could put my finger on the weak spot and say " that is where the trouble is," but I cannot. 
The Minister for Defence has stated that portion of the proposed advance to the Treasurer is to be spent upon the construction of the East-West transcontinental railway, and upon works in the Northern Territory. I am not concerned at present about the works in the Northern Territory, but I am very much concerned about the way in which the transcontinental railway is being constructed . 
But I have not been approached by any person in authority on the western section, nor have any complaints been lodged with me by such persons concerning the way in which the work is being carried out. I have heard from other sources what is happening there, and, in my opinion, the time has come, if it has not long since passed, when there should be a radical alteration made in the method of carrying out this great work. On the western section there are at least four separate Departments engaged in the work; each is independent of the other, and neither acknowledges the authority of the other as superior to itself. There is a Construction Department presided over by the Constructing Engineer, and there are also a Traffic Department, a Locomotive Department, and an Accounts Department, each presided over by its respective chief. Presumably, none of these four separate Departments is concerned with the interests of the others. There are four superintendents, so to speak, employed in the construction of this railway, each running his own section of the business, and unconcerned about the interests of the other Departments so long as his own is run to advantage, and in such a way as to secure as much credit as possible for the way in which the work of his particular Department is carried out. This is quite opposed to the. practice adopted in carrying out such works in Western Australia. I do not say that this is a solid reason for seeking improvements in the method of carrying out the construction of the transcontinental railway, but if the Western Australian Government are engaged in the construction of a railway 200 miles in length, the complete control of the work is given to the Constructing Engineer and the Traffic and other subordinate Departments are placed under his charge. On the transcontinental railway each Department, as I said,  is independent of the other, and responsible only to the head in Melbourne. Honorable senators can realize the folly of carrying out the work in this way, and the amount of unnecessary work involved, when I say that there is an array of clerks employed in keeping the accounts of the four separate Departments, and if a small error occurs endless trouble is gone to to decide to which particular Department 4 1/2 d., or some other similar amount, should be credited or debited. Voluminous correspondence takes place to discover how the small mistake arose, and then at the end of it all, an order comes from Melbourne that one particular Department is to be debited or credited, as the case may be, with an amount running into hundreds of pounds. This illustration alone proves the folly of carrying on such a work in such a way. I need not mention other aspects of the present system. It goes without saying that where there are four independent authorities engaged on the- same job, there must be friction, and lack of economy. A locomotive, for instance, may, from the time it leaves the Kalgoorlie yards until it is returned, be employed upon work for each of the three separate Departments, and friction may arise as to the cost of its running to be debited to each. If the Constructing Engineer wants a locomotive he has to apply to the Chief Mechanical Engineer in charge of the Locomotive Department. The head of the Traffic Department must do the same. The Locomotive Department is charged with the responsibility of running the engines, and is expected to keep costs down to a minimum, and under the system which has been adopted there must be friction in apportioning the work of a locomotive. The construction of the line is the chief feature of the work. We want that railway pushed through, and yet  Mr. Darbyshire,  the EngineerinCharge of Construction, has no power to demand from the heads of the other Departments, which should be subordinate Departments, the facilities necessary for the economic and expeditious carrying out of the main work of construction. 
Very likely he is. He cannot order the Chief Mechanical Engineer to send out a particular engine to do certain work necessary for the construction of the line without regard to the necessities of the Traffic Department. As head of the Locomotive Department, the Chief Mechanical Engineer may tell the Engineer-in-Charge of Construction that he does not take the same view of the matter in hand, and that, consequently, the engine required will not be sent, or will only go half as far as the Engineer-in-Charge of Construction desires. 
I have said that I have received no complaints from the men in charge of the work, but I have evidence of the folly of the system to which I have already referred, namely, the great efforts which are made to apportion small sums to the credit or debit of a particular Department, whilst, at any time, an order may be received from Melbourne requiring a particular Department to accept  a  credit or a debit of hundreds of pounds. 
I have no knowledge of that; but it must be clear that the system that has been adopted leads to friction. I have said that under the State practice, if a railway, 50 to 100 miles in length, is to be constructed in Western Australia, one man is placed in supreme charge of the work, and the Traffic, Locomotive, and Accounts Departments are made subordinate to him. If we were to credit rumours, some of which are, no doubt, well founded, it would appear that an inquiry into the construction of the transcontinental railway would disclose a number of interesting details. I am referring to facts, and not to rumours, when I speak of the financial arrangements that are made. I have obtained this information from persons interested in the carrying out of this great work on lines that should reflect credit upon the Commonwealth. I do not know how the work is being done on the eastern side. 
We know that no man running a business would think of conducting it on such lines if he wanted to succeed. If he established a branch store with four independent heads, what  chance would his business have of running smoothly or economically? Big commercial businesses cannot be run in any other way. If a branch of any enterprise is established in a certain town a manager is appointed, who is given supreme control of the branch, subject only to authority from the centre. It "would never be considered right, in such a case, to appoint four independent managers, and yet that is what has been done in the case of the transcontinental railway. The _ matter is one which should ^engage the immediate attention of the Government, not merely for the purpose of stopping whatever want of economy has been in evidence up to date, Hut for the purpose of placing the construction of that line on a proper business footing. At present it is not upon such a footing. It is far from it, as is shown by the information which has been supplied to me first hand, and as to the genuineness of which I have not the slightest doubt. 
.- The Minister who is in charge of the construction of this line occupies a seat in another place. If  Senator Lynch  will supply me with a copy of his remarKs I will see that they are brought under the Minister's notice. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Postponed clause 2 agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without request; report adopted. 
Motion (by  Senator Pearce)  proposed - 
That this Bill bc now read a third time. 
.- I desire to call the attention of the Government to a matter upon which I had intended to speak when the Bill was in Committee. Unfortunately, I was prevented from doing so by being unavoidably absent from the chamber.  Lt  has been the experience, I believe, of nearly every honorable senator to have recently had brought under his notice the position that is occupied by old-age and invalided pensioners. Owing to the large increase in the cost of living, it is notorious that many of these pensioners experience the greatest difficulty in eking  out an existence, even though they may be in receipt of the full pension of 10s. per week. During my recent travels through Tasmania I was told of a great number of such cases. The pensioners were pointed out to me by persons who knew of their circumstances. Owing to the fact that a sovereign to-day will purchase only as  much  as 13s. would purchase a few years ago, many old-age and invalid pensioners are scarcely able to secure the means of subsistence. Of course, I recognise that we are at war, and that all our funds are required for the successful prosecution of the war. But, nevertheless, I hope that the Government will consider the  advisableness  of granting a small increase to old-age and invalid pensioners in order that they may at least live through this great crisis. 
I would point out to the honorable senator that ample opportunity was afforded him to discuss this question, and, indeed, all other questions, not only on the motion for the first reading of the Bill, but on the motion for its second reading, and also in Committee. The debate on the motion for the third reading of a measure is usually limited to advancing reasons why the principle which it affirms is unsound, and why the Bill should not be passed. The honorable senator is now discussing details of administration, which are not a proper subject for debate on the motion for the third reading of a Bill, unless he proposes to advance reasons why the Bill should not be allowed to pass at all. 

 Sir, 

Will you, for the  sake  of the many who are depending wholly on the old-age and invalid pensions, do all you can to get the 2s. 6d. additional ? 
The honorable senator is now endeavouring to evade my ruling. 
I can assure you that I have not the remotest intention of doing so. I merely wish to say that upon five of the necessaries of life a pensioner in Launceston has been expending 9s. Id. per week, which leaves him with absolutely nothing for the purchase of clothing and other necessities. I do hope that the Government will take into consideration the necessity of doing something to help triose who are unable to help themselves. 
 In reply to the honorable senator's remarks, I wish to say that the question of old-age and invalid pensions is at present under the consideration of the Government, and we hope to make an announcement of our decision in respect to it shortly. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
move - 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until 3 p.m. to-morrow. 
Probably by that time we shall have some indication as to whether there will be business for us to proceed with on Tuesday next. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Will the Assistant Minister say whether it is a fact, as announced in this morning's newspapers, that a Marine Superintendent has been appointed for the Commonwealth fleet of steam-ships? 
Yes; the announcement is perfectly correct. 
The appointment is quite a temporary one, for on month only. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs cause to he laid on the table of the Senate all papers relating to the employment of  Mr. C.  E. Oliver to report on the sanitary systems of the Federal Capital? 
I understand that if the papers were laid on the table of the Senate they would become the property of the Senate. I can undertake to have them laid on the table of the Library. 
In view of the widespread belief that those who are opposed to conscription will not, during the referendum campaign, be given a fair opportunity to express their views, because of the instructions given to the censors, I should like the Minister for Defence to say whether opponents of conscription may rest assured that the fullest possible opportunity will be given them to carry on their campaign in the event of the passing of the Military Service Referendum Bill? 
Subject to certain rules which have been laid down, yes. 
I move - 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till 3 p.m. on Thursday next. 
I understand that it is expected that the Military Service Referendum Bill will pass in another place on Wednesday next, and I ask honorable senators to come on 
Thursday prepared to go right on with that Bill. They are aware of its purport and contents, and I hope I shall get the consent. of the Senate to the adoption of that course. 
I meat that we should take the first and second readings stages on Thursday; in other words, that on that day we should go on with the second-reading debate. 
I hope that it will not be necessary to have a late sitting. Following the ordinary course it would be possible only to take the formal stage of the first reading of the Bill on Thursday, and I am therefore asking honorable senators to come prepared to go on with the second-reading debate on that day. If necessary, it may be extended to the following day. In view of the large amount of machinery to be provided in connexion with the Bill, and in view of the fact that we must have the authority of the Bill to put some of that machinery into operation, it is the desire of the Government to have the Bill passed next week, if possible. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
What is the number of men who have offered themselves for military service and been rejected? 
What number have enlisted and afterwards been rejected as medically unfit? 
This information is being prepared, and will be furnished as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Whether any news concerning Irish affairs has been censored- 
If so, to what extent and for how long? 
The answers are- 
News concerning Irish affairs has received the same censorship treatment as that of any other subject. Objectionable portions have been deleted in only a few cases in both inward and outward messages. 
Thewords deleted formed a very small part of the messages, and they were permanently held, as they contravened censorship regulations. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is he aware that the Censor has instructed country newspapers that they must not only observe regulations but must submit articles to him before printing? 
Will he take steps to alter the sending of matter to Melbourne, or appoint censors in the country? 
The answers are - 
Such an instruction, extending to conscription only, was issued by the Melbourne Censor. I was not aware of this till yesterday, and its withdrawal was at once ordered. The Censor explains that he intended that this instruction should be read in conjunction with those previously issued by him, to the effect that only matter in respect of which editors were in doubt need be submitted. There was no authority from this office to issue the order. 
News is not submitted for censorship to Melbourne except when editors are desirous of obtaining the opinion of the Censor in regard to doubtful matter. 
I think it would be a very great convenience to honorable senators if the Minister for Defence would make available copies of the instructions that have been issued to censors in order that everybody might see exactly where he stands in regard to those instructions. 
 I have already informed honorable senators that they can see those instructions at any time. I take.it that they are chiefly concerned with the instructions which have been issued to the censors in regard to the forthcoming referendum  campaign. That being so, I will see that a copy of the instructions now in force is sent to each member of this Parliament. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I should like to ask the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral if his attention has been drawn to the statement made by  Mr. Jus:  tice Powers, in giving his award in connexion with the Post and Telegraph Officers Association recently, that single men employed in the department should enlist? Is it part of the powers or duties of a Judge to make such a remark when giving an award in regard to an industrial dispute? 
I ask the honorable senator to give notice of the question. The full report of the statement and judgment by  Mr. Justice  Powers will be laid upon the table of the Senate. 
Do the Government proposals in regard to the soldiers' separation allowance apply to every soldier? A private receives 6s. per day, and I desire to know if it is proposed that his pay and allowances shall be capable of reaching a maximum of 10s. per day? 
The separation allowance is paid only to the wife and family of a soldier. Therefore it obviously is not paid to every soldier. The payment depends on his having a wife and children, so much per day being allowed to the wife and so much for each child. The maximum payment which a private may receive, including the separation allowance, is 10s. per day, 
A separation allowance is not payable to anybody receiving more than 10s. per day. 
The proposals of the Government for calling up men for service provide that the only son of a family shall not be called upon for service. Does that provision apply merely to families who are dependent on such only sons, and not to the only son of a family who is in. position to allow him to serve his country ? Does the provision apply in every case whether the family is dependent or not on the only son? 
The cost was £42,953. 
ADJOURNMENT (Formed) 
Censorship. 
I have received  an intimation from  Senator Ferricks  that he desires to move the adjournment of the Senate for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent public importance, namely, "the press and other censorship being exercised at the present time." 

 Four honorable senators having risen in their places, 

.- I move- 
That the Senate, at its rising,  adjourn until  Monday next at 11  a.m. 
That the object of my motion is one of great public and urgent importance has been brought home during the last few weeks to those who have the honour of being members of this Chamber and another place. The extent to which despotism can rule in a freedom-loving country like Australia has also been made apparent. I charge the Prime Minister with being responsible for this state of affairs. He has  created a  position which is unique in the history of the world. I do not think that in any other country, even in Germany or Russia, a newspaper or periodical is prevented from indicating that portion of its articles has been censored. Those who have been looking into this question are fully seised of the length to which the Prime Minister has gone. I need only refer to his actions in connexion with his communications with and addresses to Labour leagues in Australia. He went to Sydney last week and laid before the executive Labour body of New South Wales his proposals in regard to conscription in Australia, but that body, after having heard the whole of his statements, turned down his proposals by a vote of twenty-three to five. It followed action that was taken by the central executive body in Victoria, which, I understand; turned down the proposals unanimously. But nothing was allowed to appear in the press in regard to either of those decisions. The matter was censored. 
Pressmen told me that they had the information and were not allowed to use it. They came to me and asked what had occurred, and when I told them I did not know they said, " That is all right, we know all about it; but we cannot use it for publication." 
SenatorFERRICKS.- I cannot speak as to that, but I can assure the honorable senator that after the  Argus  had received and published the official manifesto issued by the Labour Congress in Melbourne the manifesto itself was censored. And when the Trades and Labour Council in Sydney, at its conference, held in the first week of this month, turned down  Mr. Hughes  and his proposals by 116 votes to 60- virtually by a majority of two to one - nothing as to that appeared in the press. 
SenatorFERRICKS. - I do not think that the honorable senator could have seen it until within the last few days. 
-It did not appear in the press during the week in which the conference was held. It did not appear in any of the Sydney papers. Reverting to the conference between  Mr. 
Hughes and Labour leagues, there was a change of venue to Adelaide, where the Prime Minister, by what I consider a trick on the part of the Premier of South Australia, received a certain portion of endorsement of his policy. Mr.Vaughan combined a motion expressing confidence in the Commonwealth Government with a vote of thanks to  Mr. Hughes  for his address. 
SenatorFERRICKS.-  Mr. Blackburn  had as much right to represent the shearers as the Prime Minister has to represent wharf labourers. 
SenatorFERRICKS.- Publication of the shandygaff motion passed in Adelaide was allowed by the censor, but a motion that was passed at the same conference, almost in the same breath, and by a majority of twenty, to the effect, "That while this conference approves of the principles of the referendum, it is totally opposed to the conscription of human life," was refused publication. 
SenatorFERRICKS. - At any rate the motion to which I refer did not appear in the Adelaide papers. The Prime Minister took it upon himself to give an authorized statement, but it made no reference to the second motion, except to say that another motion, the wording of which was not given, had been adopted. 
SenatorFERRICKS.- I do not admit that it is unfounded. It is true that  Mr. Hughes  did make reference to the motion in his statement to the press. As I have a limited time at my disposal I appeal to honorable senators to allow me to proceed with my statement. 
I wish to refer now to the censorship exercised in regard to telegrams. On this subject I have been in communication with  Mr. Arch.  Stewart, secretary to the Political Labour Council of Victoria. I have a letter which he wrote to me on the 13th September, but the date might just as well be the 21st September, because I communicated with him to-day by telephone, and asked him whether the conditions set forth in his letter were still in existence to-day, and he replied that no alteration had taken place.  His  letter addressed to me is as follows - 
The following is a lettergram sent by the secretary of the New South Wales Political Labour League,  Mr. P.  C. Evans, on 30th August, 1916, but up to date it has not reached this office. The lettergram reads as follows: - "New South Wales executive to-night re-affirm conference decision to oppose conscription of human life for service abroad." 
That lettergram has not been delivered. 
SenatorFERRICKS. - The excuse offered by the Minister is a very poor one. To show that this was not an isolated case.  Mr. Stewart's  letter goes on to say - 
The following telegram was sent to me by  Mr. E.  Grayndler, general secretary, A.W.U., on the 28th August, 1916, but has not reached this office to date: - "Urgent telegram. In name of Labour movement ask you to urge members to stand firm against conscription at all cost; agree to nothing affecting the workers without first placing the position before State executive. See Barnes and others. - Grayndler." While in Sydney last week, I drew the attention of the Prime Minister, at the Trades Hall meeting, to the fact that the above lettergram and telegram had been sent to me, but had not reached their destination, and he then promised that, on arrival in Melbourne, he would make inquiries. Up to date I have received no communication from him. 
Why has not  Mr. Stewart  been communicated with to that effect? 
It is very peculiar that these telegraphic communications passing between a responsible Labour body in one State and a similar body in another State should each be mislaid. 
I do not think that there is anything in the two messages that I have read detrimental to the cause of the Allies or detrimental to the interests of Australia, or of use to the enemy. On the 9th September I sent the following telegram from Adelaide to  Mr. Dan  Green, at the Central Hotel, Bourkestreet, Melbourne: - 
Conference very mixed up. Vaughan's motion, combining thanks confidence, carried 124 to 100. Later motion affirming principles referendum, but totally opposing conscription human life, carried by twenty votes. Neither Blackburn nor I had a say. Blackburn's credentials turned down by twelve votes. Leaving to-day. Regards. - Ferricks. 
Is there anything in that telegram that is vital to the question of conscription? Yet it has not been delivered because I referred to the actions of the Adelaide Conference. 
The telegram has not yet been delivered. 
To show that there is some wonderful coincidence inregard to these telegrams, here is another that was despatched from Melbourne on 29th August to  Mr. Grayndler,  in Sydney - 
Urgent reasons why you should be here protect A.W.U. interests this crisis. - Dan Green. 
It dealt with a purely political matter, and was entirely unconnected with the war or conscription, or with anything appertaining to either. I challenge the Minister for Defence, who represents the 
Prime Minister, or any  one who may agree with him, to rise in this Chamber and defend such a condition of affairs in our so-called free Australia. 
Because the Minister or his leader cannot do so. This telegram did not arrive at its destination.  Mr. Grayndler  reached Melbourne to-day, and we are informed that all the communications of the general secretary of the Australian Workers Union in Sydney, and of the Australian Workers Union secretary in Brisbane, are subject to the bann of the censorship. We know that in Melbourne the telephone wires connecting the Exchange with the Trades Hall have been tapped, and that a military lieutenant, assisted by a shorthand typist, has been set to this task. The remarkable thing is that all these precautions are taken against Labour bodies. I have no intention of putting up with them. I am not prepared to accept the assurances of  Mr. Hughes  or his Government that both sides will obtain a fair deal on the conscription campaign. 
I have never had too much faith in the assurances we have had at various times from  Mr. Hughes.  Many of them have not been carried out. Yesterday I received from Queensland a telegram in regard to some speeches delivered in the State House against the imposition of conscription. One speech was delivered by  Mr. Collins,  the member for Bowen. My colleagues from Queensland will agree with me that  Mr. Collins  is one of the pioneers of the Labour movement in that Stale. In the Queensland  Hansard,  No. 3, of the current session, page 203, he is reported as having referred to the Victorian railways strike, and as having used these words - 
Who arc the people here (in Australia) who have been continually urging on us since the war started to go in for conscription?  Sir William  Irvine was one. Who is he? He was at one time Premier of the State of Victoria, and he blocked the big railway strike, and did all he could to injure the working classes. This is the man who is advocating conscription. 
It cannot be said that that statement has any bearing on the war or upon the defence of the Commonwealth. Yet a portion of it has been excised by the censor. According to the telegram I received from  Mr. Collins,  the reference to  Sir William  Irvine having done all he could to injure the working classes has been struck out. The telegram also states - " Reference to Hughes struck out ; also portion reference to Ireland, and portion reference Russia, struck out." Will any sane man in Victoria say that during the great railway strike  Sir William  Irvine did not injure the working classes? I do not hesitate to say that he did, yet that statement of fact was excised. 
No, but out of a report of his speech published in pamphlet form for distribution.  Mr. Collins  says that he desired to have his speech, as reported in  Hansard,  reprinted by the Government Printing Office, and that these statements were cut out of it.  Mr. Collins  is not an Irishman, but an Englishman. He has a son fighting at the front, but because he referred, in the course of his speech, to the situation in Ireland, and made some reference to Russia, the censor exercised the stupid and dangerous powers conferred upon him by the Prime Minister of the Commonwealth to excise these statements. This is an intolerable state of affairs. If the referendum campaign is not conducted on different lines, then I fear very much for the peace and good government of the Commonwealth. If our people cannot get a fair deal in respect to our boasted freedom of the press of Australia, then they are going to take such action as will prevent others from taking action. 
I wish I could view as light-heartedly as the honorable senator appears to do the impending industrial troubles of Australia. The Conservative press of the Commonwealth, including the Melbourne  Argus  and the Brisbane  Courier,  have not learned the despicable art of suppression to such an extent as the so-called Labour Prime Minister,  Mr. Hughes,  has done. The instructions issued to censors were read in  another place this morning by  Mr. Finlayson.  They specifically set out that nothing must be printed or published that might be an affront to  Mr. Hughes. 
The honorable senator has his own view of this matter, but let me give him the views of several who have written to me with regard to it. 
They were read in another place this morning, and  Senator Pearce  was in the gallery at the time. 
Like  Mr. Hughes,  the honorable senator merely wants to know what suits his own purpose. 
No matter to what extremes I might go. I would never go as far as  Mr. Hughes  has in this policy of suppression. 
I shall not do so, because I do not think he is responsible. I do not think he knows what is going on. He was not aware that, because the Sydney  Sun  of the 6th September last published a report of the Sydney Trades and Labour Council of which  Mr. Hughes  did not approve, together with an addendum stating that he intended to remain in Sydney that night, the Prime Minister threatened to close it down unless an apology was published. Further, the Minister for Defence was not aware that the Inter-State parcels of the Sydney  Sun  containing that report were commandeered on reaching Melbourne and Brisbane. He was not responsible for that The responsibility rested with  Mr. Hughes.  I know that  Senator Pearce  has no more control over these matters than I have. 
We all know what elaborate preparations have been made for conducting the referendum campaign in the interests of the conscriptionists. I propose to make a quotation from a letter which I have received, and while ] shall refrain from giving the name of the writer, I will show it to the Minister for Defence privately as a guarantee of my  bona fides.  The writer of this letter says: - 
Dear  Sir, -  I wish to bring under your notice the whole of the plan which W. M. Hughes is going to foist upon the Commonwealth to mislead and "gag" the people by means of the coming press campaign.  Mr.- of  a Sydney paper, he is sending to Melbourne to direct affairs, at nothing a week, you can bet.  Mr.-- ,  of Sydney, has been engaged at £10 per week to look after New South Wales - mainly the provincial papers.  His  office is to be on the sixth floor of the Commonwealth Bank, and to have a staff. These men are being lent by their employers until after the plebiscite. I have seen the whole of the secret instructions. They are to be in daily touch with Hughes, and keep him posted by press cuttings and wires. Pro-conscription copy is to be sent to every paper in Australia daily. The larger provincials and dailies are to have special matter. Women's votes are to be specially appealed to. The campaign speakers are to be boomed in advance of their visits. The more important papers " may be induced to publish the articles." Pictorial papers are to be well catered for. 
That was the question which Captain Toombs recently addressed to  Mr. Holman  in the New South Wales Parliament.  Mr. Holman  said it was a purely Federal matter. We are anxious to know why  Mr. "  Blank," who arrived here about fourteen days ago- 
We all know he is here, and that, as my friend put it, he is receiving " nothing a week, you can bet." As a leading journalist his income would probably be between £800 and £1,000 a year. 
Are the conscriptionists providing out of their own pockets for all these expenses ? My correspondent goes on to say that these articles, after the issue of the writ - will be signed by apparently disinterested pressmen, who are in theemploy of the Commonwealth. A special deposit is to be lodged in the banks at the respective capitals for the press agents to " work upon." Salary to start from 11th inst. Please wire if this reaches you safely, and oblige. 
Like the honorable senator, I have had a little experience as a country " ink-slinger," and I believe that pressmen, like all other men, will take advantage of the best opportunities that are offering. The conscription campaign is to be financed out of the Consolidated Revenue, while the anticonscription campaign, after much cajoling and coercion, extending over a period of about twelve months, is, according to  Mr. Hughes,  to be allowed ' ' freedom of speech." That freedom will exist, however, only on the surface. We know what has happened when there has been any genuine opportunity to prove the worth of the right honorable gentleman's assurance. If the position is not altered I, for one, fear the result. We know that cartoons have also been censored. Cartoons that have been passed in New South Wales have been censored in Victoria, and others which appeared in the Brisbane weekly newspapers have not been allowed to appear in the Sydney press. I appreciate the situation in this respect. I do not expect uniformity of action on the part of the respective censors. Uniformity may not be possible where every one is trying to go his own road, but a definite policy should be laid down with the object of securing something approaching uniformity. The Brisbane newspapers have loyally abided by the dictates of the censors, but recently, I believe, some trouble has arisen because instructions are being rained down upon them to such an extent that the" newspaper authorities are coming to the conclusion that it is futile to endeavour to act in accordance with them. Cartoons have been censored that have had no bearing on any phase of the war, but which have simply referred to  Mr. Hughes.  They have referred to him as the Prime Minister, and as a public man, who should not resent public criticism. 
Prior to this, I do not think that  Mr. Hughes  ever objected to being caricatured. When the famous full- page caricature of the Prime 
Minister appeared in the  Bulletin  - a cartoon in which he was depicted going abroad blowing up his balloon, and returning with the balloon burst, and Hughes burst with it - he was highly enraged, and told the censor concerned that it should not have been passed. 
I think it was an excellent cartoon. The  deputy  censors have said to artists who have waited upon them with cartoons, " It is no good, these cartoons will not be published; they are a personal affront to  Mr. Hughes,  and cannot therefore be allowed."  Colonel McColl,  who, I believe, is the chief censor in Victoria, indorsed the sentiments, of his sub-censors, and when an appeal was made to the Minister for Defence, that honorable senator would not even listen to it or look at the cartoons concerned. He refused to do so, because he knew that they concerned the Prime Minister. He knew what his authority was worth where any matter affecting the Prime Minister was concerned. Another cartoon which was censored was entitled " Fat's Dummy." In this  Mr. Hughes  was depicted as a ventriloquist's dummy, manipulated by a typical capitalist. There was no reference in it to the war. Why should such a cartoon be turned down  1  Still another cartoon, entitled " The Traitor," founded on the picture of the same name in the National Gallery, and which depicted  Mr. Hughes  being denounced by honorable members of both Houses of Parliament, was likewise censored. We have reached a state of despotism such as was never before conceived as possible in Australia. As I stated last night,  Mr. Hughes,  during the last month or so, has by his suppression of free speech, easily out-iceberged  Irvine. Unless the Government take such action as will show that they recognise the seriousness of the position, I fear that the friendly feeling which has for so many years characterized our inward life will not oe continued. A great discrepancy has occurred between the actions of censors, not only within the same State, bat within the same town. I know of one instance where a remark or part of a speech was excised by the censor when it was presented for publication in the  Daily Standard,  Brisbane, on 4th August. 
I am rather glad that the motion has been submitted, because it gives me an opportunity to say something in regard to the censorship.  Senator Ferricks  to-day has made some very wild and whirling statements, many of which, I am confident, will prove on investigation to be just about as well ' founded as his allegations in regard to the resolutions in Adelaide. 
It is a fact that there is a censorship; and every country which is at war makes a censorship one of its war preparations. Surely we are not children that we should be expected to believe that our enemies are all in enemy countries. We have enemy spies and traitors here who would sell this country and hand it over to the Germans to-morrow if they could. Any country which loses sight of such facts and dangers, is foolish, and stands unarmed before its enemies; and it is, therefore, our duty to see that the press,, and the facilities for passing communications through the country or from the country, should not be made use of for enemy purposes.  Senator Ferricks  has spoken to-day as if there were no such thing as war - as if we were at peace. The indignation shown, based on what I know it to be based, would be quite legitimate if we were at peace ; but we cannot lose sight of the fact that we are at war. If the enemy within our gates - hostile to us and the Empire, and to the cause of the Allies - can use our press our post-office, our telegraphic service, and all similar means, for the prosecution of the German cause, we might as well allow the German soldier here, and leave the German spy and the paid agent with full opportunity to advocate the cause of their country. 
I shall come to that all in good time. I know that the honorable senator does not desire to hear too much about this phase of the question, but I must deal with it. It is a phase that honorable senators constantly lose sight of, and they speak as if we had no war and no enemies - as if German money were not being spent in America to poison the minds of the people there against Great Britain, in the same way as she is prepared to spend money here for a similar purpose.  I  know that Germany is prepared to do such work, and that money has been spent, and  is being  spent, here witu that object. 
No. 
My inference  is  that, knowing the enemy will do this, we have to exercise such censorship as  will  prevent it- -that is the inference and no other. This, I say, is  done  by every country that has an enemy and is at war.  I  quite agree that the censorship regulations should have regard to the due liberty of the press and freedom of speech - that the rules should always be governed by the main consideration thatthey are aimed at the enemy and not at our own people and our own institu:tions. It is obvious that no matter how these rules may be drawn up they have to be administered bv human beings; and there must be from time to time faulty administration. But while, as  I  say, the censorship is aimed at the enemy we must realize that the enemy will use all available channels of communication if he has the opportunity. Further, there is always a number of misguided individuals who are not enemies, but who, many of them, have  a  "bee in their bonnet," or are fanatics of one kind and another, with particular fads or fancies which bring them within the censorship regulations. Such people, if not regulated, will unconsciously - not with malice aforethought, but in pursuance of their particular fad or fancy - actually play the  game  of the enemy. It is a fact that a nation at war has to rely very largely on public opinion; and the more democratic a nation is, the more reliance there is on that influence. Therefore, an enemy who has to deal with a country on a different political status - it may be democratic, or approaching the autocratic - seeks to disunite the people with a view to harassing their power of offensive, and one method is the influencing of public opinion. If given the opportunity, such an enemy will disseminate facts, fancies, or statements which will have the effect of disrupting public  opinion, and causing dissension and disunion. 
I am absolutely sure there is. 
I take it that  Senator Barnes  asked the question with a view to obtaining some information, and I can tell him that this much-abused censor has already held up a circular issued this year- from Berlin to the German press representatives in* Australia. That circular informed these representatives how they could affect public opinion in this country in order to defeat the results of the Paris Economic Conference resolutions. 
They are not; they are safely in a certain place. 
Long ago, and the document I have mentioned is in our possession. I think these facts ought to prove convincing to  Senator Ferricks  and others. 
We cannot be sure that we have got all the instructions that have been issued to such representatives in Australia, or that we have got all the representatives; but what I have said has been done. One way of interfering with the conduct of the war is to create dissension as to the objects of the war, and the censorship has to be directed to  prevent  that. Let us remember what happened when our Forces were being sent overseas at an earlier period of the conflict. There was a time when these seas were not clear of enemy shins, and the public were keen to know when the transports in which their friends and relatives were would leave our shores. In that case we had to interfere with the freedom of the press. 
No, but there was objection to other Government action that was quite as justifiable. Indeed, objection was raised to the action of the Government in regard to the transports, and I have some of the criticism in my office at this moment. There is no doubt that there were many people who objected to the Government preventing the announcement of the time and place of the departure of the transports. But the public did not know what we knew, namely, that German vessels were within striking distance. To the public the Government action looked foolish; that is, it appeared foolish not to allow people to know the date of departure, and to see their friends off to the war. As I say, we knew that the German fleet was then in striking distance of Port Melbourne. 
No; but it is not long since a German raider got into the Atlantic, and attacked and sunk a number of merchant ships, though the fact was not known generally until captured vessels began to arrive at New York and elsewhere. Government action, such as I have described, has very often to be taken for the protection of our own people, and it ' all means interference with the freedom of the press and with the liberty of the subject, though, of course, in a perfectly justifiable manner. 
Conceivably it may. A Government is charged with the responsibility of conducting the war. If some private citizens form the opinion that the war should not be carried on, and they begin a conspiracy to prevent the Government carrying it on, is the Government to sit back and allow those people to use the postal and telegraph services to further their own ends? If so, that is not my conception of government. I believe that a Government in possession of these benches has a right to conduct a war in the way it thinks best for the country. 
The honorable senator has enumerated so many that I should like to inquire into some of them  of which I have now heard for the first time. It seems remarkable that the honorable senator should have had these facts in his possession all this time and not have brought them under my notice. The honorable senator has said that the two resolutions at Adelaide were not published, but in the  Age  of 11th September I find a full report of the Adelaide Conference, including both resolutions. 
 Senator Ferricks  made another allegation which is not correct. He said that a Labour manifesto, the publication of which was prevented, had been published by the  Argus. 
In effect ; but the honorable senator is inaccurate. The publication in the  Argus  was also censored ; it was not a full report of the manifesto. The  Argus  was supplied by somebody belonging to the national executive of the Anti-Conscription Conference with a copy of the manifesto, and it was submitted by the  Argus  to the censor. That official cut out certain portions, and sent it to the Deputy Chief Censor for confirmation. Next morning the  Argus  came out with the portions censored - not the whole manifesto, as  Senator Ferricks  would have us believe. The  Deputy  Chief Censor brought the manifesto to me to ascertain whether he was right in censoring it, and I told him that he was, and that he had to censor some more. I do not blame the censor, but take the full responsibility myself. That is how it came about that the manifesto was censored to a greater extent than was the  Argus  publication. 
They said a lot of things that I shall not advertise by repeating here. Now as to the allegations regarding the holding up of telegrams.  Mr. Grayndler  complained to  Mr. Hughes  that certain telegrams were held up. The Prime Minister communicated the facts to me. There was one allegation that a telegram to  Mr. John  MacNeil, the Secretary to the Australian Workers' Union at Ballarat, was held up. It concerned a number of men working in the Ballarat district.  Mr. Grayndler  told the Prime Minister that it was held up by the censor. I made a full investigation into the matter, and found that the censor never saw the telegram in question. It was mislaid in some way in the telegraphoffice, and the authorities there have not yet been able to discover how it was mislaid. I made full inquiries into the allegation that the telegrams were held up by the censor, and I found that only one telegram was held up in that way. I do not propose to make that telegram public, but I am prepared to tell any member of the Senate what it contains, and I venture to say that when he hears it he will agree that the censor was justified in holding up that telegram until he found out what was meant by it, because as worded it was open to a very dubious construction. 
I am not sure, but Ifeel certain that  Mr. Grayndler,  upon considering the construction of the telegram would agree that it is open to  a  peculiar interpretation. 
Upon reconsideration, I think that  Mr. Grayndler  did not send this telegram, but that it was sent to him. It was the only one that I could find that was held up. 
Yes, I am prepared to let  Senator Ferricks  or any other member of the Senate see it. 
I do not know anything about them. 
This is the first time I have heard the allegation that such telegrams have been held up, and I shall make inquiries into it. I did hear that  Mr. Grayndler  had complained that telegrams which he received or sent were held up, and upon inquiry I could only find the one to which I have referred, and  which the censor was justified in holding up until he knew what was meant by it. 
In view of the fact that while it was alleged that a telegram sent to  Mr. MacNeil  was held up by the censor, and investigations proved that it was not, I am not prepared, without inquiry, to admit that the other telegrams which have been referred to by  Senator Ferricks  were held up by the censor. 
If they were, it was certainly not justified.  Senator Ferricks  has referred to the censorship of a speech made by  Mr. Collins  in the Queensland Parliament. It was not its publication in the Queensland  Hansard  that was censored, but a reprint of it from that  Hansard.  The honorable senator has said that some portion of the speech, referring to  Sir William  Irvinewas censored. The censorship of that speech was shown to me and I never saw any reference to  Sir William  Irvine struck out; but there were references to Ireland, England the Government of Great Britain, and Russia struck out and with my approval. 
I did. The portions of the speech which I saw censored contained no references to  Sir William  Irvine. I should say that there was no need to censor such references, but I repeat that I approve of the censorship of the references to Ireland, England, the Government of Great Britain, and Russia, The mere fact that these references were contained in a speech delivered in Parliament constituted no reason why they should receive different treatment from any other statements. 
I suppose that the Victorian  School Paper  was believed to be of so harmless a nature that no demand was made for its submission to the censor. I frankly admit that there will be differences in the administration of the censorship, because we have six censors one in each State, with a staff for each. They have the same set ofrules, but these may, in the circumstances, be given a different interpretation. There have been shoals of instructions issued, withdrawn or amended, from time to time as the nature of the war has changed. For instance, what it was absolutely essential should be censored when we had German ships on our coast would not be in the same category now. Any one who is prepared to consider the question dispassionately, will admit that, a few months ago the war, so far as Australia is concerned, became more tinged with political colour than it had previously been since its commencement. As the censorship must change to meet the varying circumstances of the war, it has naturally become more important to have regard to political statements and conditions during the past few months than at any other period during the war. I know that this has caused much of the dissatisfaction and criticism which has found expression from time to time. I want to tell honorable senators now exactly what is the present position as regards censorship. These are practically the. whole of the instructions now in existence with regard to the censorship - 
The publication of arguments, resolutions, and motions, &amp;c, for and against conscription and the referendum, and adverse criticism or support of the Government's policy, is to be freely allowed, provided that the publication of such matter - 
Does not reflect on and is not offensive  to Great Britain or any of our Allies. 
Does not incite to the breach of any Federal or State law or to any sort of strike. 
Would not be a contravention of any of the provisions of the War Precautions Acts and the regulations made thereunder. 
The honorable senator is quite mistaken, because the paragraph has not the bearing which he thinks it has. The instructions continue - 
Generally allow greatest freedom and latitude of expression and publication to the press, especially with regard to statements that are capable of easy contradiction, explanation, or disproof. 
Cartoons should be dealt with in accordance with the spirit of the above instructions. 
Referring now to paragraph c, what it means is that persons are not allowed to do through the press what they are not allowed to do in any other way. What I mean is that the War Precautions Act, for instance, forbids trading with the enemy, and paragraph c means that a person is not allowed through the press to advertise enemy goods or to assist in trading with the enemy. The War Precautions Act forbids certain things which have no connexion with the Military Service Referendum Bill, or the proposed referendum, but are connected with dealings with the enemy. If paragraphs  a  and  b  stood by themselves, the censor would not have the power to prevent what he now has the power to prevent, namely, the use of the press to defeat the provisions of the War Precautions Act. On the subject of the Military Service Referendum Bill, and the referendum campaign, there are only two instructions operative, and these are contained in paragraphs  a  and  b.  Paragraph c has no reference to the referendum campaign, but refers generally to dealing with the war, and its limitations have existed throughout with little or no objection. In paragraph 6, there is a reference to a "strike," but what is meant is not a strike for industrial purposes, but a strike for the purpose of dealing with the referendum campaign. Paragraphs  a  and  b  are the rules applying to the campaign, and under them the censor is forbidden to allow the publication of incitements to strike for the purpose of defeating the operation of the Military Service Referendum Bill, and the object of the Government, which would, in any case, be illegal as a breach of the Arbitration law. These are the instructions now sent throughout Australia, and upon which the Government propose to stand during the referendum campaign. I venture to say that any one who desires to fight the question honestly without interference and with full freedom will be able to do so under these instructions. Why should it be necessary, in order to fight out this question, to insult or offend any of our Allies, or to incite or suggest a breach of the law? Apart from these limitations, there will be freedom in the conduct ofthe campaign. No reasonable man would ask for more. No member of the Senate would suggest that theAllies, who are fighting with us to maintain our freedom as well as their own, should, by those advocating or opposing conscription, be subjected to offensive or insulting references. There is surely sufficient for argument in the merits of compulsory service or its demerits without recourse to that kind of thing. 
I give the Senate that assurance. I shall have inquiries made. The telegrams to which  Senator Ferricks  . has referred were not stopped within my knowledge and I shall find out whether they were stopped, and if they were, under what conditions, and by what authority. 
Certainly not. If it is found that any one has acted in defiance or in excess of the instructions, he will be dealt with. 
I think it necessary to put  Senator Ferricks  right upon one point. He said that a resolution had been carried at the Adelaide Conference by means of a trick by the Premier of South Australia. I do not think that statement should go unchallenged. As a duly accredited delegate to the Conference, the Premier of South Australia had as much right to move any resolution he pleased as had any other member of the Conference. If there is one gentleman in this country who ought to leave the Adelaide Conference alone, he is  Senator Ferricks. 
I think so. 
Order! That matter is not under discussion. 
The honorable senator will remember that I prevented  Senator Ferricks  from dealing with the matter. 
That this conference supports the taking of the referendum, but is opposed to the conscription of human life. 
Another Adelaide newspaper, the  Advertiser,  of the same .date, contains a long article from its Melbourne correspondent. I understand that no papers, except the Labour journal, were represented there, so this information in the  Advertiser  must have been obtained from some other channel than was contemplated by the Labour people in South Australia. The  Advertiser  states that two resolutions were carried at the Adelaide Conference, one being to the following effect : - 
That this conference expresses its confidence in the Prime Minister and the Federal Labour Government. 
That this conference approves of the referendum, but is opposed to the conscription of human life. 
I .have no desire to contribute lengthily to this debate, but I want to bring under the notice of the Minister for Defence an instance in which the censor erred in the opposite direction. Some time ago the Fremantle Trades Hall Association had a notice of motion on its agenda-paper calling a general strike in the event of conscription being put into operation. That notice of motion was published widely, in spite of the censor, and in course of time the Association discussed the motion, which was defeated by thirty-five votes to five; but, strange to say, no notice was then taken of it, although representatives of the press were present. My feeling is that if we brought down the archangels from Heaven to preside over the censorship to-day, they would not please everybody. I am only sorry that there has not been a closer censorship over events that have happened within our party, because very accurate reports have appeared concerning the secret Labour Caucus. God help the secrecy of the Caucus if that is what happens. 
I am aware,  Mr. President,  that I am transgressing, but then there are faults on every side, and I think that if those who are strongly advocating censorship would only search their hearts, they might discover that, after all, there is little necessity for censorship at all. 
I am very glad of the opportunity to refer to that matter. The Yarra-bank is one of those places where there is no censorship at all. I went down to that classic resort recently, and was present at a meeting of about 7&gt;000 people, presided over by  Dr. Maloney.  Having heard so much about freedom of speech, I asked him if I might say a word on the other side. In my innocence, and accustomed as I have been to public meetings throughout the country for the last thirty years, I thought that I would, at least, be vouchsafed the opportunity to say something. When I asked  Dr. Maloney,  he said, " Come up here,  Senator Lynch,"  so I pressed my way through the crowd, some advocates of free speech meanwhile hooting me and advising me to go to Germany. But when I got near the platform, and asked  Dr. Maloney  if I might say something on the other side, he said, "No, brother." For the first time in my Australian experience I was refused the opportunity of speaking at a public meeting. 
 Senator Ferricks  has brought under the notice of the Senate a matter of very great importance, not only to those who, like himself and myself&gt; are conscientiously opposed to the Government's proposals, but to everybody, whatever may be their way of thinking, for it is not a question of censorship as affecting the Labour press only; the matter affects every newspaper in the Commonwealth of Australia. It appears, however, that some special attention is being paid to the Labour press in this country. This was evidenced by the raid lately upon the Trades Hall in this city, at the instance of the military censor. 
Yes, it is a good thing for every working man and woman in Australia that we have such institutions as Trades Halls in our several centres of population. I turn to those institutions when I want light and leading to guide me. Recently a conference was held at the Melbourne Trades Hall; all the States of the Commonwealth but one were represented. Matters of considerable importance were discussed at that conference, and certain decisions were arrived at. In the furtherance of the business that had been transacted, it was decided in the interests of the anticonscription campaign, and on behalf of the industrialists of Australia, to issue  a  manifesto. It would appear, however, that a mistake was made by the drafters of the manifesto, because it was not submitted to the censor for approval. Evidently the Minister for Defence was made aware of this, but instead of exercising  common  sense, and giving some fair play, which might be expected from a Labour Minister, what was done? At the Trades Hall the officials are engaged, during the whole day, in the various offices, administering the affairs of the different organizations, and there is telephonic communication, as well as a frequent tramway service, between the military barracks and the Trades Hall. 
As I said, there is an easy means of communication between the military barracks and the Trades Hall, but the military authorities instead of doing their work in the daylight, came down to the private residence of  Mr. Holloway,  secretary of this organization, when he had retired, and informed him that they wanted the manifestoes that were to be distributed throughout the States of the Commonwealth. He was indisposed to let them have them, but they warned him that if he did not, they would break into the Trades Hall. In order that they should not destroy property at the Trades Hall, he accompanied them to that building and gave them possession of the pamphlets. Then they journeyed to the office of the  Labour Call,  where they secured possession of documents, and took away tho forme containing the type from which  the circulars were printed. And notwithstanding the statement by the Minister of Defence, I affirm that the pith or that manifesto was published in the  Argus  When that fact was brought under the notice of the honorable gentleman, he at once became a super-censor, and above him to-day there appears to be yet another censor, in the person of the Prime Minister. j.his censorship in respect of anti-conscription is irritating to men who have helped as far as they possibly could "to build up the movement with which we are associated. How, in the name of goodness, are we to put our case against the Government if such rigid censorship is to be exercised ? The censorship does not apply only to the Labour press, because I recently brought under the attention of the Minister complaints by the provincial ,press of Victoria as to the way in which their news matter was being censored. A very glaring case was submitted to him more than a week ago, a case in which a newspaper which is not run in the interests of Labour made very serious complaints because of the paradoxical way in which it was treated as compared with the treatment accorded to city journals. 
That circumstance in itself- shows that the censorship has not been what it should be. 
I brought under the Minister's notice the case of a provincial journal- 
Then the Minister might, as a matter of courtesy, have officially communicated the fact to me, in' order that I might reply to the newspaper proprietors who had written to me concerning the censorship. Now, the Sydney  Bulletin  is a very violent advocate of conscription. Yet that paper is loud in its complaints of the censorship. It does not know from day to day what comments it will be allowed to make upon the various questions with which it deals. 
No, but I read the previous issue, in which the position is summed up very fairly. As the  Bulletin  expresses my view of the censorship, I propose to quote from a leading article in its issue of 14th September. 
The honorable senator may take a good deal as read, but I intend to get these extracts into  Hansard,  because I feel strongly upon this question. The article, which is headed '"' The Principles of the Censorship," reads - 
Ordinarily the press is the guardian of the public interest. If a wrong is being done, it is to the press that the discoverer of the wrong takes his knowledge. Or he tells his tale upon a platform to half-a-dozen people, perhaps, and the press tells it to half-a-dozen millions. The public does not know now the things it i.? not permitted to know. That is to say, newspapers are not permitted to tell what things arc censored, and there can be no protest against it. The public must not be informed that a wrong is proceeding. This is a power too vast to hand over to party politicians. It is a power which at least should be subservient to the High Court; and no regulation or instruction should have any force until it had the approval of a Judge of the Court. No work of equal importance confronts the distinguished Bench, lt is not judicial work, perhaps, in the ordinary way; but it is work of exactly the same character as that which the High Court wag created to perform. 
If the censorship were vested in the Justices of the High Court, the people of Australia would be safer than they are, and newspaper proprietors would secure a much fairer deal. Before resuming my seat I wish to say, with all the sincerity of my soul, that I do deplore the attitude taken up by the Minister for Defence and the Prime Minister, who, whenever anybody makes out a case against the censorship, or against anything pertaining to their administration of Departments, emphasize the fact - as if we were not aware of it - that we are at war, and go out of their way by innuendo to charge certain sections of the community with being subject to German influence and in the receipt of German pay. Such innuendoes are damnable and despicable, and if the Minister for Defence, or William Morris Hughes, charges me or anybody with whom I am associated with such heinous offences, I shall certainly do something to make them sit up. They themselves hold an honest opinion, and surely in this Australia of ours there is room enough for us all to have an honest difference of opinion without having recourse to such outrageous statements. The Minister for Defence and the Prime Minister have outraged a big section of the community by these innuendoes. I hope that they will discontinue making them from this time onwards. 
I would not have risen but for the circumstance that  Senator Ferricks,  who wishes to reply to some of the statements which have been made during the course of this debate, has been suddenly called out of the chamber. To myself and to a number of honorable senators the allegations which he made were positively alarming. The most grave of them, I regret to say, was not touched by the Minister for Defence. I confess that I was surprised at this, because I suppose that  Senator Ferricks  has some reason for making the statements which he did, especially those in regard to cartoons. One allegation was that a cartoon had been published which represented the Prime Minister in a certain position, and that that gentleman immediately wanted to know why the censor had allowed it to pass. Evidently, if it had been submitted to the Prime Minister himself, it would not have been published. That is the only inference one can draw from the statement made by  Senator Ferricks.  If we are going to have a censorship to that extent in Australia the forthcoming campaign will not be conducted in the ordinary way. 
Other statements were made in regard to the censorship of cartoons. It was asserted, for example, that certain cartoons were submitted to the censor, who said, ' ' You know very well that these are adverse to the Prime Minister, and, consequently, I cannot allow you to publish them." I wish that the Minister for Defence had dealt with that charge, because it constitutes the gravamen of the complaints made by  Senator Ferricks.  I can quite understand the explanation which has been offered in regard to the censorship of telegrams. I can readily conceive that the trouble may have been due to a mistake in the telegraph office. But no such explanation can be offered in regard to the cartoons. 
There is a censorship of cartoons. 
I think so. At the same time, I do not think that there is any reason to have a censorship of cartoons which relate to political movements in Australia. If any cartoon is calculated to give assistance to the enemy I can quite understand it being censored. But whether the matter is within the knowledge of the Minister for Defence or not, no answer has been made by him to the charges which were so ably dealt with by  Senator Ferricks. 
Honorable senators have thoroughly accepted and indorsed the statements made by the Minister for Defence as to the course of conduct which must be followed in regard to the censorship by a country which is at war. He laid down general principles, to which everybody will assent. But I cannot help thinking that he entirely overlooked two important matters which arise out of this discussion. In the first place, I would point out that there is a vast difference between a military and a political censorship; and, in the second, that the Government have already decided in regard to a most important matter of public policy, that it shall be removed from the parliamentary arena and transferred to the people. Both of these matters have a distinct bearing on the motion submitted by  Senator Ferricks.  I am quite convinced that whatever instructions have been issued by the Ministry, the censors have lately been following them to an extent which is little short of criminal, and is certainly very foolish. So great has become the restiveness of the public under the censorship as they know it to exist, that quite recently the Labour party in my own State held a meeting and practically presented an ultimatum to the Government that those who favoured this course were prepared to throw themselves heartily into the campaign in favour of conscription, provided the censorship was modified. That statement appeared in the press, otherwise I should not have known of it. There is evidence, in the minds of those who are not politically opposed to the Minister on the conscription issue, that the censorship has been carried to undue and unnecessary lengths. As one who heartily supports the Government proposal covered by the referendum, I would point out that if the censorship is exercised as it has been of late, it will be the most powerful weapon that we could have to fight, and will play right into the hands of our opponents.  Senator Ferricks  made certain statements about alleged cases of censorship, no doubt in good faith, but presented no evidence to substantiate his assertions in any one case. He affirmed that certain telegrams which he read out had been censored There is no evidence that the censor ever saw them. If they were censored, he should rememberthat, when a censor finds that suspicious telegrams come to or go from an individual, he may be pardoned for exercising a little extra severity with other messages passing to or from the same quarter. In this case, the Minister affirmed that he himself approved of the censoring of one telegram passing to or from  Mr. Grayndler. 
Where a man is found to be connected with a telegram of such a character that the Minister not merely approves of its being censored, but offers, in the frankest possible way, to enable honorable senators to form their own independent judgment on it. he must not complain if later messages to or from him are regarded with suspicion. 
-No. I do not know that they have been held up. I am only stating a general principle. Communications which are more or less traitorous - and I call them traitorous if they are against the interests of this country - do not go to an individual unless there has been some prior communication making sure that. he will receive them. 
I do not know. The Minister said he approved of its being censored. If he thought it was one which ought not to have been sent, I assume that it was against the best interests of Australia. 
If people are  so  careless as to send wildly-worded telegrams, they must not altogether blame the censor if he looks with undue suspicion upon their later communications. 
A telegram of that nature suggests previous correspondence. 
Telegrams of that kind do not pass from stranger  to  stranger. I accept  Senator Gardiner's  statement as probably correct. If people get into the slovenly habit in a time like this of sending " wildly- worded telegrams," they do not stand in the same position as an ordinary citizen who  is  careful of what he sends. 
Anything deliberately intended to injure the interests of this country is traitorous. The Minister, in reading,the letter, of instructions,, mentioned the direction to the censors  to  prevent the publication of anything which would incite to a breach of a Federal law. I hope he will make it apply also to anything calculated to lead to  a  breach of a proposal which may become  a  Federal law. I refer to statements which amount to an incitement to people, if the Government policy should become law,  to  refuse to obey it. Honorable senators have talked about the censors suppressing matter that ought to be allowed to be published, but those officials are open  to  condemnation for not suppressing statements of that kind, because I know  nothing  more likely to incite a spirit approaching rebellion than that responsible people should publicly declare that,  if  Parliament passes a law, and a majority of the people, approve .of it, they, . with thousands of others, will resist it. The censors might reasonably ask if that  is  not a direct incentive to a prospective -breach of a proposed Federal law, leading to public turmoil, and, possibly, culminating in revolution. When speaking about what the censors have suppressed, honorable senators should consider what they are passing. I take a serious view  of the position, because there are evidences that it will not take very much to create a very excited state of public opinion. There is, therefore, an obligation on every one to choose his words with great deliberation, considering not what effect they have upon his own mind, but the effect they may have upon minds less disciplined. . If revolutionary utterances of this nature are to be made in the coming campaign, the obligation rests upon the censors, and those controlling them, to see that they are not circulated by means of the press throughout the length and breadth of Australia. 
 Senator Millen's  remarks confirm in a measure the statement of the Minister for Defence that those responsible for the censorship are carrying out their duties impartially.-  Senator Ferricks  called attention to what he believed to be tyranny on the part of the censors, and used some very strong language in so doing, and  Senator Millen  has castigated them in language not quite so strong. These facts confirm the Minister's view that the censors are doing the best they can, for it is evident that they are pleasing neither side. Some men have been prone to throw the whole responsibility for the censorship upon the Prime Minister.  His  burden is quite heavy enough as it is, although he may be quite willing to carry any additional burden that may properly be placed on him. We know that the Minister for Defence has never sought to escape the responsibility for the conduct and control of the censorship system in this country. That .matter is entirely in his hands. It should, therefore, be remembered, in justice to the Prime Minister, that we have in this chamber a Minister directly responsible to Parliament for any grievances honorable senators may have against the censorship. I have a little grievance also. I have in my hand an article against conscription, presenting the case from the Australian point of view, and written by Randolph Bedford, one of Australia's best known and ablest journalists. It contains some very fine arguments and some unanswerable facts, but for reasons best known to themselves the censors have not allowed it to be published.  Senator Ferricks  made some very serious statements. They have been in a measure answered by the Minister, but the matter can in no circumstances be allowed to remain where it is. 
He said a number of telegrams had not been delivered, and when more than one is treated in that way the matter goes far beyond the realm of coincidence.  Senator Ferricks  must accept the responsibility for his statements, and be prepared to hand them over to the Minister for Defence. He should invite the Minister to make the fullest and most complete investigation to ascertain if telegrams of the . character he read out this afternoon have been Stopped. If they have been the Minister will be doing only what the Senate expects of him if he deals in the most drastic manner with the person responsible for their suppression. 
The Minister can do nothing fairer. In justice to the Minister, and in the interests of that freedom of speech which  Senator Ferricks  is anxious to preserve, the honorable senator should take every step necessary to insure the fullest inquiry 'into the matter. That can be done only by supplying the Minister with copies of the wires. 
I am glad to hear it. The honorable senator may rest assured that if his statements are found correct I shall go as far as he can possibly desire me to go in seeing that the existing censorship conditions are modified during the coming campaign. I have sufficient confidence in  Senator Pearce  to believe that he will take drastic action against those found responsible for the suppression of the telegrams quoted. If the facts are as alleged, nothing short of drastic action will satisfy the great majority of honorable senators. 
I expected the Minister for Defence to make some comment on my statement regarding the engagement of a prominent journalist and staff in Melbourne for the furtherance of the conscription campaign. 
Because those people 'will get certain material before the public, whereas we, owing to the drastic censorship prevailing, will not be able to  present our side of the case. I raised the question not so much in relation to what has passed as in relation to what I fear in the future.  Mr. Grayndler  has been to Sydney,  Mr. Stewart  has been to Melbourne, and I have come from Adelaide. The Minister can have copies of the telegrams, but the messages are now of no value. The Leader of the Opposition spoke of traitorous comment, and the Minister for Defence stated that he had approved of the censoring of  Mr. Collins'  remarks concerning Russia and Ireland.  Mr. Collins  complained that his remarks about  Mr. Hughes  had also been cut out.  Mr. Collins  was reported, on page 202 of thu Queensland  Hansard  of the 29th August to have said regarding Ireland - 
When I heard the honorable member for East Toowoomba talking about justice, my mind went back to the commencement of the war, when a man belonging to the wealthy classes of Great Britain organized against giving a certain part of the British Empire the same rights as we in Queensland possess to-day. He raised a volunteer army, and he was the cause of that insurrection which took place in Ireland. Talk about British justice. We afterwards saw that man put into a position of power, and he became a member of the British  Government. Whether the working classes were right or wrong in raising that insurrection against the powers that be, there was no reason to shoot men like Connolly and others. 
I have nothing to say against our Russian comrades. In Queensland our Russian friends are amongst the best unionists that we have, and in many cases can show the colonials the way in industrialism and unionism. Any reference to their country is no reflection on them, for they nearly all left Russia because of the despotism there prevailing.  Mr. Collins,  speaking of the censorship, said - 
We are getting freedom in Australia. Are we not allied with the greatest despotic country in the world? Where have they ever had to put up a greater fight for freedom than in Russia? The graves in Siberia will tell you of the men who fought for freedom in that country. That is 'where we will have to go to find the graves of those who fought for freedom in  Russia 
Some remarks that I made at an anticonscription meeting were censored. I have here a censored proof of the report which was to have been published in the Brisbane  Baily Standard  of 5th August - 

 Senator Ferricks said that nowhere were the people consulted [in regard to the war]. The foreign service . and the diplomatic service of Great Britain had the right alone to make treaties. Before any man could get into that service he had to have a  private income of not less than £400  a  year and blue blood in his veins. It did not matter if the blood was illegitimate or not, and very often it was. Those blue-blooded men were sent to alien countries to represent the British Empire, where they soon got out of touch with the people of their own country; but that was what the people 'had to put up with, and showed how much Democracy there was in warfare. 
There is nothing there that reflects greatly on the British Empire, yet the blue pencil was run through the passage. 
That may be the honorable senator's opinion; I do not think it an advantage to suppress the truth in that way. In the early stages of the war, trouble was caused by the authorities preventing the people from learning the truth about it. At Gallipoli the. Australian volunteer soldiers put up a wonderful achievement. They saved the Russians, who were being hotly pressed by the Austrians and the Germans, from a flank attack by the Turks. I stated in my speech that by holding the Turks at bay at Gallipoli the Australians had saved the' Russian conscript hordes from annihilation. The word "hordes " was struck out,although it means merely migrating crowds or bands, and fighting armies are migratory. The censor, in the exercise of his discretion, refused to allow the word " hordes " to be applied to the Russians in a report published by the Brisbane  Standard,  a Labour anti-conscription journal, but on 5th' August the censor permitted the words to be published in a' pro-conscriptionist journal. A correspondent, tilting at me, was there permitted to write-: 
I had the honour of attending an  anticonscriptionist  meeting last night, and there was a remark made by one of the speakers which impressed me above all others. During the course of  Mr. Ferricks'  speech, a considerable portion of which was a tirade against the military systems of other nations, in order to demonstrate how superior the voluntary system is, he informed his hearers that it was the gallant Australians at Gallipoli who saved the Russian conscription " hordes " fromannihilation. 
I trust your report of this speech will record this word " hordes," because it is a most significant one. If you remember, during the time of the terrible Armenian massacres many years ago, this was the word of contempt and abhorrence used against the "unspeakable Turks," and their bands of assassins were known as the "Turkish hordes." This is  Mr. Ferricks'  description of the noble army that has been accomplishing such unparalleled deeds of heroism and achieving incredible victories against the. Germhun. and I hope it will be remembered by all of us when the proper time arrives. - Yours, &amp;c. Chelmsford. 
Brisbane, August 4. 
It was thought quite right for a proconscription journal to speak of Russian hordes, but a Labour anti-conscription newspaper was not allowed to print the words. 
I did not mean to use it in a disrespectful sense. I speak of the Russians in Queensland as I have found them. They are men from the tips of their toes to the crowns of their heads. 
It was an impetuous or impulsive, but I do not admit that it was an unfortunate, expression. The Russians of Queensland are good unionists, good industrialists, and good Australians. They acknowledge that they left Russia because of the despotism ruling there. It is because of that that they are opposed to conscription in Australia. They have experienced in their own country the ills of conscription. My object in moving the adjournment was to ventilate what I considered a very serious matter. Having achieved that object, I ask the permission of the Senate to withdraw my motion. 
Motion, by leave, withdrawn. 
When speaking on the adjournment motion, I spoke of a telegram sent to or from  Mr. Grayndler  as having been held up. This telegram was subsequently referred to by other speakers, and, as I do not wish to create a false impression regarding it, 1 make the following personal explanation : - The telegram, having been held up by the censor, was brought to me, the censor asking whether I approved of it being held up. After reading it, I told him that I approved of his action. I wish to say, however, that my mind did not receive the impression that  Mr. Grayndler  was disloyal, or a party to disloyalty. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that two machine-gun sections have been sent to Broken Hill; and if so, what is the reason for so doing ? 
It is not a fact. 
It is not a fact that all news from Broken Hill has been censored. There have been in circulation in this city certain very ugly rumours regarding Broken Hill, which, upon making inquiry, I found to be without foundation, and I contradicted them. My contradiction was followed by the assertion that news from Broken Hill is being censored. That assertion is as untrue as the rumours to which I have referred. 
That is not a fact. No such instruction has been issued. 
 Senator McKissock  and the Minister for Defence will have ample opportunity to ventilate this matter later. I cannot permit the further discussion of it now. It has gone beyond a mere question and answer. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
In view of the fact that clerks employed in the Ordnance Department, who are attested soldiers, are supplied with uniforms, is it the intention of the Department to issue uniforms to other employees in the same Department? 
If not, why not? 
The answers are - 
It is not the intention to issue military uniform except to clerks who are now attested or to employees who are subsequently attested. 
It is contrary to the Defence Act for any person other than a member of the Military Forces to wear military uniform. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the Prime Minister any information as to whether the British Government has made similar requests to Canada, South Africa, and other self-governing Dominions, as they made to Australia for largely-increased contributions of men for the front? 
If so, will the Prime Minister make as much as possible of the information public? 
The Commonwealth Government has received information of a confidential character which it is unable to make public. It has noted that the Government of New Zealand has recently put into force the compulsory provisions of its Military Service Act. 
asked the Assistant Minister,  upon notice - 
If, before any appointment is made for a Marine Superintendent for the Commonwealth Fleet, the usual course of calling for applications will be adopted? 
If not, why not? 
The answer to the honorable member's questions is - 
Yes; before a permanent appointment is made. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Having regard to Commonwealth Military Regulation 161, prescribing that promotion of Military Staff Clerks will be based on selection which would suggest that selection would be governed by merit irrespective of seniority, is it a fact that promotion has recently been granted to several Military Staff Clerks, Class III., who, by reason of their salaries only, were the senior clerks of that class? 
If the answer to 1 be "Yes," is it considered that those clerks mentioned had better qualifications  than  all other members of their class, thus entitling them to such promotion by merit; if so, what course was followed to ascertain same, as the clerks concerned are scattered throughout the Commonwealth ? 
When promotion of Military Staff Clerks in districts is being considered, is the recommendation of respective Commandants requested ? 
Will the Minister inquire into the alleged grievances of Military Staff Clerks throughout the Commonwealth in regard to the system of promotion, and report the result of same to the Senate? 
The answers are - 
Yes. 
It is considered they had equally good qualifications, and this, together with their seniority, entitled them to promotion. No adverse reports have been received at any time in regard to Military Staff Clerks promoted. It is impossible to make comparison of the work done by different men of the same class in different districts, and seniority must govern promotion, other things being equal. 
As a general rule, yes. 
No grievances have been alleged in regard to the system of promotion, other than in the case of two junior clerks, who have endeavoured to obtain promotion, and thereby supersede capable seniors. It is not considered necessary or advisable to inquire into alleged grievances at present, especially in view of the number of Military Staff Clerks who are serving in the Australian Imperial Force: 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister be good enough to provide senators with information as to the rates of pay made to officers and soldiers now fighting in the armies of the Allies? 
The following are the rates of pay in the British Army : - 

<graphic href="080332191609213_20_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="080332191609213_21_0.jpg"></graphic>

No authentic information is available regarding the rates of pay of the other armies of the 
Allies or the South African forces. 
I object to the suspension of the Standing Orders for the purpose of carrying this Bill beyond its first reading stage to-day. There is no urgency in the matter. Already the writ for the taking of the referendum has been issued, and the Prime Minister has said that whether the Bill be passed or not, the referendum will be taken. So that apparently the passage or rejection of the Bill will not really affect the taking of the referendum. 
Is the honorable senator prepared to reject it on the first reading? As the Prime Minister has flouted this Parliament, and said that whether the Legislature approves of the Bill or not he intends to proceed with the referendum, we should take him at his word and reject the Bill. In any case there ought to be no hurry in dealing with this measure. The Prime Minister has not been in a hurry to consult the Senate. 
: Some members of another place did sit all night, but the Prime Minister exercised a little more sense. I cannot see the necessity for suspending the Standing Orders on this occasion. For every proposal that comes before theSenate we are asked to suspend everything and deal with itat once. We must not keep members of another place waiting for a moment. 
Yes. 
Even if the Standing Orders are not suspended the Bill will still be able to pass its first reading to-day. There is no urgency to warrant the passing ofthe motion . 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Motion (by  Senator Pearce)  put - 
That this Billbe now read a first time. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
This is a machinery measure, but it involves a very important principle, and that principle is contained in the question that the Bill proposes to submit to the people. The question will be - 
Are you in favour of the Government having, in this grave emergency, the same compulsory powers over citizens in regard to requiring their military service, for the term of this war, outside the Commonwealth, as it now has in regard to military service within the Commonwealth? 
It will be seen that in putting this momentous question to the people the Government deliberately limit the operation of their scheme to " the term of the war." Statements have been made that an affirmative decision upon this question will rivet militarism upon the shoulders of the people of Australia. It will not be so. After the war is over the people can revert to the position that now obtains, in which there is no provision on the statute-book for enforcing military service overseas. When the war is over the people must decide for themselves whether that provision shall appear on the statute-book. It is a matter for future decision during times of peace. The object that the Government have in view in submitting this question to the people is associated entirely with the prosecution of the war. The Government will be no party to using for industrial purposes the power which will be conferred on them by an affirmative answer to the question. Any statement to the contrary I flatly contradict. 
It is easy to hold that opinion, and it is equally easy to hold the opposite opinion. In discussing this Bill we are not considering what the people's reply to the question may be. We must consider what it involves, and it is my object to show that. Attempts have been made in the press and on the public platform to show that something sinister or something which does not appear on the surface is involved in the question to be submitted to the people. It has been claimed that once the Government are given authority to call up certain grades of persons the power will be used for some ulterior motive, whereas the sole object of the Government is the prosecution of the war, and the sole object of calling up these persons is to maintain the supply of reinforcements to our troops who are now at the front. The Government hold that they should possess this power. Some people hold that voluntary enlistment has not failed. Unfortunately the figures are an unanswerable contradiction to that assertion. The enlistments from May last have declined at a very rapid rate. In the months preceding sufficient recruits were enlisted each month to meet the number of reinforcements required - in fact, in some months there was a surplus"; but since May at no time have the numbers been equal to the number required. I am a strong believer in the voluntary system. I wish it had been possible to carry through the war under that system. I would be a much happier and much more satisfied man. I am sure that honorable senators who support the Government and support the Bill, who eventually will be found supporting the affirmative side in the referendum campaign, will be doing so with no degree of pleasure, but rather with the feeling that their position is one that they must take up, however unwillingly, owing to stern and sad necessity. That is my position. I would be very much happier if we could find reinforcements month by month without having to resort to compulsion. But there is still another answer  to the contention that the voluntary enlistment method has not failed. If it is capable of doing what is required in the way of providing reinforcements month by month, no action towards compulsion need follow an affirmative answer at the referendum. Butit is obvious to any one with the least imagination that there can be no hope of success in that direction. However, if in any month the voluntary system, which will proceed side by side with the other, brings in sufficient numbers to provide the necessary reinforcements, to that extent there will not be a resort to compulsion. There has been some cavilling as to the number of reinforcements for which the Government have called. I have heard the argument put forward, and it may bo brought forward again during this debute, that the Government are asking for 16,500 recruits per month, whereas figures given by me have shown that during six weeks there was a loss of 17,000 through casualties. It is said that the casualties represent a rate of 3,000 per week, whereas the Government ask for over 4,000 recruits per week. It is thought that there is some sinister motive in asking for the greater number of recruits than the rate of casualties shows to be necessary. It is urged that we have some idea of extending our forces. ' I repeat what has already been stated publicly. The Government have no intention of putting new units into the field. Their intention is to keep the existing units up to their proper strength. Those who talk about the discrepancy between 17,000 casualties in six weeks and 16,500 recruits in. four weeks lose sight of the wastage that goes on apart from thebattle-field wastage. The margin asked for is required to meet that wastage which occurs before the recruits go into the battle line. 
SenatorReady.  -  And it is not counterbalanced by the wounded who return to duty? 
No. Our experience over a period of twelve months shows that the wastage that occurs between the time of enlistment and the actual entry to the firing lino is close on 20 per cent., and as we have no guarantee thatthis rate will not continue, we must take into consideration not only the heavy wastage on the battle-field itself, but also that which occurs before our troops reach the battle-field, owing to sickness, disciplinary cases, medical unfitness - though fit when despatched - desertion, and various other causes of that kind. I am trying to anticipate points which may be raised duringthe debate, in order, if possible, to shorten the discussion. There has been some comment, particularly in the State of Victoria, as to the number of men who have been rejected as medically unfit. The number was so great as to be very disturbing, and in order to ascertain if there was any leakage in that direction, and whether men who were actually fit were being rejected as medically unfit, an inquiry was held by an independent Board of highly-qualified medical men into the cases of 600 men who, since the 1st July last, had been rejected as medically unfit. A close examination disclosed that only five of them should have been passed as medically fit. On the other hand, according to the last despatchesfrom Egypt, there is a large number of cases of men who had been accepted in Australia as medically fit who ought never to have been accepted. These men have broken down before they could reach the battle line. Obviously, from the complaints from which they are suffering, they were medically unfit at the time of leaving Australia. These two examples can afford little consolation to those who say that men who ought to have been taken have been rejected.. On the one hand, only five out of 600 men who have been re-examined have been described as men who should have been passed. On the other hand, we have a large list of men who are being returned from Egypt without doing a day's fighting, and who have cost the Commonwealth thousands of pounds for equipment and training, who have been found medically unfit, and were so at the time of enlistment. 
Before that can be said, it will be necessary to analyze the names of those who are being sent back for the cause I have mentioned, in order to see whether some States have been more lax than others in this regard. That may be the explanation. I hope that the debate on the Bill will be conducted without rancour, and that the subsequent campaign in the country .will also be conducted without rancour or personal vindictiveness. To those with whom I am politically associated, but who differ from me on this particular question, I say that th» Labour Party has always contended that the people should be consulted on political matters. The party have agitated for the adoption of the initiative and referendum. For the first time in the history of the Commonwealth Parliament we have been faced with the necessity for giving an important decision. Whether or not honorable senators agree with the decision arrived at by the Government, they must face the fact that some sort of decision had to be made, either to say " Yes, we will supply the men," or to say " No, we will not supply the men." If the former, then obviously there was only one way of doing what was necessary, and that was by the method which has been proposed by the Government. If the latter decision be arrived at, if we do not supply reinforcements for our troops, what will happen) We have four divisions of infantry in France ana a light horse division in Egypt. There is also in Great Britain a fifth infantry division, which has not yet taken the field. The four divisions in France are not intermingled with. British or French troops, or even with troops from the other Dominions. They hold a certain defined line of the front. In other words, a certain portion of the line in France, covering so many miles, is held by Australian troops, and the whole responsibility for holding that portion rests with them. It takes so many battalions to form a division, -and each division has its own defined line to hold. It has so many battalions in the front, so many in the supporting trenches, and a certain number 01 battalions in the rear resting. Each in their turn take their place in the front line. 
The Australians at Pozieres were intermingled with other troops. 
 There are' not many gaps. The man who goes to the front is back again in the reserves eight or nine days' later. 
 Lloyd George says they have army upon army. 
 But  Mr. Fisher  spoke only of volunteers. 
 It is entirely different from the question of policy. 
 Does the honorable senator mean, that, under the War Precautions Act, the Government could have compulsorily sent men abroad ? 
 It would be a monstrous thing to do. 
Then the Minister should let  the people know that. He should tell . them that the Government want only  60,000  men, but that they do not know whether later on they will not require  600,000  men, if they can get them. 

 Senator MULLAN (Queensland) [6.20J. - This is, perhaps, one of the. most important Bills ever submitted to this Parliament, and it deals with a momentous question. The way in which Parliament proposes to deal with the question under this Bill is to shirk its responsibilities and shoulder them on to the people. In my opinion, this so-called " Military Service Referendum Bill " is a sham and a fraud. It is a mean subterfuge by which certain politicians hope to shirk their responsibilities to the people.  Mr. Hughes  has said that, whether this Bill be carried or not, the referendum will be taken all the same. 
Labour platform, and they ask why members of the Labour party are going to vote against it. I answer that question by asking another : Why should the Conservatives who have so violently opposed the referendum all their lives now be going to vote for this plank of the Labour platform ? 

 Sitting suspended from G.30 to 8 p.m. 

We have nailed " White Australia " to our mast, yet we are but a tiny drop in a coloured ocean. We are 5,000,000 of white people, and wo live within "cooee" of a thousand millions of coloured people, who jostle one another for want of room. 
Those sentences from the Prime Minister's speech are worth a thousand speeches against conscription, for they carry on their face the strongest condemnation of the policy now advocated by the Government. 
There is hope for Australia under the policy which we advocate, hut I question if there will be any hope under conscription. We have been told that  Mr. Hughes  has first-hand information. It has been suggested that, because he speaks on the authority of that first-hand information, we ought to tumble over one another in order to embrace conscription. But what is the position? We know that  Mr. Hughes  besought his Cabinet to agree to conscription; he placed the whole of the facts before his colleagues, and laid his cards on the table. He pleaded with Caucus, and there also he placed his cards on the table. Later on he pleaded with the political and industrial bodies of New South Wales, Victoria, and South Australia. He gave them the same facts; but in every case his proposal was turned down, and I am satisfied that there will be an overwhelming majority against it when the people have an opportunity of voicing their opinions on the fateful 28th October. The industrial councils to which I refer were unanimously against conscription, but  Mr. Hughes  is now appealing to the people themselves, and he is not going to tell them the facts, nor will he allow us to do that either. 
The Empire wanted every available nian of the Dominions and the Mother Land for this light. 
That looked to be more than a mere coincidence. It appeared to be part of a plan to convert the people of Australia to conscription. On the top of that we now have the request from the Imperial Army Council to Australia for drafts of reinforcements, a thing that had never been done before by the Imperial Government. In 1914, just after the outbreak of the war, when this country had offered only 20,000 men for service at the front, when the small British Army was putting up that immortal retreat from Mons, when the guns of the Germans were thundering outside Paris, and Calais seemed almost within their reach, when our Fleet had not as yet proved its unmistakable superiority over the German Navy in any big sea fight, no request was made to Australia for assistance. Yet when, according to  Colonel  Repington.  who is generally acknowledged to be the best authority on the war in Britain to-day, there are 15,000,000 Allied troops at the front; when Roumania has joined those forces; when we are on the offensive instead of being on the defensive, we are invited to believe that Great Britain has departed from her traditional policy of refusing to ask her Dominions for help, and has actually ' requested assistance from Australia. I refuse to believe that she has asked for help from us, unless she was requested to ask for it. There is no record that New Zealand, or Canada, or South Africa has been asked to render assistance. In these circumstances, it is indeed remarkable that such a request should be made to Australia. I believe that this conspiracy was carefully hatched in Great Britain between  Mr. Hughes  and certain responsible persons there. We all know why conscription was introduced in the Old Country. Nobody is so foolish as to think that the men of Great Britain were conscripted for the trenches. The truth is that the authorities there desired industrial conscription. The great Northcliffe press, supported by the capitalistic influences of Britain, were determined that the workers should be brought under military control in the interests of capitalism. That is the real reason why they were conscripted. In support of my statement, I intend to read a few extracts. The first is a summary of the situation by  Mr. Stead,  who has written the sanest articles on .the war that have been published here since the commencement of hostilities. In his  Review  of the 3rd June last he says - 
The Compulsion Act in Great Britain has received the Royal assent. In a message to his people, King George stated that, acting on the advice of his Ministers, he had deemed it necessary to enroll every able-bodied man- between eighteen and forty-one. He said, further, that - 
No fewer than 5,041,000 men had voluntarily enlisted. That is an amazing fact, and makes one wonder why compulsion is needed. I have referred before to the fact that it is generally accepted that the total number of nien a country can put in the field is just exactly 10 per cent, of the entire population. The number of men, women, and children living in the British Isles is 40,000,000; so that, apparently, the total number of soldiers which could emeiently be put in the field is 4,600,000. But 400,000  more  than that have actually been obtained as volunteers. Is conscription, then, going to yield many more men? If not, why has it been introduced? One would imagine that compulsion was needed rather to fill the munition factories than to swell the army - rather to put all workmen of fighting age under military control than to increase the already huge total of fighting men available. 
By a majority of 326 to 36, in a House of 070* members, the British Parliament decided in favour of universal conscription. As, according to  Mr. Asquith,  Great Britain lias no less than 5,000,000 men under arms, it is difficult to see how conscription will put any more soldiers in the field. Conscription will, however, enable the Government to organize the entire nation far more effectively, for all workers of fighting age will be under military control. The suggestion has already been made that miners should work for ten hours instead of eight, in order to make good the shortage of coal. Under present conditions that would bc quite impossible; but under the conditions brought in by conscription, it would be quite feasible. 
Here is yet another sidelight upon how conscription came to be inaugurated in Great Britain.  Mr. John  Dillon, in writing on this question, says - " In recent British history, there has been no such discreditable chapter as that which contains the history of the campaign against the voluntary system in Great Britain. If the Conscription Bill is presented and passed, it will be the crowning triumph for Lord Northcliffe and his newspapers, for the  Daily Mail  is fully justified when it claims that the campaign is their campaign, and the triumph is their triumph. And the working classes of Great Britain will do well to remember that  a  large number of those who have carried on this campaign have been predominantly influenced, not by a single-hearted desire to win the war, but by considerations of the conditions of England after the war is over, and by a desire to create an instrument which can be used hereafter to resist and put down the Struggles of Labour which they anticipate will follow on the conclusion of peace. 
The statements which I have quoted let in quite a flood of light upon the real reasons which animated some of the men who advocated conscription for Britain. Had  Mr. Hughes,  who has brought back such strong arguments in favour of conscription, only looked round him when he was in France, he would have found that, according to no less an authority than  Mr. Winston  Churchill, there were 200,000 flunkies and servants amongst the Army officers behind the trenches there - men who were capable of going into the firing line. 
At  any  rate, I have seen no contradiction of it. " 
Strikes are still occurring. " If they had national service or conscription there would be no strikes, and the difference of opinion that was taking place in the Government workshops would be wiped out while the war was on. 
National service would also be extended to the women of Australia as well as men. 
These gentlemen will not be satisfied with merely conscripting the men of the community. They will desire to conscript our women for industrial purposes. Then at a meeting of the Queensland Farmers' Union, which was held on the 1st June last, Captain Burroughs, in supporting a motion for conscription, said - 
He spoke with a heavy heart because his health would not permit him to go to the front. Those who had cold feet said that if there was conscription of the person there should be conscription of wealth. There already was conscription of wealth. (Hear, hear ! ) Let them have a conscription - not to send Tom, Dick, and Harry into the trenches, where they feared they would be sent, but in order that our men, women, and trades might be organized. We did not want our young men slacking during forty-four hours a week. Let them be put into a munition factory and made to work eighty-three hours a week. 
This gentleman is one of the leaders of the conscription movement in Queensland. Now let me come to Melbourne. What was said the other day at a meeting of the shareholders in the Austral Hat Mills ? While discussing the labour problem, the  Chairman (Mr. Staughton)  remarked - 
There was great scope for industries in Australia, but, unfortunately, the working men were killing them at the start by excessive rates for labour and the going-slow process. ...... ' There was only one way to block that sort of thing, and that was to import Japanese and Chinese labourers after the war. 
In final proof of my contention that these gentlemen desire conscription for industrial and not for military purposes, 1 will read a short extract from the  Pastoralists' Review  of 16th February last. I notice that the censor did not censor the statements contained in that extract. He censored the manifesto of the industrialists of Australia, but he overlooked the statements which I am about to quote. The proposal under consideration at the time was one to the effect that all the tropical part of Australia above 23J degrees of north latitude should be developed by means of coloured labour. The article says - 
Within this strip indentured coloured labour from Java, the archipelago to the north of Australia, China, India, or * the South Sca Islands, should be allowed free scope, under white supervision; but it must not be allowed to pass south of the line represented by the 75 degrees wet-bulb isotherm. 
The indenture should be of, say, five years' duration, although at the expiration of that time the men could be allowed to sign a fresh agreement for a further period of years. Restrictive legislation would have to be framed to prevent them obtaining vested interests in the country; but that would present no great difficulty. Children born in the country would be subject to the same conditions as their parents, and would have to leave with the latter, or after a fixed number of years. Of course, we realize that the great problem would be to deal' satisfactorily with the half-caste; but, owing to limited space, this question must be discussed in a future article. It is a problem that can be solved, must be solved, for, even if the question of climate did not make a White Australia impossible, the war has put an end to it. After peace is declared, the colour line will become more and more indefinable, and we shall be compelled to recognise the fact, for Britain will say to us, " Renounce your White Australia policy or suffer the consequences. Your blood will be upon 'your own head." 
There is the opinion of the capitalist of Australia. Is that what you are sending the manhood out of the country for - to make it easy for the spoilers and exploiters to destroy the country ? That .is what these men are out for. Within a few months of the passing of conscription an insistent demand will be set up for coloured labour., and with the unions smashed or seriously damaged by conscription, they will be unable to put up the great fight that they would be able to put up under normal conditions. With a gagged press, and speakers gagged on the platform under the War Precautions Act, what chance will they have to raise an outcry against the attempt which will inevitably be made to foist coloured labour on the country within a few months of the advent of conscription ? So surely as conscription is passed, and a scarcity of labour succeeds, the arguments for coloured labour will become more plausible, and almost unanswerable, according to the ideas of the capitalists. 
You do not mean to say the  Argus  wants cheap or coloured labour ? 
We have examined the war census returns relating to single men, and have had them brought up to date. We believe that, supplemented by volunteers, the supply will be sufficient. 
That means the supply of single men. That statement is made, in my opinion, with the deliberate design and purpose of deceiving the people, and deluding married men and others who may be called upon into the belief that only the single men will be required, plus such married men as may volunteer. These are the facts: - 32,500 men must be called up at the end of this month, or the difference to make up that number. Up to yesterday there were 4,000 volunteers, so that probably 25,000 men will be called up on the 1st October. We shall want 16,500 per month afterwards. This means that for one year this country has to raise 214,000 men. According to Knibbs' figures, quoted by the Minister himself a week ago, the single men physically fit, according to the census cards on the 9th June last, between the ages of eighteen and forty-four, were 203,402. Of these, 50,572 were in camp on the day the Minister made his statement, reducing the number of single men available to 152,830. It is estimated that those over eighteen and under twenty-one number 40,000. 
All male inhabitants of Australia (excepting those who are exempt from service in the Defence Force) who have resided therein for six months and are British subjects, and arc between the ages of eighteen and sixty years, shall, in time of war, be liable to serve in the Citizen Forces. 
If the question is carried in the affirmative, that is what will become law with regard to military service outside the Commonwealth. Let us be honest, and tell the people what we intend. The lives and liberties of many of our citizens are involved. Therefore, let those who vote know the whole facts. If we continue the campaign as it was opened by the Prime Minister, with an outburst of calumny and the misrepresentation of opponents, how can the people arrive at an honest verdict ? We have a terrible responsibility in this matter, and must, therefore, put our case fairly, fearlessly, and faithfully. Hitherto the Minister has found the greatest difficulty in sending away 13,000 men per month. The men sent away this year have not averaged more than 9,000 or 10,000 a month, and the average for the two years of the war is about 7,500 per month. 
Wilfrid Laurier, the Leader of the Opposition in Canada, said- 
Wc must repel the imputation that this is the prelude to conscription. There must be no conscription in Canada, and we should- have an authoritative statement from the Prime Minister on this subject. 
To that  Sir Robert  Borden replied - 
In regard to conscription, he would repeat to-day, with emphasis, the statement which he had made public months ago, that there was no intention to introduce conscription. 
If Canada, which can spare men better than we can, takes that position, why should we court disaster by denuding Australia of her manhood? With conscription there will be insufficient men to harvest our crops, to shear our wool, and to prepare our meat. This will make the argument for the employment of coloured labour stronger. Our productivity will be reduced just when it should be increased, that is, when the strain is at breaking point. It has been costing us, approximately, £70,000,000 per annum to do our part in the war, and at the end of the year the cost of it will reach £100,000,000. Let us hesitate before making it greater. We have in camp and abroad approximately 300,000 men. If we increase the number by 213,000 within twelve month's, our expenditure will reach the staggering sum of £234,056,250 per annum. That estimate is based on the assumption that it costs 25s. a day to keep a man in the field, having regard to food, munitions, equipment, and everything else. 
The Bill is not for the purpose of conscription for service either in Australia or abroad. Tn no circumstances would I agree to send men out of this country to fight against their will. If the day ever comes when nien will not fight when their country is at death grips, it will be because the country is rotten to the core, and not worth fighting for. 
If  Mr. Hughes  could violate that sacred promise of July of last year he could equally violate his promise in regard to the conscription of wealth. 
The proposals of the Government do not destroy voluntarism; rather do they stimulate it. 
If I walk up to  Mr. President,  and ask him for £1, and say to him that if he does not give it I will take it, he can hardly be said to be giving the money voluntarily if he gives it to me in those circumstances. Similarly, the man who becomes a volunteer in order to avoid being a conscript can hardly be described as a volunteer.  Mr. Hughes'  statement will not bear examination. The Labour movement was started a quarter of a century ago with one aim and object in view, namely, to dethrone the autocracy which then ruled supreme. The movement said that no man should dominate a Parliament or a people; that the people should rule instead of being ruled. For the purpose of bringing about this reform leagues, unions, and conferences were established, and the objects of the movement found final expression in the platform that the party adopted.  Mr. Hughes  was one of the principal architects of that platform. 2Tow he is out to destroy some of his handiwork. He is out in spirit to-day to depart from one of the principles that animated the movement, namely,- that the movement should lead its leaders, and arrogates to himself the right to lead the movement. The moment any movement, Labour or otherwise, allows itself to be dictated to by one man it is in danger, because if that man succeeds in one case he will succeed again. If  Mr. Hughes  succeeds, and conscription is carried, the Labour party is doomed. Speaking to a  Herald  reporter prior to his departure on Saturday,  Mr. Hughes  said - 
In this, the greatest crisis of the civilized world, a crisis in which Democracy and Labour are fighting for their existence, this secret junta dares to tell me, and those who stand with me, that, on pain of expulsion, we must not speak as our consciences direct. 
In assuming that attitude, the "secret junta" referred to by  Mr. Hughes  are merely copying him, because he, in turn, has said to his Cabinet, " Only those can remain in my Cabinet who follow, not the dictates of their consciences, but my policy." He blamed the movement for heaving him out because he would not conform to its wishes; yet he is prepared to heave out his Ministers if they do not conform to his desires. Every one knows that the lips of his Ministers are sealed. Every one knows that six members of his Cabinet are to-day against conscription. 
.- The Bill now put forward for our consideration and decision is the most important that has ever been submitted to this Chamber. Prior to its introduction in another place the newspapers of this State airily assumed that the great majority of the people of Victoria were anxiously and eagerly awaiting the application of conscription in the Commonwealth in respect of the titanic struggle that is now being waged in Europe. But since the introduction of this Bill the newspapers- of this State, at least, have discovered that there is a section, and a very big section, of this community, who are determined by every legitimate means in their power not to have imposed upon them that which the publications to which I have referred assumed that the people desired. Last night, at the Exhibition Building, Melbourne, there was held a meeting which was attended by probably 15,000 or more citizens of Victoria. It was by no means the first meeting that had been held by organizations and interested persons who are putting forward every legitimate effort to defeat the referendum in this State on the 28th October next. When the resolution in opposition to conscription was submitted to that immense gathering, it was carried unanimously. So far as the  chairman  and I noted, there was not a single dissentient hand or voice raised against it in that great gathering. The reason why the industrialists of Victoria are determined, if possible, to prevent the introduction of conscription in this young country of ours is that they know that it is vicious in principle, and because they know also that the conscription of human life is but the first step, the next step being the conscription of labour. That there is not wanting evidence of this is shown by the utterances of various gentlemen in different spheres of activity. A few evenings ago, in the Victorian Legislative Council,  Mr. Hagelthorn,  Minister for Agriculture, made .certain remarks that had little or no application to the  measure then before the - Chamber; but evidently the matter to which I am going to refer was in his mind, and he thought, maybe, it would be a fitting opportunity to give expression to it. Bte said - 
Before very long the Government, either directly or through agencies qualified for the purpose, would have to take into very serious consideration the limitation of certain industries and activities when harvesting operations were on and fruit picking was in full swing; for, he repeated, it was apparent that there would be very great difficulty in getting a sufficiency of labour to undertake the garnering of cereals and fruit, and yet the gathering of those crops must proceed. 
That was the statement of a responsible Minister, made before the people had had an opportunity to express their views on the question that is to be submitted to them on the 28th October next. T expect that when he speaks of the limitation of certain industries that are in existence today, he means that, if the people now employed in them could be better employed in picking fruit or gathering the harvest, those other industries ought to cease. There is no doubt that those who were running the industries affected would object unless there was conscription of labour; and although the Minister stated to-day that the Government had no intention at present to conscript labour- 
-Although the Minister said there was no intention to conscript labour- ' 
The Bill does make the intention clear. If this war continues for any great length of time, though I do not think it will, it will follow, as the night the day, notwithstanding the assurance of a Labour Minister for Defence, that, if we have conscription of human life, we shall have conscription of labour as well. 
I do not think that any other Government could do worse than the present Government. However,  Senator Mullan  referred to the statement by the Prime Minister which was reported in  Hansard  of July last; and it is a statement that cannot be too often emphasized. The Prime Minister then said, " In no circumstances will I agree to send men out of the country to fight against their will." When he made that statement he was Prime Minister of Australia and Leader of the Australian Labour party. It was only last year ; and at that time he knew, as we all knew, that Lord Kitchener had said that, in his opinion, the war would last for at least three years - that preparations were being made for a three years' war at the shortest. We also knew that Russia was more or less disorganized, and more or less unequipped, and we were told that France was being bled almost white. Further, we knew that the Prime Minister of England, and other gentlemen holding responsible positions in the heart of the Empire, had declared, " What we want are munitions, munitions, and more and more munitions, and more and more men." At that time there was no conscription at Home, and both Britain and her Allies were short of munitions. To-day, circumstances, like  Mr. Hughes,  have changed. We were then well within the danger zone, while to-day  we are not only outside that- zone, but Germany is beaten, and the end of the war is within measurable distance. In my case, Russia is better off than she was over twelve months ago. She is better equipped than she was when  Mr. Hughes  said he would under no circumstances conscript men for oversea. Today, France has more men in the field than she had at the beginning of the war, and Britain has ample munitions and ample men. Yet we are told that the reason  Mr. Hughes  has changed his opinion is that necessity has arisen for such a change. 
I shall show that, later on. According to the Government's proposals, a proclamation will be issued shortly calling up for home service 32,500 single men. The voluntary enlistments will be deducted from the 32,500, and the difference will be called up before the 1st October next for home defence. If the people of Australia are not in favour of the Government's proposals, these men will not be sent overseas, and neither will they, in my opinion, be retained for home defence. Now, home defence is to me a matter of supreme importance. It is so because I love Australia, the land of my birth, with all my heart and soul. I love her because she is rich in all that makes for a nation's greatness. She has every variety of climate, every diversity of soil, and unbounded resources and potentialities. I love her because she gives to her people, particularly those who, like myself, are born and reared in the school of adversity, greater opportunities for a fuller and better life, and a higher civilization than any zone that belts the globe. 
I know there ave some in this chamber who are haunted by the fear that the Allies will not win this war - the fear that the defeat of the Allies would mean that Australia would be a prize for the enemy. Such a contingency to me is unthinkable - it is impossible. The Allies have already won - Germany is beaten. 
I communicate the news to those gentlemen who are haunted by the fear that unless we conscript a few thousand single men in Australia, the Allies, with their innumerable millions, will be defeated and civilization blasted. I have said that Germany is beaten . 
It cannot be too often repeated to some honorable senators. 

 Mr. Bonar Law, a member of the British Cabinet, speaking last week at the luncheon given to  Sir Edward  Morris, Premier of Newfoundland, said - 
We were all anxious in the early spring, but that anxiety has gone. There is no shortage of ammunition, the best proof of which is that the German newspapers complain of British cruelty in exterminating the enemy by artillery. 
I do not profess to sec the end of the war, but the end is coming. I do not see how the war will end, though I have no doubt what the ultimate end will be. 
Honorable senators and some gentlemen in another place who are advocating conscription have doubts, but it will be seen that  Mr. Bonar  Law has none. LieutenantColonel Repington, the military correspondent of the  Times,  in reviewing the situation last week, made these striking statements - 
When we learned of the German decision to transfer the offensive to the west front, wc knew definitely that Germany had lost the war, and given Russia the necessary breathing space. It must have been gall and wormwood to the German soldiers on the cast front to see the fruit of their great labours thus thrown away. 
Here is another authority. Although  Mr. Hughes  went to the front, he never had, and never can have, the opportunities that General Joffre has had to pass an opinion upon the duration of the war. For the first time since the war began, General Joffre last month granted an interview to recognised and well-known American pressmen. He made these significant and striking statements to those gentlemen - 
Consider the situation of our enemies. We know they are fighting as desperately as ever, but they arc drawing on their last reserves. Their plan up to now has been to transfer those reserves from one place to another. They now find this impossible. We know this from information from all fronts. It is not for me to say how long the war will last. It matters little. We know that the break has come. We have already passed the turning point. 
That was a month ago, and General Joffre said further - 
Notwithstanding our losses, the French army will end the war with more mcn in the field than at the beginning. 
Those are my authorities for saying that Germany is beaten, and that the end of war is within measurable distance. We have been told that only single men are to be called up; that only single men will be necessary to see this war through. I am going to quote figures which will show that if there is anything in that statement it is but a confirmation of the statement I have previously made, that there is no danger whatever of Australia becoming the prize of the enemy, because the number that can be called up under the scheme outlined by  Mr. Hughes  in Sydney will be comparatively so small as to make no material difference in the re- . suit of the war. The Prime Minister has said that the Government propose only lo call up single men, and that they do not think it will be necessary to call up married men. According to figures compiled by the Commonwealth Statistician, there were, on the 9th June last, 450,000 fit men, between the ages of eighteen and forty-four years. Of that number it may be assumed that one-third are single men, and the remaining two-thirds married men. One-third of 450,000 gives us, in round 'figures, 150,000 men. The figures' show that on the 9th June last there were 150,000 fit single men between the ages of eighteen and forty- four years. I understand that we are entitled to make a deduction of 25 per cent, from this number to. represent those between the ages of eighteen and twenty-one years, who will not be conscripted, and, according to the best authorities, of the volunteers who presented themselves for medical examination and enlistment at the various military depots in this State during the past four months, there were 36 per cent, of rejects because of physical unfitness. I make bold to say that if from the 150,000 single men between the ages of eighteen and forty-four years, we take 25 per cent., representing those under the age of conscription, 36 per cent, as rejects because physically unfit, and the number covered by the exemptions provided for under the scheme outlined by  Mr. Hughes,  we shall find that there will not be available more than 50,000 or 60,000 single men. In the circumstances, I say that when the Minister for Defence and the Prime Minister tell us that they do not think it will be necessary to call up married men, the statement is misleading, and, in my opinion, more or less dishonest. 
I am stating my view of the case seriously. Those who favour the Government's proposal believe that the war will last longer than I think it will. I challenge the Prime Minister or the Minister for Defence to contradict my contention that when we make up the difference between the number of volunteers and the 32,500 who will be required on the 1st October, and send forward 16,500 per month after that, the eligible single men in the Commonwealth will have been pretty well exhausted by the end of the year, and by January or February, 1917, the call for married men will be made. 
I am against conscription for many reasons. I said earlier that home defence is to me a matter of supreme importance. We have played a very big part in this war. It is well that the people of Australia should understand what our financial responsibilities are and will be as the result of what we have done up to date. During the first year of the war, according to the Budget statement of the Treasurer, our expenditure was,  in  round figures, £20,000,000. In the second year it was £50,000,000. If we do not conscript a single man, our financial responsibility for the financial year ending the 30th June, 1917,and assuming that the war will be ended then, will amount to another £75,000,000. It is estimated by those most competent to judge that if the war is over at the end of June next, it will take two years before our soldiers abroad can be returned to Australia and settled in different avocations. 
It will be nearly two years before the last of our soldiers abroad can be returned to Australia. The major portion of them will have to be paid for that period, and it is estimated that if the war ends by June of next year we shall be involved in an additional expenditure of £60,000,000 on this account. That will mean a total expenditure of £205,000,000 as a new debt for the Commonwealth of Australia. 
I have gone into the figures very carefully, and I have arrived at the conclusion that the new debt upon Australia up to. June next will be £205,000,000. 
Perhaps the honorable senator will have an opportunity of putting the financial position from his point of view. These are the conclusions that I have arrived at. Upon that total of £205,000,000 there will be a new interest bill of £10,250,000 every year. 
SenatorReady. - In addition tothe £13,000,000 that the State Governments have to pay. 
I am not concerned with the State Governments at all. This £10,250,000 in interest is a particular liability of the Commonwealth. 
I am allowing 5 per cent. Now our taxation proposals bring in £4,500,000, so if we do not conscript a single man our present taxation must be more than doubled to meet this new liability. If, however, we conscript 300,000 men, the additional expenditure will be £75,000,000, bringing the total new debt up to £280,000,000, and the interest bill will be increased by £3,7 50,000, making the total of interest £14,000,000. It will be seen, therefore, that if the people of Australia go in for conscription, and they call up 100,000 men, our present taxation proposals will have to be more than trebled to meet our interest liabilities. 
-I am saying that by conscripting 100,000 men our present taxation proposals will have to be trebled, for we shall have to provide the difference between £4,500,000 at present received by way of taxation and an interest liability of £14,000,000. 
No ; the interest liability directly due to the conscription of 100,000 men will be £3,750,000 per annum. 
If we conscripted 200,000 men, we should have a  further responsibility of £100,000,000, and a total interest bill of £19,000,000 a year. 
Well, if the people of Australia want conscription, that is what it will cost; and, so far as the Labour party is concerned, they will see that the taxation is imposed upon those who, apparently, have not borne their fair share of it, in respect to this war, up to the present. I would not send a single man out of Australia by conscription, because the question of home defence is of .supreme importance. The turning point in the struggle has been passed, and victory for the Allies is as certain as that day follows night. There is, therefore, no danger, so far as Australia is concerned; there is no danger in respect to the Empire. 
If the people of Australia see this matter in the proper light, I think they will view favorably the proposal I am going to put forward. Instead of conscripting 100,000 men, as is proposed, involving an expenditure of £75,000,000, I would spend that amount in the construction of strategic railways, in hastening on the unification of the railway  gauge3,  in the building of seaplanes and submarines, and thousands of aeroplanes, as well as a fleet of dirigibles. I would also erect the most tip-to-date arsenal in the world, and honeycomb Australia with stations for the location of our air fleet. 1 stood almost alone on this question years ago, when I pointed out the possibilities of aerial defence. I said then that the next war, which I hoped to God would not take place in my life-time, would be the most bloody in the history of the world, and that it would be largely determined, not as wars have been in the years gone by, but under the water and in the air. Those who have followed the progress of this 
Avar  know that the submarine has played an important part, and that the substantial progress made by the Allies on land is due to the fact that they have become masters of the air.  Thi3  question of aerial defence is receiving very careful attention from the most advanced military authorities in the world. Even Great Britain is preparing for the next war, for in the  Age  of the 14th of this month there appeared a cable message stating that the British air defence, after the war, would involve the establishment of an encircling cordon of 20,000 aeroplanes and 1,000 air craft for the army. What would it mean if we spent the £75,000,000 in. Australia? It would enable us to construct strategic railways, to adopt a uniform railway gauge, to build a large fleet of aeroplanes - thus affording employment for thousands, who will probably experience difficulty in securing employment after the war - and to materially assist the Empire. 
The war is over so far as the Allies are concerned. Germany is beaten. I make that prediction after having given the matter very serious consideration. 
Never mind that. I  affirm  most unhesitatingly that she is beaten. Only a few years ago an agitation was started in the Commonwealth for the presentation of a Dreadnought to the Mother Country. A certain section of the community believed that that was the most appropriate "way in which we could recognise the services that had. been rendered to Australia by Great Britain in the matter of affording us adequate protection. The Labour party came into  power,  and said, " The best service that we can render to the Empire is to build a navy of our own," and accordingly that was done. In the same way I maintain that the best service we can render the Empire now - seeing that all doubt as to the issue of the war has been removed - is to go in whole-heartedly for an efficient system of home defence. I do not desire to trespass any longer upon the time of honorable senators. I have expressed my views in regard to this Bill. From the first I have never doubted the ultimate result of the war. I have said many times that men, money, and munitions must eventually prevail. That they  have prevailed is borne out by the substantial evidence which I have produced this evening. When this Bill is referred to the people, I and others who are opposed to the Government policy, will do what we can to prevent conscription being fastened upon the Commonwealth. If I am any judge of the feeling of the people of Victoria, and if I understand their determination aright, a majority will not be found casting an affirmative vote in respect of the Bill on the 28th October. 
I cannot speak for other States. I know that meetings have been held in some of the State capitals by the advocates of conscription. We have been assured that the meeting which was addressed by the Prime Minister in Sydney the other evening was one of the most successful gatherings ever held in the Commonwealth. We know that the speech which he delivered on that occasion had practically been delivered in the newspaper offices here before it was uttered in Sydney, and that cheers had been given for itby the sub-editors of certain journals and by others. We have been told that it was a packed meeting which was held in the Sydney Town Hall - that is to say, that the hall would not hold more people, that the early doors were rushed, and that when the motion was put to the gathering, 4,000 persons voted in favour of it, and only seven against it. 
No, but somebody else did. Outside the Sydney Town Hall those who could not get admission to that building by the early doors held a meeting on their own account. The meeting was more numerously attended than was the gathering inside the Town Hall, and, when a vote was called for, 8,000 persons were found to be opposed to conscription, and only eight in favour of it. I have that information from a most reliable source. 
Although I can indulge in a little "leg-pulling" occasionally, I can assure honorable senators that I never felt more serious in my life than I do upon this question. It is because I have a conscientious objection to conscription for military service abroad, when I consider it is quite unnecessary, that I have raised my voice in opposition to it. When the numbers go up on the 28th October I believe it will be found that the proposals of the Government have been defeated by an immense majority. 
In common with other honorable senators, I do not think that this is a time for silence. Bather is it a time when each one of us should express his views freely and frankly on the momentous issue which faces us to-day - the most important issue with which Australia has ever been confronted. I shall approach this question with a full sense of my responsibility, and with a desire not to reflect in any way upon the opinions of those from whom I differ. Only a brief two years ago therewas no member of this Parliament, and no citizen of Australia, who imagined that today we should be face to face with the question of conscription. In this land of ours - the freest under the sun - we little dreamt that within a few brief months we should be faced with the question of determining whether or not our manhood should be shackled with conscription; but we are face to face with it now. That being so, I am prepared to take my share of the responsibility, and shall treat the measure in that light. When  Mr. Hughes  was in London his speeches there were acclaimed here. They were acclaimed in every part of the Commonwealth. When he arrived in this country he had a triumphal march. He was hailed as a Heaven-born leader by every capitalistic paper.No man has ever left Australian shores for the heart of the Empire and acquitted himself so well as he did. I do not agree with some things he has said, or with some of the things he is doing today, but, speaking of him as a man, all the acclamation given to him as a man was richly deserted. But when he returned from his Empire mission, and had, with his colleagues, considered the situation facing the country, when it was announced that the policy of his Government was to submit the question of conscription to a referendum of the people, the capitalistic press to which I have referred, with the honorable exception of the  Age,  practically turned him down. Yesterday he was a Heaven-born leader; to-day he was nothing. Yesterday they cried  "Hosannah!";  to-day they cried " Crucify him !" He was a Heaven-born leader, but he did not lead in the direction which they thought he would take. They, therefore, turned him down, but in twenty-four hours they changed their minds, and now the same papers that decried him are again acclaiming him, which shows how little you can depend upon the whims and vagaries of certain people who write in the public press. I am against conscription of human life, and no vote of mine will ever bring about the conscription of human life, good, bad, or indifferent. We have been told by the Prime Minister and those who agree with him that it is essential to conscript the manhood of Australia in order to preserve our liberties. With that pronouncement I do not agree. Such a doctrine would have been right twelve months ago, when the fate of the Empire and its Allies was trembling in the balance. The position to-day, so far as this world-wide war is concerned, is entirely different from what it was then. The fate of the Empire and its Allies is not trembling in the balance. That is true of the fate of the Central Powers instead. Those who run surely can read, and when I make that statement I do not want it to be understood that I think the war is over. But the position is so much improved in our favour that it is not necessary to ask for the conscription of our manhood.  Senator Mullan,  in his very able address, dealt with the question of the cost which the Commonwealth would have to incur in the event of the Bill being indorsed by the people, but I would ask the Government why a financial statement in connexion with the resources of the Commonwealth has not yet been made? It is most remarkable that, whilst the Government have found ample time to bring forward this Bill, which purports to conscript our manhood, it has not yet had time to make a financial statement of the probable cost of that policy! This should have come from the Commonwealth Treasurer before the Bill was submitted. The Treasurer has not enjoyed good health during the past few weeks ; but a financial statement could have been made by the 
Prime Minister or another of his colleagues. The Prime Minister has been busily engaged in travelling from place to place, and I marvel at his vitality, but he could well have expended some of his energy in letting the people of Australia), understand their position in regard to borrowed money, and the obligations which will be entailed by an affirmative vote on. the 28th October. As it is, we are being asked to sign a cheque in blank. 
I am prepared to do so. It is only right that before Parliament places its imprimatur on the measure, we, the custodians of the public purse, and the people who have to foot, the bill, should be fully informed regarding the financial situation. I understand that another place has adjourned until Wednesday next, when a financial statement will be delivered. I cannot accept the statement of the Government that married men will not be called to the colours. The figures are too conclusive to allow me to do that. Should conscription become the law of the land, we shall not be able to give that assistance to the Empire for which the Imperial Army Council has asked unless we conscript married men. As to the conscription of wealth along with the conscription of life, it is true that the Prime Minister has' said that wealth will be conscripted in proportion to manhood, but he has not stated to what extent or in what manner wealth will be conscripted. 
It is impossible for the sacrifice of wealth to equal the sacrifice of life. No man, not even the illustrious Prime Minister, can put a value on human life. 
Should not the Prime Minister tell us exactly what he intends" to do. That was humanly possible. He should have told us exactly what he proposes to do with the wealth of the country, just as he has told us what ho proposes to do with that most sacred thing human life. That would have been the better course to take, and fairer to those who owe allegiance to him. It has been said that taxation can be introduced which will provide for the conscription of wealth. I do not think that is so. The people are already taxed fairly heavily, though the taxation is not in proportion to the ability to bear it. Those who pay the taxes pass them on to the worker and the consumer. Can any one stand on a public platform and deny that ? Consider the cost of living to-day. I marvel how it is possible for any workman in Australia who has to pay rent, and maintain a wife and family, to keep his own body and soul together, let alone carry out his responsibilities to those dependent upon him. Continue increasing taxation if you like, but every increase will be passed on to the worker and the consumer. That being the position to-day, unless wealth is conscripted the worker will not only be offering his life for his country, but will be paying practically the whole cost of the war. That is an indisputable fact. If it should happen that a majority of the Australian people vote in favour of the conscription of life, power will be given into the hands of the nine or ten men who form the National Government to control every man in the Commonwealth, and to direct him to go here, there, or wherever it is their will to send him. Human flesh and blood will be directed into a national pool controlled by the Government of the day, and if that should happen, surely to God they should have the' right to direct wealth in the same manner. 
I care not what  the ardent conscriptionist thinks; I am stating my opinion as to what should be. 
Has the honorable senator, any proof of that ? 
We are living in times when assurances are not of very much worth. My leader has said that he will conscript wealth in proportion to manhood ; but why is he not as definite in regard to that matter as he is in regard to the conscription of human life. 
I am making no attack on the Prime Minister. I am simply exercising my right as a member of the Senate to express my opinion, just as the Prime Minister has the right to express his opinions. I repeat that the Prime Minister might just as well have been as definite in regard to the conscription of wealth as he was in regard to the conscription of life. He should have given us details as to how the system will be applied. 
Another point is that if conscription is adopted we shall be draining this young nation of its manhood, and sending men overseas to do battle for us who might be necessary to defend us on our own shores. 
I re-echo that hope; but the honorable senator knows perfectly well that there is another menace hanging over our heads just as great as, if not greater than, the menace we are facing to-day on the far-flung battle-fields of Europe. I may not speak as freely on this question as I should like to do, because I will not violate the bond of secrecy into which we have entered, but if I were free to speak either in this chamber or outside, the public would be afforded a better idea as to the necessity for retaining our manhood within our shores. 
That is my desire. Australia, so far, has proved its earnestness about winning the war as soon as possible; it has done nobly and well. I know of. no portion of the Empire that can equal, let alone excel, Australia's record in this war. 
No braver men have ever sacrificed their lives for their country. 
I do not intend to do so. I am treating this matter from an Empire point of view, as well as from an Australian point of view, and I say that the Commonwealth has taken, and is taking, a noble share in the campaign, and has excelled the record of any other portion of the British Dominions. I am glad, indeed, that those men who went abroad to defend our country will have an opportunity of voting on the proposed referendum If there are any men who should have the right to vote on this question they are those who have volunteered to defend our liberties on the battle-field of the Old World. I congratulate the Government on having made that provision for them. When it was proposed to take a referendum on the alteration of the Constitution, I asked the Government whether it would be possible for soldiers who were then at the front to cast a vote, and .the answer was that ballotpapers could not be issued to soldiers at the front, and the Government had abandoned their intention of obtaining the votes of the soldiers, because it was found impracticable, and because the soldiers were under Imperial control at the front. That was on the 11th December of last year. If the proposal for soldiers to vote was impracticable then, how has it been made practicable to-day? 
I accept that explanation, but there were two answers to my question. Firstly, I was told that it was impracticable to take the soldiers' votes; and, secondly, I was told that our troops were  under  the Imperial control while they were at the front. 
No matter where our soldiers may be to-day, whether on a vessel on the way to the front or on a vessel returning to Australia, or whether at the scene of action, they are to have the right to vote. 
But in December last, no matter where they were, so long as they were outside Australia they could not be given the opportunity to vote and take part in a referendum. 
It is remarkable how arrangements are now made for that purpose. 
I make no imputations. I simply call attention to the fact that while it was impracticable to take a poll of the soldiers then, it is now found practicable, no matter where the soldiers may be. I am glad to see it. If it had not been for what I think was a mistake on the part of the Prime Minister a little while ago in offering another 50,000 men to the Empire, we would not have been asked to face this question of the conscription of Australian manhood. The wiser course would have been to maintain a supply of reinforcements for the divisions already in existence. 
Parliament was not consulted, but I do not suppose that any member of Parliament objected at the time. I simply say that it was a mistake. I admit that I am speaking in the light of after events. As the Prime Minister had made that offer, it. required an extra effort, which has unfortunately failed, and accentuated the position in which we find ourselves today. I believe that if the Prime Minister's mind were searched, he would admit, in the light of after events, that he had made a mistake in submitting this further offer of troops, when Australia was already doing very well. 
I did not object at the time, but there were many who did. We already had quite enough to do to keep our existing divisions reinforced, and if the extra troops had not been offered there would have been no need for a referendum to-day upon the question of the conscription of human life. 
I admit that we should honour it, and so far we have done so. 
We shall do it. The honorable senator should not cut one off in the middle of a sentence. If we had had the facilities more men could have gone. There are already sufficient men in camp, but the honorable senator knows as well as I do that the facilities for transporting the men were not available, and I question if they are available today. The honorable senator will not claim that they are. 
I pass on to another phase of the question. Why was Australia asked ,for more men, and .not Canada or South Africa, which are much nearer to the centre of the Empire ? Why have those two Dominions not been asked to send more? Why was Australia asked to send more troops ? 
I am not in any way decrying what South Africa has done, nor am I decrying anything that has been done by any of the Dominions. My question is a plain one. Why have the Dominions of South Africa and Canada not been asked by the Imperial Government to send more men ? 
If they had been, we should have heard of it. No better argument could have been used by the Government to carry their referendum proposals than a statement that the sister Dominions of South Africa and Canada had been asked to send more men. If such a request had been made, it would have been used by the Government in this case. I undertake to say that it has not been preferred, otherwise we should have heard of it. Whilst I do not decry what has been done by any of the Dominions, I do say that, in proportion to her population and having regard to her distance from the great theatre of war, Australia has done more than has any of the Dominions. Having regard to her population, to the distance she has to transport her troops oversea - 12,000 miles - and to the relative cost of training, equipping, feeding, and transporting her men, Australia has done more  than  any part of the Empire outside the heart of the Empire itself. Another matter to which I desire to refer is the proposed constitution of the appeal Courts. If the referendum be carried, opportunities will be given to men to show cause why they should not be conscripted. The Bill provides, first of all, that they must go before a police or stipendiary magistrate. If he refuses their application for an exemption, they may appeal to the Supreme Court of a State, and from that tribunal to the High Court. I enter an emphatic protest against this proposal, and in Committee should like to see it amended. Let us focus our attention upon this particular point. Take the case of a rich man and a poor man who desire to be exempted. Both appear before the magistrate, and, let us assume, the exemption in each case is disallowed. The rich man can afford to appeal to the Supreme Court, and from there to the High Court; the poor man cannot. He has to stop practically at the first Court; he cannot afford to go further.. The Bill should be so amended as to provide for the appointment of a board in different districts in each State, representative of rich and poor alike, so that a speedy determination can be made as to whether a man shall be exempt or not, and litigation thus avoided. Inevitably the rich man will be able to exhaust all the channels which the clause as it stands affords, whereas the poor man will be compelled to stop at the first Court. I commend to the Leader of the Senate the suggestion that this should be remedied - 
The poor man should not be practically compelled to go to the Supreme Court, and then to the High Court. He cannot afford to do so. 
He will not be able to do so because of lack of funds. Why should the rich man have the opportunity because he has the money ? 
I do not suggest that there should be only one Court, consisting of a police magistrate. I should not like to trust my destiny to such a tribunal. I should like a board- 
The honorable senator's interjection is, as usual, of an insulting character. I am not proposing a board for myself or of myself. What I suggest is that there should be in certain districts in each State a board comprising an industrial representative and an employers' representative, with an independent  chairman,  to settle such questions. I should hot like to trust myself entirely to the decision of either a police or stipendiary magistrate in such a matter. Another point is that it has been suggested that during this campaign it will not be necessary for leading articles and letters dealing with it, and published in our newspapers, to be signed. Is that so.? 
I understand that the statement was made in another place that during this campaign it would not be necessary for them to be signed. 
,So that during this campaign newspaper articles and letters relating to the . referendum will have to be signed? 
I am glad to have that assurance. Having said so much, I desire now to intimate that I am going to support the Bill. In view of my remarks, this may be considered strange, but it is not strange to my mind, x have no mandate from my constituents to conscript human life, nor have I any mandate from them not to conscript it. I believe in the principle of the referendum. It is a Labour principle, and one that I have favoured ever since I have been able to act and think for myself. I am not going to use it now as I would treat a suit of clothes - use it while it pleases me and cast it aside when it does not. I cannot do that with the principle of the referendum. There is a higher and a greater tribunal than that in which we are gathered to-night. That tribunal consists of the creators of this Parliament, and of me as a senator through the ballotbox. It is because I trust the people in all things that I trust them in this. I would not be worthy of the trust reposed in me if my vote meant that those most concerned would not have an opportunity to say yes or no on this great and most momentous issue. While I am against the conscription of human life, I am supporting the Bill in order that it may be submitted to that greater tribunal of which I have spoken. And when the Bill is before the people, if God spares me health and strength, I shall exercise my right as a citizen, and give my views on the public platforms of Western Australia as I have given them to-night. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Beady)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That the House do now adjourn. 
I have to ask honorable senators to try to bring the debate on the Referendum Bill to a conclusion to-morrow. 
Is the Minister for Defence aware of the fact that the  Argus  this morning printed an article on the subject of conscription which was not signed, notwithstanding the statement made to-night that all articles having reference to that issue must be signed? I understand that a difficulty has arisen, through no fault of the paper, but through the fault of the Prime Minister. The reason for the position seems to be that a writ for this referendum has been issued without the authority of law, and the newspapers are in a  position to defy the Government. As I say, a writ has been issued without authority, and the result is that a great morning paper has been able to laugh at the restrictions sought to be imposed, and to publish an unsigned article regarding conscription. I do not know whether this is done with the connivance of the Government or not ; but, as I have said, it really means that a writ has been issued without the authority of law. What does the Leader of the Senate intend to do ? Does he intend to ask the newspapers to recognise the spirit of the law? The Government have issued an illegal proclamation, which will remain illegal until it is sanctioned by Parliament. 
I shall bring the matter under the notice of the Minister who controls the administration of the Electoral Act. I am not aware of the facts as stated, nor do I know whether they amount to a breach of the law or not. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 11.3 p.m. 
Is the Minister for Defence in a position to reply to a question I have asked concerning the imposition of fines and penalties on. soldiers in the Bendigo Camp? 
The honorable senator asked- 
Will he cause inquiries to be made as regards the number and amount  of  lines and penalties inflicted on soldiers in the Bendigo Military Camp since and during the appointment of  Major Ebeling  and Captain Boss  as  Officer Commanding and Adjutant respectively, and state how this compares with the same camp under previous officers? 
The following information has been supplied to me: - 

<graphic href="080332191609224_0_0.jpg"></graphic>

The increase in the  number  of cases dealt with by  Major Ebeling  is attributed to the fact that this officer was  in  charge during a period in which a large number of men had missed embarkation and penalties inflicted covered the offences of avoiding embarkation and subsequent  offences  by these men. 
Yesterday, the Minister for, Defence, replying to a question on notice, said that it is not intended to issue military uniforms except to clerks who are now attested, or to employees subsequently attested. I ask if the reply means that it is intended toissue military uniforms to other employees as well as clerks who are attested, or will subsequently be attested? 
The intention is to issue uniforms to those who are attested, whether clerks or not. Only persons attested as soldiers may lawfully wear military uniforms. 
asked -the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
If the task imposed upon Australia by the Prime Minister's proposals, viz., to raise 32,500 men during the month of September, is still necessary? 
Before issuing any proclamation under sections 59 and 60. of the Defence Act, calling up men for service, will he communicate with  the Imperial authorities with the view of ascertaining the number of men that have been actually sent to the front as reinforcements from the Australians assembled in England? 
If the reply be received in time, will it  be  made public before any proclamation is issued? 
The answers are - 
Yes. 2 and 3. It is not seen what purpose would be served by such action. The Army Council, before sending their communication, were fully informed as to the number of reinforcements available, both here and oversea. 
asked the Min  ister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is he aware that two prominent civil servants (Messrs. Kilgour and Beeket), on leave from the Northern Territory, were paraded on board ship at Brisbane, on 29th August, and had their luggage searched by the military authorities there? 
Who instigated this procedure? 
Under whose instructions was it carried out? 
Was anything of an incriminating nature found in their possession? 
If not, what action does the Government intend to take regarding those responsible? 
Inquiries are being made into this matter. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Whether, in view of the intention of the Government to call up certain men for active service, the Government intend to call to the colours subjects of allied countries resident in Australia, or,asan alternative, cause such subjects to be repatriated? 
The subjects of allied . countries are not liable for active service under the Commonwealth Government, but two at least of the allied nations have advised their nationals to enlist in the Commonwealth Forces, and many have done so. 
France and 
Russia. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  'upon notice - 
Will the Minister inform the Senate whether all Frenchmen, Italians, andRussians of fighting age, and resident in Australia, have been advised by the respective Consuls to report themselves for service? 
Will the Minister also inform the Senate the total number of Frenchmen, Italians, and Russians who have left Australia for active service? 
The answers are - 
It is understood that the Consuls for France and Russia have advised to, this effect, but we have no information with respect to Italy. 
It is regretted that this information is not available. 
In addressing myself to this motion, I realize that we have arrived at one of the greatest crises, indeed the greatest crisis, in the history of this Parliament and of the Australian nation. 
I speak peculiarly and particularly as a representative of Australia. I say at the outset that I support the proposal for a referendum, because I believe that the people of the whole Continent are those best qualified to decide the question which has been raised, it being they who will have to bear the effects of the decision arrived at. Look at it as I may, I cannot take the view of some of my honorable friends who, because they do not believe in conscription, object to this referendum. They have a right to their view, and I do not question their motives, but, having been a humble student of Democracy, it appears to me that the members of the Labour party, who have advocated the principle of the referendum, and particularly an initiative referendum, whereby the whole people may decide every great question, should not shrink, or pause, or falter when the issue happens to be one which they may wish to have decided in the negative. If the principle of the referendum is sound, it should be made to apply equally to proposals which we favour and to those which we oppose. 
In this instance, I shall not vote against the submission to the people of the conscription proposals of the Government, although. I hope that an affirmative answer will not be given to the question to be asked. We have had a good many exhibitions of inconsistency inregard to the principle of the referendum in Tasmania. Honorable senators opposed to us have repeatedly supported the submission of questions to the people when it suited them to do so, and opposed the referendum at other times. I am not going to be. guilty of that inconsistency. At the same time, I  am in opposition to the policy of the Government in anticipating the will of the people of Australia regarding military service. I cannot support their action in calling up men for training before the people have said whether the principle of compulsion is to be adopted. 
No ; but it is known to every honorable senator that men are being called up, not for home defence, to which I would not object, but for training for service abroad in anticipation of an affirmative vote of the people. 
Were I to vote against the Bill, I should vote against the principle of the referendum, and that I am not prepared to do. In proposing to inaugurate a policy of conscription, the Government have, in my opinion, made a grave mistake. Prior to the introduction of this proposal for conscription, we had in  Australia a nation absolutely unanimous as to the conduct of the war; all slight differences of opinion had been dispersed and replaced by a remarkable unanimity of purpose; few persons were actuated by  any  other motive than that of successfully carrying on the war. What will be the effect of the Government's proposal ? That splendid singleness of purpose, and that cohesion of all parts of the continent, will disappear, and be replaced by discord, dissatisfaction, strife of the worst possible kind, angry recriminations, and feelings of bitterness induced by a referendum fight. Both sides will exert themselves to do their utmost to secure what they believe to be right, and to the outside world we shall present the spectacle, not of a united Australia, but rather of a warring and disunited continent. The Government's policy will divide the nation and introduce suspicion - disorder will be avoided, I trust - but from that standpoint Ministers have made a grave mistake. 
Why has this proposal been brought forward ? Twelve months ago we read of German successes everywhere and every day; we had to evacuate the Dardanelles; Servia was overrun by the enemy; the Germans were steadily encroaching inch by inch on Verdun; and though the actual position may have been skilfully concealed in the headlines of the newspapers, we could not help feeling that things were going badly with the Allies, and that they were not holding their own. What was the stand-point of the public then ? Every one was optimistic, and assured of victory; so much so that I frequently used to ask myself whether we were not like ostriches, hiding our heads in the sand and refusing to look at the stern facts. Twelve months ago the calm assurance of the man in the street that we were going to win was amazing. To-day, when we know, from evidence given daily in the press, and from statements by leading men in the Empire, that the position of the Allies has improved, we have the anachronism of an urgent request for men. Will honorable members accept the word of  Mr. Bonar  Law, quoted by  Senator Findley  last night, and General Joffre, that Germany is defeated ? 
They say now what they would not say twelve months ago, when the outlook was black. 
It is because they know the facts that they say what they do. Although the outlook is brighter today, although the horizon is clearer, we find, instead of optimism, nothing but pessimism and gloom. From the utterances of the Prime Minister and many supporters of conscription, one would imagine that the Empire was tottering to its fall, and that, unless we can send 100,000 men from Australia to the fields of Flanders, we may as well give up the ghost and become slaves to the Germans. On the other hand, General Joffre and  Mr. Bonar  Law say that Germany isdefeated, and that it is only a matter of time before we drive the enemy back. 
The Allies have the men. Twelve months ago, when they were short of men, we were told that the Allies had plenty of men. To-day, when they have the men, we are told that they require more. No. Victory is only a matter of time. Let me read the following cablegram that appeared in our newspapers on the 16th of this month - 

 Mr. Paul Cravath,  a preeminent International lawyer, has returned from a visit to the Somme and Verdun front. In an interview lie said lie was confident Germany's doom was only a matter of time. " The German armies which lost at the Marne to greatly inferior forces," he proceeded, " cannot hope to win against the superior, highly-organized forces now facing them." 
Here is another paragraph - 
The special correspondent of the New York  World  at the British front on the Somme cables: - "Despite the steady advance, the British command does not look for a quick termination of the war. The British are determined to carry the war on to German soil. The Somme reinforcements are literally thick from the battle front to the sea. 
That is the shortage of men about which we are hearing - 
The Germans are concentrating against the British. Germany has 2,000,000 troops in France. Of these, 700,000 are against the British. 
The allied armies are making steady headway. First they cut the German wire entanglements by shell tire, and then there is a continuous hail of trench bombs. Great Britain's army is of splendid material. At least 2,000,000 men could be thrown against the Germans at one point without touching the reserves at home. At the present rate of losses, Great Britain could fight to the next summer without new troops; but if the present means continue Germany, by then, will be driven out of France. 
Does that war correspondent know more about the position than the Imperial War Council? 
A neutral officer who has been with the Turkish armies from the beginning of hostilities assured me that three divisions disembarked on that fatal day in March might have marched triumphantly from the heel to the neck of the Gallipoli Peninsula at  Bulair.  This statement was based upon the knowledge of the number of Turkish troops in the sector at that time, and their state of preparedness. A German officer  confirmed this assertion. He argued that the loss of this opportunity stamped the British staff, or those who planned the coup, as men of mediocre military calibre. 
Suppose. 20,000 troops were promised to assist the manoeuvres of the Allied Fleets, this fact only emphasizes the error in attempting the attack with battleships alone. 
He makes other statements which are even worse. 
Does the honorable senator claim that they are correct? 
Has there ever been a war in which mistakes have not been made? 
The Under-Secretary of State for War (Lord Derby), in interviews with American newspaper correspondents, does not agree with those who think that the war will end in six months. He believes that it will last over the winter. 
I am not hiding anything. The honorable senator cannot say that I am misquoting. The cable message continues - 
His recent visit to the West front has left him even more certain of victory for the Allies. 
He does not say when he thinks the war will end. 
Are we to believe our own authorities and to contradict those, right on the spot, in England, who express a different view? But, whatever may be said as to the duration of the war, the one primary outstanding fact is that all whose opinions are worth while are agreed that we shall win. That being so, why this pessimism and whining? Why these speeches made with the object of trying to dragoon people into the belief that if we do not conscript men Germany will win the war? It is unworthy and unfair, and shows a weak case when an attempt is made to play on the emotions, the passions, and the 'susceptibilities of the people. ' Let us give the people hard facts and we shall have no cause to fear the result. 

 Senator Shannon has asked me what policy I would have adopted. That is a fair question. I should have kept Australia absolutely solid. I would have called up the men of Australia for home defence, and would have done so in such a way as not to interfere with their ordinary avocations. I should have done this by requiring them to attend Saturday afternoon and evening parades. 
Having said so much, I invite honorable senators to consider the statements that our Leader and his Government are making to-day. 'That they believe in them, I do not doubt; I do not question their sincerity in making them. But if, as we have been told from the public platform, we are in great danger of the Germans coming here - if everything we have, not only the manhood of Australia, but every particle of our wealth and of our resources is threatened - then, why should we not go to the logical conclusion of that belief] If all we have is in danger - if it is hanging by a mere thread - then let us straightway go on soldier's pay and put the rest of our salaries and our wealth into a common pool. 
Let the honorable senator make a start with that this afternoon. Let him voluntarily conscript his wealth. 
The toilers in factories are being forced to work for starvation wages, and dare not make a protest. Conscription would mean for your workers- 
That is the workers of England - the first step towards industrial slavery and the end of their free action in the economic field, both during and after the war. It would be a terrible weapon in the hands- of your employers, 8s it is actually in the hands of French employers. Already they are demanding the continuance after the war of the arbitrary discipline and general draconian conditions of labour that exist in the factories to-day. Some have passed resolutions demanding the permanent return of a twelve-hour day, mtd even to prolong the hours of labour without the payment of overtime. The workers cannot express their opinions freely; all action on their part is prohibited; and their protests are smothered and repressed by courts martial. 
That is clear enough. We could furnish numerous instances of what has happened under conscription in Germany. 
The difference is that a Labour Government is not in power there. 
Why ? Is the honorable senator going to vote against the Government t 
We do not want any more recruits for the army. We are getting more than we can equip. What we want is not compulsion for the army, but compulsion for the workshop. 
He wanted more munitions. 
I am in favour of a form of conscription that would not only bring the slacker into the ranks of the soldiers, but would likewise embrace industrial organization. 
That is clear and definite. I do not believe this Government would do that, but we have no guarantee that the war will last longer than the next election, and if the other side come into power, what would be the position of the working man? It will be too late to say that he should have voted "No" at the referendum. His opportunity will be gone. He will be absolutely in the power of any Government that occupies the Treasury bench. 
SenatorREADY. - That is not likely to occur with trade unionists. You have only to tell the men in the workshops of Australia that the men at the front want things, and they will work overtime, if necessary, to make them. The honorable senator knows that such an imputation on trade unionists is unwarranted. 
He can stop out. 
I am taking a most liberal and fair estimate. If we conscript these 60,000 or 70,000, we shall have no more single men available. And how long will it take to conscript these men? We shall take 48,000 in the first two months, and in three months' time the 70,000 will be exhausted. 
This is no assumption. Then let us say that the available single men will be sufficient for four months, when, I contend, we must inevitably take married men. If that be so, why not honestly and honorably tell the people the fact?  Senator Pearce  says that these are hypothetical calculations, but I remind the . honorable gentleman that the provision of the necessary transports is also an hypothetical calculation.  Senator Pearce  says that we have the necessary ships, and we believe him; but if mine are hypothetical calculations, it is a dead mathematical certainty that under conscription we shall, in three or four months at the longest, be conscripting married men. This reminds me of a story I heard in my childhood about a giant who had caught eight men, and, being a cannibal, was consuming one of them each week. One of the men claimed that, as he had done a lot of work for the giant, and had made himself agreeable, he ought to be spared, and the giant was good enough to say that, under the circumstances, he would eat that man last. Under conscription the married men will be " eaten last." So long as it is made known that the married men will be called upon, people will vote with their eyes open; but it is not wise, or generous, or fair- 
There is no bogy about the solid facts of the position. There are only 152,000 single men, and there are no means by which we can make them into 500,000. Let us place the facts before the public, and leave the public to place their own construction upon them. 
And I say that the supply of single men will not last three months. 
It has been said that Australia has not done enough, and some of us have been ridiculed for contending that she hasdone very well. We think that Australia can do more, but not so much as conscription asks for. We would allow men who volunteered to go, but we do not think that Australia can. stand the strain of conscription. When we compare Australia's position with that of Canada, we can realize that we have done our share and a bit more. 
That is so; in some regards Australia is in a worse position than that Dominion. Australia is an isolated island continent, whereas Canada is closer Home, and under the friendly wing of the United States of America. In our case, if we were attacked, it would take time for assistance to reach us; and there is need for fargreater care in our case than in that of Canada. 
No; it leads to the question with which I now propose to deal. Canada, to begin 'with, never raised a Navy, whereas we, at the cost of many millions, provided a Navy which admirably protected our outposts and the neighbouring Dominion. 
That might be necessary at the start; but we found the money and the Navy. I have obtained the latest figures available, and they throw light on the relative positions of Australia and Canada. The population of Canada is 8,400,000, or close on 9,000,000, whereas our population is 5,000,000. In July, 1916, the Canadian recruits numbered 350,655, while the Australian recruits were 282,000. In the home camps in Canada there were 175,000 men - showing that the Dominion is keeping a large home reserve - while in the Australian camps there were 43,000. In England and on the water Canada had 60,000, and Australia 60,000, while on the various fronts Canada had 70,000, and Australia 125,000 men. Wastage, losses, &amp;c, were, in the case of Canada, 40,000, and in the case of Australia 55,000. Based on the Australian enlistments, Canada ought to show 485,000 recruits, and 72,000 men in the home camps; 100,800 men in England and on the water; 210,000 at the various fronts, with a wastage and 'losses of 92,400. To reverse the process, Australia, on the Canadian enlistments, should show 208,723 recruits; 104,166 in the home camps; 35,700 in England and on the water; 41,100 at the various fronts, with a wastage and losses of 23,810. Thus, on Canada's figures, we have enlisted 74,000 men above our population percentage basis, have 60,000 less in home camps, have 25,220 more on the water and in English camps, and have 83,500 more on the various fronts, while our wastage and losses, instead of being 55,000, should be under 24,000. The comparison is all in favour of Australia; and yet we are told that we have not done enough. That I regard as a slur and a libel in face of what we have done. 
I should her© like to quote speeches made in the Canadian House of Commons in January of this year by  Sir Wilfrid  Laurier, Leader of the Liberal Opposition and ex-Prime Minister, and by  Sir Robert  Borden, Prime Minister.  Sir Wilfrid  Laurier said -  . . he would not discuss to-day the announcement of  Sir Robert  Borden on New Year's Day that Canada- would raise halfamillion men. It seemed like a large contract; but if it was essential to carry on the fight, then he would acquiesce. They must repel at once the idea that it was the first step towards conscription. There must be no conscription in Canada. There had been mcn in this House who had said that the naval law was the first step towards conscription. The naval law was still on the statute-book, and there was no conscription in England. He had expected that England would be able to carry on the war under the old system, but the British Government had thought otherwise. Conditions were not the same in Great Britain as in Canada. For one thing, conscription could not be passed here without giving a blow to immigration; already it was affecting immigration from the United States. 
These remarks by  Sir Wilfrid  Laurier on conscription were replied to by  Sir Robert  Borden as follows: - 
In the first few months of the war, I clearly stated that there would not be conscription in Canada. I repeat that statement to-day. 
The newspaper report of the speech proceeded : - 
He added that he knew that there had been in the American press certain reports of some kind of compulsion, but there was no truth in it. 
Regarding the increase in the Canadian force, he said that it must be remembered that this is the greatest struggle the Empire has ever known; but it will be won without doubt if we make the necessary sacrifices. 
These are sacrifices which can be made without conscripting manhood. And both  Canada and Australia can aid much more effectively without conscription. 
So far as I know, Canada's patriotism has never been questioned. We have also to consider the financial conditions. Other honorable senators, notably  Senator Mullan  and  Senator Findley,  have touched on the effect the drain by conscription will have on production and our industrial and business relations. Any man who knows the conditions of the labour market in the various States must anticipate with dread the effect of the proposed withdrawal of men. The list of exemptions must lengthen, and the men singled out for service will be incensed because, through no fault of their own, they are compelled to serve, while others remain behind. What is the financial position of Australia ? Do honorable senators imagine that, year after year, we can go on contributing men without feeling the financial strain, and without seriously endangering our national credit? We cannot " have our cake and eat it " - a point with which  Senator Findley  dealt most admirably. I wish to supplement that honorable senator's argument with a few bald facts that will make the financial position quite clear. The States debts or Australia amount in round figures to £370,000,000, while the Commonwealth debt is already considerably over £100,000,000. 
Our debt to date is well over the £100,000,000 mark. Then the note issue, put it as we may, is a debt of £30,000,000 owing to the people. Thus we see that, in round figures, Commonwealth and States owe £500,000,000. Thank God, our financial position is still strong; but we must exercise care in every direction. According to  Knibbs,  our national assets amount to £1,000,000,000; in other words, we have made ourselves liable to the extent of half our national assets, and the facts must be faced calmly and boldly. 
We have to consider the facts and the economic conduct of this war. 
Australians who vote for conscription will realize that my picture of the whole of us being on soldiers' wages is not so much overdrawn as they imagine. We are spending £1,750,000 a week on the war. The adoption of the proposals of the Government will increase that expenditure to £2,500,000. While our money is being used up our production must go on. But if we take men away from the fields, the factories, and the workshops, our production of wealth must decrease, and it is clear that we cannot burn the candle at both ends. If conscription is introduced, there will not be much left of our national asset should the war last for eighteen months. 
I admit that; but if we send them away under the voluntary system, and . send a less number of men, we shall not be so close to the margin of economic safety as we should be under a  system of  conscription. 
There is a great deal of difference. 
We shall run out of men if it lasts for another twelve months, according to the figures submitted by the Government. Honorable senators must realize that there is a limit to the number of men that Australia can supply. No blinking of the facts can alter tha. We could maintain four divisions in the field under the voluntary system. This would involve heavy taxation, but it could be done with financial safety, whilst the Government proposal involves the taking of men from production and the burning of the candle at both ends. We have four divisions of Infantry at the front, and one of Light Horse, and there is another Infantry division in process of formation. What is to be done with the new division? Is it to be asked to take over another portion of the British line? If it is not, what will be the use of it? We are told that 20,000 men will be required this month for the new division, and 12,500 for reinforcements. We should be told what is to be done with the new division when it is formed. If the men recruited for the new division were to be used as reinforcements, the present line held by Australian troops could be maintained without conscription. If, instead of adopting that course, a new division is to be formed, it must mean that our line is to be extended. Could we not refrain from putting that new division into the firing line and keep our present divisions adequately reinforced as an alternative? I think that if we adopted that course we could carry it out under £he voluntary system. There is another aspect of conscription which deserves consideration. Many of our soldiers and their relatives in Australia fear that with the introduction of conscription there will be a reduction of our soldiers' pay. 
I admit that for what our soldiers are doing for us no pay could be too high. Some persons have said openly, and it is believed by others who are not so frank, that the present rate of soldiers' pay cannot last. Quoting from  Hansard  for this session, page 2394, I find that  Senator Bakhap  said - 
The wisest policy for Australia is to ascertain the number of men that we should, according to a population basis, supply to the Forces of the Empire, make preparation to enlist them, compulsorily, if necessary, and then pay them certainly not more than the British voluntarily enlisted soldiers are receiving in the trenches. 
SenatorReady. - And that is1s. 2d. a day. 
Yes. The honorable senator may make what use he chooses of the statement. 

 Senator Bakhap repeated that again and again. There are some persons who will not advocate that now; but, should conscription be adopted, we shall find, after it has been in force for some time that it will be insidiously argued that we cannot afford to maintain the present rate of pay. It will be said that we cannot find the money, and that, in the circumstances, the soldiers must accept less pay.  Senator Bakhap'  s utterances in this chamber, as a member of the Liberal party, shows that the fears entertained by soldiers and their relatives are not altogether groundless. 
I trust that the people of Australia will reject the Government proposal. I hope that both those who are in favour of conscription and those who are against it will carry on the discussion on the question apart from prejudice, and will not resort to appeals to feelings and emotions and to catch-cries calculated to distract the attention of the people from the facts. It is our solemn duty as legislators and leaders of the people to place the matter so clearly before them that after the vote is taken no elector will be entitled to say, " We thought so-and-so, but unfortunately we have discovered that we were wrong." It is our duty to take a stand according to our light on this important question, regardless of considerations concerning our political career, and whether the course we believe to be right be popular or not. We should put the truth as we see it to those whom we represent. I know that the cry in favour of conscription is a popular one. 
I say that we have contributed a fair number of men to carry on the war, and that we should set ourselves to the work of training Australians for home defence. This policy may be unpopular to-day, but the people will realize its value to-morrow. When the proposal for conscription is defeated at the referendum, as I hope it will be, the one clear duty before us will be to train the men of this country for home defence. We must undertake every industry that we can legitimately conduct, and must be prepared to supply our needs later on in the matter of big guns and ammunition. 
.- The speeches we have so far heard on this very important question have thrown a great deal of light upon the proposal to be submitted to the electors at the referendum. It would be as well to remember that we are not, at this juncture, discussing the merits or demerits, or the justice or injustice of conscription, but whether the supreme authority, the people of Australia, should be consulted before the objectionable policy of conscription is adopted. Before offering the observations I propose to address to the Senate on that question, I may be permitted to say a few words in reply to  the abuse and vilification which has been directed against the distinguished gentleman who, to-day, leads the Australian Labour party. I want to say right here and now that in all circumstances we should stand out for absolute freedom of speech and freedom of thought in the consideration of this great national question. If  Mr. Hughes  believes that certain lines of policy are essential in the interests of the country and the Empire, surely those who have been associated with him so long, and have profited so much by that association, should be the first in this Parliament and in the country to do him justice, and to admit that he is actuated by none but the highest possible patriotic and national motives. Although I may be prepared to combat his arguments and do all I can to defeat his present proposal, I feel bound to denounce the unjust, mean, and contemptible charges of treachery which have been levelled at this man who has done nothing to deserve them. I have read some disreputable, mean, and unworthy criticisms in the Tory press concerning him in years gone by, when he has been fighting grand battles for his party, but I have had to wait until now for the meanest and most contemptible criticisms ever directed against him, and they have come from members of his own party, both inside and outside of Parliament. 
The Prime Minister is no new convert to conscription. He has advocated it all his life, and, indeed, he is responsible for the compulsory clauses in our Defence Act. 
Neither does he propose now to send men out of Australia. 
If honorable senators will only look fairly at- the facts, they will realize that the Prime Minister is consulting the people of Australia Tor the necessary authority to do that which he thinks is the proper thing in connexion with this war. If the people decide against conscription, under no circumstances will he send a man out of this country. 
My memory on this subject is quite clear, and the Leader of the Government will correct me if I am wrong. I repeat that the Prime Minister said over and over again that if the people of Australia refuse to give the Government the authority they are meeking in this referendum, they will not send one man out of Australia against his will. 
I appeal to the Minister for Defence to say if the statement I have attributed to the Prime Minister is nob the correct one. 
I am satisfied that  Mr. Hughes  will do only that which, he has told the people he will do. If I did net have that confidence in him he would net be my leader for five minutes longer Ld me, however, come back to the question of the debt that we owe to the Prime Minister. Who but  Mr. Hughes  has been the champion of labour, the champion of industrial legislation in Australia for the last eight or ten years? Who but the Prime Minister has carried the burden of the Labour movement for several years in the other Chamber by answering the arguments of legal luminaries, and among them some of the greatest in this country ? Who but the Prime Minister has sat up night after night preparing the case for the next day from a Labour point of view in the Parliament of Australia? The Prime Minister has sacrificed much, has done much, and is willing to do much more for the Labour movement in this country. Notwithstanding all that he has done, he is being vilified by these nincompoops outside as a traitor. 
I am referring to some of those men outside who have been abusing William Morris Hughes in connexion with this matter, by saying he is a traitor. I hope that is definite enough. I want to say now that I am no advocate of conscription, and I wish to make my position perfectly clear. I am as much opposed to conscription as any other member of this Chamber; but my opposition to it will not carry me to the extent of vilifying any other member who holds the opposite view in this or any other Chamber, or anywhere else. 
I have done nothing of the kind. I intend to support the passage of this Bill under which it is proposed to consult the people of Australia; but I shall oppose the question on the platform in my State. If, however, the people of Australia decide, by a substantial majority, in favour of conscription for active service abroad I shall vote to give effect to their will. That is my position, and in my opinion that is the only logical position that any man claiming to be a Democrat can take up. 
Instead of taking an autocratic course, the Prime Minister has adopted the democratic course of referring this matter to the people, and is prepared to stand by their decision. Those who favour this Bill have a dual obligation, viz., to support its passage through this Parliament, and then, when the wishes of the people are made known, to give effect to them. Early in this discussion I was disappointed that only one question, that of conscripting men, was to be submitted to the people. Every one knows that the three factors in the successful prosecution of the war are men, material, and money. All along the line we have been getting excited over the question of raising men, and still more men; but no one has become excited about raising the other two equally necessary factors. The Government have unlimited powers of taxation, and having confidence in the Government, I am prepared to trust them to do the fair thing in their financial proposals, namely, to compel those who hold the wealth of Australia to do their fair share - and indeed more than their share - to make some sacrifices in their contributions to the funds necessary for this war. I am satisfied, and I think that honorable senators must also be satisfied, that when these proposals come before us, there will not be unanimity, as there is to-day concerning the conscription of men, between the Labour party and the party in opposition. When the financial proposals are laid before them in detail, I feel sure there will be a sharp line of demarcation between the two parties. 
That is a mild and probably a merited rebuke. I shall wait and see. I sincerely hope also that I shall be disappointed, and that members opposite will as whole-heartedly cooperate in the raising of money as they are prepared to co-operate in the raising of men. 
I shall be very glad to hear the honorable senator, more particularly if his views on this subject harmonize with my own. 
SenatorLONG. - I am willing for the present to leave the question of raising money in the hands of the Government; but I am not satisfied with the way in which the question of material necessary for this war has been handled. I suppose it would be impertinent for me to offer any criticism of the Imperial Government in that connexion; but I have no hesitation in saying that they have been even more lax than we have been in Australia. During the last eighteen months or more the Government of this country have very properly commandeered the whole output of the woollen mills, a course of action which resulted in a very considerable benefit. 
Yes; but that they have not exercised that power is the ground of my complaint against them. If, in any engineering shop, there was a piece of machinery suitable for the manufacture of equipment and munitions, the Government stepped in and took possession of it, a perfectly proper thing to do; but while they were prepared to impose a disability on the small engineering shops and a handicap on the woollen mills- 
The woollen mills have suffered no harm. 

 Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.30 p.m. 

We, as Germany's most formidable antagonist, should coldly and scientifically arrange our national life to meet the supreme effort. We should place food supplies and prices on a war basis. The Government should charter all shipping at Admiralty rates. The rise in freights is an absolute scandal. We should control fuel distribution, and issue meat and bread tickets, which would be preferable to regulating consumption by high prices. 
That is the opinion of one of England's leading statesmen, who has at last awakened to the necessity of the Government controlling national resources. The Government of Australia, in its more limited sphere, might well follow his advice and the example of the Imperial Government by taking control of the railways, coal mines, and other services essential to the war. There are those who say that Australia has not done enough in this war, and has not yet discharged her duty to the Empire. That is a slander upon the country. The part that we have played is under the circumstances a magnificent one. Not only has Australia, under the voluntary system, contributed a force of 300,000 men, but she has contributed a Navy which has played a very important part in the naval activity of the Empire. No other Dominion can boast of having done so much. Although the Commonwealth is the most distant of the self-governing portions of the Empire, she has, in proportion to population, contributed more men, more money, and more ships than any of the sister Dominions. Those who say that Australia has not played her part nobly in this contest are not doing justice to their country. The voluntary system has achieved all that its most sanguine supporters expected from it, and the results have been magnificent. The falling off in enlistments now is due, not to the cooling of sentiment, which is just as warm now as on the day when we sent our first men away, but to the implacable and inevitable logic of  arith-  metic. To send away 16,500 men a month means the losing of 198,000 men in a year, or twice that number in two years, and it is not beyond the bounds of possibility that the war may continue for another two years. Figures show that we cannot continue to send away so large a number of men, because they are not here to send. Preceding speakers have pointed out that we have nearly reached the limit of available men, and that within three months at the outside we shall have exhausted our supply of available single men. Having regard to those who must be kept here for the carrying on of necessary industries, we shall, before the end of the year, have exhausted our stock of eligible fighting men. The question therefore arises, " Are we justified in sending more men out of the country?" It has been said that Australia has a more serious menace than that of Germany. If it be true, and we have no reason to doubt the authority for the statement, every man who leaves Australia increases her defencelessness. In proportion to population we have sent away almost twice as many men as Canada, and have therefore done all that can be reasonably expected of us. Moreover, Canada can never, under any circumstances, be exposed to the perils that threaten Australia. She is as safe, geographically, as is the United Kingdom. 
Does the honorable senator know what number of men has been sent from Canada? 
It is a fact that when the enemy is beginning to become exhausted we are  ready  to pour into the field troops of such quality as to have engendered the conviction of victory. We are federating the Empire in this struggle for yet greater enterprises on behalf of mankind. 
At about the same time Lord Northcliffe, whom we might reasonably expect to be able to speak with some knowledge of the position, in an article in the  Times  describing the vastness and high efficiency of the British Army establishments in Prance, stated that striking improvements had been made in economy and soldiering, and he drew a pen-picture . of the " wonderful transport system, also of the railways, endless lines of telephones and factory plants which rival the world's largest industrial enterprises." A few days later  Mr. Lloyd  George said - 
The Allies are drawing tighter every day the iron ring which they have put around the enemy..... The day is not far distant when Germany must crumble. 
Surely such statements as these justify the belief, and certainly the hope, that the time is not very far distant when the efforts of the Allies will be successful, and Germany will be beaten absolutely to her knees, without any further call upon the resources of Australia. A weakness of the referendum proposal may be said to be the fact that, while all are entitled to a voice as to whether conscription shall be imposed, very few will be penalized by the imposition of it; but I do not agree with the contention. I think that it is very difficult to find any person in Australia who will not be concerned or interested in the decision to be given by the people. It is said" that women, who are not called upon to fight, should not be permitted to vote; but I hold that no  section of a community at war suffers more keenly than the women, and to deny them a voice on this issue would be cruel and unfair. I am in entire accord with the proposal to poll the votes of the soldiers at the front, but one flaw in it is its limitation. I think that every soldier on active service, no matter what his age may be, should be entitled to a vote on this question. The lad of eighteen years of age, who is physically and mentally capable of discharging the duties of a soldier, and is doing so, is also physically and mentally capable of exercising a vote on a matter of this kind. I have a boy who will not be twenty years of age until November next, and by that time he will have been two years at the front. It is not an isolated case. These boys - for they, are only boys - should not be denied the right to vote on a question of this character. This referendum is upon a national question, and should be conducted in a reasonable and logical manner. The most appropriate way' of conducting meetings in any centres or country districts will be by having the platform occupied by persons supporting both sides. 
I express my pleasure, and, I believe, the pleasure of the Senate generally, at the moderation which marked the utterances of the last  speaker  in the views he expressed and the language he employed, more particularly in his references to those who differed from him. It was a speech entirely free from many of those defects which have marked some utterances since the debate commenced. I should like to make reference to one of the closing statements of the honorable senator. He assumes that honorable senators of the Liberal party who are supporting the Bill are necessarily expressing a belief in the principles of the referendum as applied to a matter of this kind. I have already said that I am accepting it as a necessity arising out of the circumstances which confront us. I am in the position of .a man who  is in a room when a cry of fire is raised and finds the door locked against him. Because that man finds an exit through the window, is it to be said that he holds the belief that the window is the proper means of leaving or finding access to a room ? I am supporting the referendum because I am in that position. That is the only practical way I see out of the difficulty confronting us. I regard this as a window to escape from a room the door of which is bolted by the known political convictions of members of this Chamber. 
I have never listened to such a continuity of self-destructive criticism as that which has been addressed to the Chamber in this debate. Although only four honorable senators have addressed you, I think .hardly a single argument has been advanced by one of them which has not been successfully met by an argument advanced by another, yet they are all on the same side. I propose to refer to some of these pleasing contradictions, more particularly on the part of the small minority that voted against the first reading yesterday. Unlike the last  speaker,  who is supporting the Bill, although opposed to an affirmative answer to the question to be submitted to the people, they were actually against referring the matter to the people at all, although they are members of a party which has had as one of the main planks of its platform for many years the principle of the initiative and referendum. When an opportunity arises, as it has on this occasion, to submit a referendum, they turn round and say, in effect, " Whilst we regard it as essential to the proper working of Democracy that the plank should be there as a fixed institution, when there is an opportunity of using it we are absolutely opposed to it." Let me remind them that if that plank of ' their platform had become law, and the initiative and referendum were in existence to-day as part of our political machinery, the people themselves, without consulting Parliament, could have expressed the opinion which we are inviting them to place on record. Yet these stalwart Democrats, these " true-blue merinoes,"  who have, in season and out of season, at convention after convention, and on public platform after public platform, held up the initiative and referendum as the coping-stone of the democratic arch, when they have a chance of utilizing it, are found voting to prevent the people giving expression to their will. 
Where do you get your "true-blue  merinoes"  from? 
The debate so far has largely proceeded not so much on the principle of the referendum as on the subject which is to be referred to the people. That is quite natural, because, after all, the Bill itself is merely a machine to enable a decision to be arrived at upon the main question confronting us. T propose therefore to deal with the question covered by the Bill - the element of compulsion as applied to service for military purposes. I ask myself, and invite others to ask themselves, " From whom does the opposition to compulsion come?" It comes, in the first instance, from men who have claimed a very large measure of credit for placing upon our statute-book the compulsory principle in the Defence Act. They have, in season and out of season for many years, claimed that as one of the chief triumphs of the Labour party. I say nothing of the fact that that Act was actually passed through this Chamber by another party. I give them all the credit for their support of. the principle, but there is something inconsistent in those who, for years upon the platform, have sought to gain a measure of public approbation and praise because of their support of the compulsory principle, denouncing it now, when there is some need of applying it, as something too evil for words. I am surprised that men who have hitherto appeared on the public platform as the supporters of the compulsory principle in military service should now tell us that they never believed in it. We have had two instances within the last two days. Only last night  Mr. Tudor,  until lately a Minister of the Crown, speaking at a meeting of the Political Labour League Executive, at Richmond, said, if correctly reported in this morning's newspapers, " that no Government had a right to force a man to fight, and, perhaps, to lose his life." What has  Mr. Tudor  been doing all these years? He has been a supporter of the principle, sharing the credit which he, in common with his political colleagues, has claimed because of their efforts to place it upon the statute-book. The question of whether the Government has the right to compel a man to fight is not affected by the particular acre on which he fights. Yet, for years,  Mr. Tudor  has been geting a measure of public approbation and support because of his supposed belief in that principle. He now tells us that he does not believe a Government has the right to do that which he has been supporting the Government in doing for many years past. So, in this Chamber, the other night, we had a similar admission by  Senator Ferricks. Senator Lynch  asked him by interjection, " If the Germans landed here would you compel fit men to fight?" That was bringing the argument right home to the Defence Act.  Senator Ferricks  replied, " No, I would not," and added, " I do not think Australians would require any compulsion in such a case." 
I think I am correctly quoting  Senator Ferricks  in attributing to him the statement that, no matter how big the majority might be in favour of the proposal at the referendum, he denied the right of the majority to bind, the minority in a matter where conscience was affected. But is there any conscience clause in the plank in the Labour party's platform about the initiative and referendum? Does it say, " The initiative and referendum - but no minority having a conscientious objection to the decision of the majority to be bound by it"? There is no conscience clause there, but a simple provision that the rule of the majority must prevail. Does the Queensland Act contain any provision to exempt conscientious objectors from any decision arrived at? If some of these gentlemen would try to get their colleagues to propose such a provision they would be laughed to scorn, even by their own political associates. It is only in this particular matter that this wonderful factory is set to work turning out these finely-spun consciences. Another phrase that is commonly used is " the sacredness of human life." We can all assent to that general proposition. W© can assent to it, not only thoroughly, but sincerely. But what is this objection as applied to the principle of compulsion ? Is not life just as sacred whether a man sheds it, or is asked to risk it, on the shores of Australia, or 3£ miles away, outside the territorial limit? Does life become sacred 3 miles from Australia's shore, but a thing of no account upon Australian soil ? The life of the individual or of the community is equally sacred wherever it may be. And yet these gentlemen who supported the application of the principle of compulsion to home defence were not at any time disturbed by this plea as to the sacredness of human life. They were willing then to risk human life when necessity demanded it. "It is only now that they stand appalled at the prospect of life being shed or risked 3 miles beyond Australia's shores. I should like some of those who talk about the iniquity of compelling men to risk their lives, because of the sacredness of human life, to picture what would happen if, for instance,  Senator Ferricks,  who referred particularly to this matter, were suddenly confronted while walking down the street by a lunatic aiming a revolver at him. If a policeman came along with another revolver, would  Senator Ferricks  say to him, " Do not shoot the man ! Human life is too sacred. Don't fire!" I can imagine him doing that, but no one else in this Chamber can. 
Should conscription become law by any means, in spite of the pronounced opposition of organized Labour, the Government will thus challenge organized revolt and have to take the lives of those who will uphold basic workingclass principles at any cost. 
No Government is under the necessity of taking the life of any one unless, in the words of this statement, there is " organized revolt." And those who organize revolt know perfectly well that you cannot carry a revolution through without loss of life. These people are perfectly willing, then, to risk this sacred human life in defiance of the law. They would risk it in fighting Australians, but they would apply all the names in the dictionary to a demand that they should risk these lives in fighting the enemies of their country. 
 During this debate there has been a plea - notably by  Senator Mullan  - for honest statement in the course of this discussion. I indorse that plea. When we are referring this or any other matter to the people, we, at least, owe it as much to them as to ourselves to see that we endeavour, as far as we can as human beings, to put the simple facts of the case for popular judgment. I am surprised when I hear those who advance this plea immediately showing how little they understand it by asserting that this proposition means something other than is set out in the plain terms of the Bill. We heard yesterday from those who plead for honesty of statement that this Bill means the conscription of industrial labour. That is one of the things we have had pictured here. We were told that men were not wanted for the army, but that there was some iniquitous conspiracy on foot by which, under the powers now sought, the Government, or some one else - the particular individual or machinery was not indicated - would be able to say to a man, " Go. work here," and to another, "Work there," and to pay whatever wages they pleased. That sort of talk is going on throughout the length and breadth of Australia to-day. It 'is simply not true, and those who make the statement know that it is not. Another statement made is that if we approve this proposition we shall fasten militarism on Australia for all time. The simple language used in the question submitted to the people gives to that statement the lie direct. I stand appalled, when I recollect the seriousness and the gravity of the business with which we are confronted, that any man in a responsible position would attempt even to suggest or to convey the idea that this proposition means the permanent riveting of the conscript system upon Australia. 
-I do not, and the honorable senator does not, know what it means. 
I shall present the question as I see it. 
Are you in favour of the Government having, in this grave emergency, the same compulsory power over citizens in regard to requiring their military service, for the term of the war, outside the Commonwealth as it now has in regard to military service within the Commonwealth ? 
Let us analyze that question, although it really does not need analysis. First of all, the reference is to the " same compulsory power over citizens." What is that power under the Defence Act today? Have we had black labour as the result of it? Has there been any effort by the Government or anyone else to conscript labour as the result of it? Has there been any attempt, as the result of it, to create in Australia a military caste? Yet this is to be the same compulsory power as exists under the Defence Act. The question goes on to limit the power, clearly shutting out any possibility of assuming that it can apply to labour for industrial purposes. The power is to be exercised only " in regard to requiring their military service." Nothing could be more specific or definite. Yet, despite this distinct limitation that it is to be applied and relate to " military service," we have people standing up, even in this chamber, and declaring that under it the. Government will be able to order men about for industrial purposes as they think fit. 
It is rather important in this discussion, limited not to this Chamber, that we should ask ' ourselves who it is that is opposing this principle of compulsion. It is well to look into that question. I do not want for one moment to say that the same motive is animating all opponents- 
The position is not put in that way by the Prime  Ministec 

 Senator Ferricks criticised the ideas of  Mr. Hughes  as set out in his speeches, and as shown by his attitude as a conscriptionist. He took the Labour-class viewpoint of the war, saying that he did not believe in it, and for that reason had never asked any man to go and do what he would not do himself. This was received with applause. 
It is logical. I am within the military age, and I would not ask another man to do what I am not prepared to do myself. 
They agreed with me that it would not be consistent for me to address recruiting meetings. 
I do not believe in the war. 
Our boys have to be fed while they are in the trenches. 
 Senator Ready  quoted the statement from  Senator Bakhap's  speech this morning. 
His proposal was conscription. 
I have never heard it. 
Guinea and humiliated the enemy's representatives there. We also assisted New Zealand troops to take possession of Samoa, and it was one of . our own cruisers that destroyed the  Emden,  much to the delight of the people of this country. We cannot now afford to stand aloof, but must go on increasing our effort till victory be attained. 

 Senator Findley and  Senator Mullan  made a very useful contribution to the debate yesterday.  Senator Mullan,  on the one hand, said that the war was going to last so long that we would exhaust the man power of the Empire, and  Senator Findley  said that the end was coming so quickly that conscription would be unnecessary. I do not know where they obtained their information. 
But you are only appealing to some of the people. You are saying nothing about the other section of the community. 
The wealthy people in the community. 
The Democracy of Australia has answered that question with its military system. 
The Australian Democracy has done that. 
Upon the men who have gone to the front. 
If it had not been for Democracy we should not have had our present force of 300,000. 
I took up the same attitude during the election campaign as I have adopted since. 
I said during the election campaign that it was the duty of those who caused the war to do the fighting. 
If the diplomats had to do the fighting, we should have had no war. 
That is the view I expressed on every platform at the beginning of the war. 
That Australia has done its duty. 
I am putting money into the war loan at 4£ per cent., like thousands of other patriots in Australia. 
The few "bob" I could spare I have put into the war loan, like the rest of your wealthy friends. 
It is a pity the moneyed class did not realize that in connexion with the last war loan. 
The Democracy of Australia has fought. 
In regard to political liberties and national institutions, it would be hardly an exaggeration to say that this country is as far removed from all other parts of the world as daylight is from dark. It cannot be said, therefore, that Australia is not worth fighting for. That being so, why should our men not be asked to fight for it? If men are not prepared to fight for this country, it is not because the country is not worth fighting for, but because they are unworthy to fight for it. Those who, in the hour of danger, decline to assist their country have no right to call the country theirs, and that applies, not only to those who are shirking their obvious duty, but also to those who encourage them in doing so. 
The statement of  Senator Millen  that no member of this Parliament spoke against the war at the last election is perfectly true. Every one of us thought then that Great Britain and the rest of the Empire had entered the war intending to do the best they could under the systems under which they were working. Had any one of us stated from the public platform two years ago that ho advocated compulsory military service abroad, he would never again have seen the inside of this chamber, and would never have had an opportunity to speak for or against the present proposal of the Government. We went into the war under the conditions that existed at its outbreak. I deprecate the making of wild statements against the integrity and honour of those who are taking part in this campaign. Some persons have called  Mr, Hughes  names, but I have no intention of doing so, and an attitude like mine should be reciprocated. But  Mr, Hughes  himself, according to the newspapers, is calling all who are opposing him names. I spent the recent long recess in Queensland. When the newspapers which contained long accounts of  Mr. Hughes  in the Old Country arrived, there was perturbation in the minds of many persons belonging to the industrial classes, who wondered whether  Mr. Hughes  would honour the pledges which he had given to this country. The fear was expressed that, influenced by the honours that were being paid to him, he might change his opinions. I told such persons at the meetings that I attended that we had sent  Mr. Hughes  to the Old Country to do certain things, and that if he did them he would accomplish a great work for Australia, but that I did not think that, on his return, he would advocate conscription for military service outside the Commonwealth. I knew that throughout his career he had definitely declared himself to be opposed to compul- sory  service outside Australia, at any time and under any circumstances, though he was in favour of compulsion for home defence. I asked my friends, therefore, not to judge him too hastily, and not to condemn him before his return. I told them that, even if he had changed his views, he could not force conscription on to the people of this country; that the Labour party alone could do that. That is the position to-day. Whatever may be  Mr. Hughes'  personal opinions, they cannot be forced on the people of this continent without the aid of the Labour party. Just before leaving Brisbane I was asked by persons connected with the political and industrial organizations of the State what I thought about conscription, and I repeated what I had said before - that I did not believe that  Mr. Hughes  would advocate conscription for service outside Australia. A great deal has been said in disapproval of those who voted against the first reading of this Bill.  Senator Millen  has said that the Labour party have hitherto regarded the referendum as an instrument which would assist Democracy, and  Senator Ready  said that he cannot understand the action of Labour members in voting against the referendum. It is true that the initiative and referendum are planks of the platform of the Labour party, and I have, on various occasions, signed that platform. I believe that the referendum will, and  Senator Millen  has admitted that it may, in the future be part of the legislative machinery of this country. I have not advocated the initiative and referendum be cause, like many others, I regard it as the panacea for all evils. My reading and experience lead me to think that the referendum will be rather conservative in its action. But I regard it as likely to be the most educative influence that could be created. It will induce people to take interest in political questions that cannot be dealt with at a general election, when the electors cast their votes for a candidate, some almost without regarding his principles, and simply because he is well and favorably known, others for certain views that he advocates, and others, again, for other views. Consequently, all that is gained by a general election is the knowledge that the country as a whole indorses the policy of the party which has been returned to Parliament by a majority. With the initiative and referendum, the people will have the right to demand that Parliament shall deal with certain matters, and will also have the right to demand that, before measures which have been considered by Parliament become law, they shall be referred to the electors for ratification. One of the first things that I learned when I joined the Labour party, some years ago, was that when a proposal hostile to the principles of the party was brought before Parliament, the attempt should be made to kill it as soon as possible. In Queensland., in 1894, when the west was not as well supplied with railways as it is now, an industrial war broke out, and the military was sent to quell disturbances. The Government of the day introduced a Bill empowering them to hold up persons met on the road, and to take them to places to be examined. It was, in fact, the first real coercion Bill ever introduced into an Australian Parliament. Until then the usual practice had been to regard the first-reading stage of a Bill as formal, to debate its principles on the second reading, and to consider its details in Committee. But, in regard to this Bill, the Labour party held a meeting, and determined that it was so dangerous that an attempt must be made to kill it at the moment of its introduction.  In my opinion similar action should have been taken with this Bill, which is an attempt to induce the people of Australia to consent to conscription. In opposing the measure, I am putting into effect the principles on which I was elected, and, had I been able to defeat the first reading, I should have been justified in doing so. The same spirit animated those who voted with me.  Senator Beady  objected to a division on the first reading, because the Labour party had hitherto been united. 
I thought that the honorable senator objected to the referendum because it would cause bad feeling and bickering throughout Australia. If the action that a few of us took last night had succeeded, all that discussion and discord feared by the honorable senator would have been prevented, and the responsibility would have rested upon us. 
The consequence might have been that I would never see the inside of Parliament again; but I would have preferred to kill the Bill, and allow the whole thing to drop. The result might have been another election. 
The Bill would have been thrown out, and that would have been the end of it. 
There  might  have been an election, I admit, and I WOuld prefer that course to voting for the first reading of the Bill. 
Does the honorable senator think that  Mr. Hughes  would- 
Does the honorable senator believe that some one else would usurp the functions of Parliament and bring in conscription without any consideration for the feelings of the people ? If any one would do so, the responsibility for his action would be upon himself.' Would the honorable senator do it, or be behind the step? 
Had such a step been taken, the authors of it accepting full responsibility for it, I would have preferred it to the course that has been adopted. 
What does the honorable senator propose to dp ? 
I am in favour of leaving all these things for the approval of the people; yet no one fought harder against a reference of the financial question to the people some years ago than I did. In fact, the whole of the Labour party opposed the Bill that authorized the referendum. I remember also the occasion on which we raised our salaries. We were immediately snowed under by all sorts of resolutions from local and other bodies, and the burden of those resolutions was that the members of this Parliament had no right to deal with such a matter until it had first been referred to the people. Was there any honorable senator who accepted the suggestion then made by some honorable members of the other House, that the matter should be dealt with by a referendum? Not one. I did not believe in referring the matter to the people, because I realized that had a referendum on the question been taken we would not have been able to do a fair thing for those connected with the Parliament of the Commonwealth. The Queensland Labour party has had the principle of the initiative and referendum on its platform for quite a number oi years. From Cape York to the Tweed River a large section of the people of Queensland has been agitating for a referendum in connexion with early closing, Almost every day during the Premier's absence from the State deputations waited on the Acting Premier, and since the Premier's return there have been huge deputations filling the room at the Treasury Building set apart for the purpose; but what has been the reply to those deputations? It has been, " No. The Government are not going to take a referendum on this particular question in order to please you. We propose to pass legislation that will permit of a referendum being taken, if a section of the community think it wise that any matter should be referred to the people." If the Commonwealth Parliament had an Initiative and Referendum Act on the statute-book, no doubt long ago a section of the people would have exercised their right to initiate action in the direction of compulsory military service abroad, but I would not be a party to allow the Bill before us to-day to go an inch further than I can help. That is the stand I take upon it, and a stand which I propose to take outside in opposing the referendum. One would imagine from the remarks of some people that the Labour party had committed itself to compulsory service all round.  Senator Millen  says that the party claims credit for the compulsory service provisions that are in force in Australia. That is certainly true. We were quite right in placing them on the statutebook. I understand that  Senator Ferricks  has stated his belief in compulsory service for the young manhood of Australia, and I believe in it for various reasons. In fact I supported it ou the platform, and afterwards, when it became the law of the land, I defended it. Its strongest opponents were those who today are conducting the agitation for compulsory service abroad. One thing that animated every member of the Labour party in passing the Act was the provision that no man should be sent out of Australia unless he volunteered to go. That is the stand I take to-day. There is bound to be misrepresentation during the campaign upon the referendum proposal of the Government. There is an instance of it in to-day's  Argus  in a portion of the journal which purports to set out what the compulsory scheme means. - It says that the additional reinforcements required to the 31st July, 1917, will be 100,000 men. The Minister for Defence, speaking in this chamber last week, said - 
We have then to find 32,600 men in September, 16,500 men in October, November, and December respectively, or a total of 82,000 troops to the end of the year. In January, February, and March, we shall have to provide, at the same rate. 49,500, or a total from now to the end of March, 1917, of 131,500. 
And that is three months short of the date mentioned in the  Argus.  As  a  matter of fact, from the figures of the Minister, we shall have to find 197,000 men by the end of July, 1917. Journals put matters pithily into one column where it. can be seen at a glance, but busy men are nob able to wade through column after column, and that is the information that the average man will get by glancing at to-day's  Argus. 
I am taking the figures given by the Minister, who said that we should require 131,500 men by the end of March next in addition to the 103,000 which he estimated was the number then in camp in Australia or in England, or on the way to England. With these misrepresentations the people will ask: "Why all this trouble when only so many men are required ?" It is this kind of misrepresentation that we shall have to combat on the platform, and by means of circulars and leaflets and through the columns of the press controlled by the Labour party in order to put the truth before the people.  
I do not know whether  Mr. Hughes  made the statement. I have simply read the statement given by the Minister in this chamber as it appears in  Hansard. 
I do not know that I read the speech  Mr. Hughes  delivered in Sydney. I have taken the speech delivered in this chamber by the Minister for Defence as to the number of men who will be required by the- end of March, and I have added to  His  figures four mouths at the rate of 16,500 per month, which brings the total to 197,000. Already in Australia we have had an example of the exercise of power which has been intrusted to the authorities. I have always held that no body of men can be found to whom unlimited power can be intrusted. The man is rare who, when he has once started to put into operation a power which has been intrusted to him, does not use it again and again in order to brush aside, or, if necessary, crush, anything obnoxious to him_ which he has not previously anticipated. All through history we have had cases of individuals and bodies of men abusing the power which they have assumed or which has been reposed in them by the community. It may be asked, " What are the Labour people in Australia afraid of ?" One thing that I am afraid of is that we may run the risk of losing the system which the Labour party inaugurated for the purpose of defending Australia. I believe that if compulsory service abroad were forced on the people of Australia, there would be such a reaction that very few men would be returned to this Parliament in favour of the continuance of the present system. It is because I want to maintain that system, which was advocated and carried through by the Labour party, that I take up my present attitude.  Senator Millen  claimed that the compulsory provisions of the Defence Act were brought in by the party which we were supporting at the time, but that party numbered only seven or eight, and the support they received from the Labour party enabled them to carry their legislation into effect in spite of the opposition on some details of those with, whom  Senator Millen  was at that time connected. I am afraid that the idea of compulsion will stink in the nostrils of the electors to such an extent that we shall practically lose our present system of defence, in the building up of which we have done such a great work. 
The system will defend it upon its own shores. Had our system of compulsory service for Australian defence been in existence for a number of years longer there would have been no question of compulsion for outside service. It is association with one another that in many cases induces men to volunteer. Men scattered over large districts have in many cases not seen the necessity of offering their services for what is practically the defence of their country in Europe. 
Nothing of the sort. Young men in our citizen army whose mates have gone sometimes find that their people object to their enlisting because they are under twenty-one.. I have known of boys telling their. people that unless they gave their consent to their joining their mates they would clear out ana enlist somewhere else. 
I am not sure that they have not been. If the figurescould be taken out it would be found. that a larger proportion had come from the towns, small and large, where compulsory training takes place than from widely scattered districts. 
I am surprised. I believe it is the case in my own State, but, of course, I include besides Brisbane large towns like Ipswich, Maryborough, and Warwick. 
I am not speaking of the metropolitan area. The idea of compulsion seems always to get into the minds of people who obtain authority. A few years ago, when Great Britain entered into the Boer War, the Labour party in Queensland, to which I belonged, strongly condemned the action of the Government in proposing to send contingents. We were a very small minority, and were beaten. After a year or two people recognised that that war was not altogether a credit to Great Britain, Australia, or the other Dominions, but had been carried out principally for the sake of people who wanted to exploit the country for certain industrial purposes. I am satisfied that some people in Queensland, who at that time wanted volunteers to go from Australia, if they had had in their hands the power of compulsion, would have used it then just the same as our Government would use it here to-day. Power, when intrusted to a few people, is very likely to be used in such a way that those who intrusted it to them will not be at all satisfied. Consequently, although we have a Labour Government in power, I, as one of their supporters, am not prepared to give them the right to compel people to go outside Australia, even to take part in this war. 
You must admit that the Government possess knowledge which private members do" not, and that private members have knowledge which people outside have not. 
Were they Socialists who made that declaration? 
Enlarged on the objects of the Universal Service League, which he said were - (1) To advocate the adoption, for the period of the present war, of the principle of universal compulsory service at home or abroad, on the battle-field or elsewhere, and to support the Government in providing at the earliest possible moment such organization as is necessary to secure the wise and just application of this principle; (2) to secure the passage of legislation for the above purposes, and to assure the Federal Government that such legislation will command the loyal support of the  people of the Commonwealth; (3) to adopt any other measures calculated to promote the object of the league. Continuing, he said the objects of the league were clear and definite, the one desire being that the Commonwealth Government should take such measures as would make available every male necessary to the successful prosecution of the war, and organize all the resources of material and manhood. He thought it must be admitted that national organization would insure the services of the best men for the post for which they were best fitted. 
It stands quite certain that we shall not serve the Empire wisely if we suffer our wheat fields to go untitled and our factories and workshops to fall into desuetude. But there need be no fear of that, even if we were to enlist 400,000 men in our Australian army. If a great and spirited people will adopt military conscription rather than see a foreign foe prevail against its liberties, such a people will be just as ready to  conscribe  the services of industrial workers who are above the war age, and equally prompt to levy a special monetary tax where no other form of sacrifice is available. An old bachelor who can render no other form of service may at least pay, if he have means to pay, something over and above what a family man pays. 
Later on he writes - 
In Europe women are taking the place of men in all ranks of industry, save those in which brawn and muscle are the chief requisites. In Australia they have done so only in a few of the lighter vocations in offices. They are quite as ready here as in the Old World to do their share in whatever is ready to their hands. Then, again, we have amongst us large numbers of men over the middle age in retired or semi-retired positions. The Government which is about to conscript the young to enlist has just as good a right to conscript all such citizens to help in our industries from which the military conscripts are to be taken. 
That is the sort of thing that the industrial population of Australia is afraid of. It fears the use of this power in such a way, if it be placed in the hands of a body of men who are prepared so to employ it. Here is yet another paragraph from the same article - 
So far from labour being scarce, it is a common complaint that in every application for workmen there are at least three men seeking one job. This is because boys and girls and women have hitherto taken the places of those who have volunteered for the war. There is still a fairly large body of men and women, some of them beyond middle age, who may be utilized as home conscripts, if necessary, to help domestic industry, on the farm and in the factory, during the period of the war. This is quite within the province of the Government should the need arise. 
This is a journal which, I suppose, has more influence, at any rate in Victoria, amongst the industrial classes than any other. Can we wonder at the enormous change that has taken place in Victoria on this question during the last two or three weeks? Those who are- in industrial organizations realize that while they retain to a great extent the power in their own hands, or exercise it through Parliament, they are more safe, and considerably better off than they otherwise would be. I am not going to debate the question of conscription now,  becau  e I propose to do that on the public platform ; and I shall do all I can to defeat the adoption of the policy by this -  cumtry 
Without going into the question of conscription, I wish to refer . very briefly to a few aspects of the proposed referendum. After the very able speeches we have heard, and the figures quoted by those opposed to the Government's proposals - speeches and figures that show unmistakably that the supply of single men cannot possibly last more than three or four months, when the married men must be called upon - and after  Senator Millen  's candid and honest admission that the proposals mean the inclusion of all males in the Commonwealth between the ages of eighteen and sixty, I think the matter has been sufficiently threshed out. One phase of the question, however, has not yet been referred to during this debate though it is one I brought under the notice of the Minister for Defence the other day. I asked whether the honorable gentleman was aware that the French soldiers who were at Gallipoli, and those who are now at Salonika, were volunteers or ' conscripts. My object was to show that Australia, through the Prime Minister's proposals, is going further than France has ever gone, notwithstanding the gallant work that the French nation has done. In reply to that question,  the Minister for Defence said that there was no information on the subject; and the Prime Minister on being questioned said he did not know. 
None in the world; but Alsace is not 12,000 miles oversea from France. So far as my information goes, the French soldiers who went to Gallipoli, and those who are now at Salonika, are volunteers; and I do not think the Minister for Defence was quite candid when he said there was no information on the subject. By virtue of his position, the Minister for Defence must know that conscription in France' applies only within the French domain and to the French colonies, unless, of course, during battle the issue is carried over the border. For service anywhere else abroad the French soldiers are volunteers. If the Minister for Defence is aware of that he should have been honest and candid enough to state the facts. 
I am very pleased to accept the honorable gentleman's assurance; but, according to my reading and knowledge, the position is as I have described. The proposal is to conscript Australians for service 12,000 miles oversea; and if the Prime Minister, with all the knowledge he is supposed to have obtained at the front, does not know the conditions of French military service, I am inclined to believe that he has not been very candidly informed by the Army War Council. There is another phase which has a direct and complete bearing on the Bill, and the question embodied in clause 5. It might have been expected that in the drafting of the Bill, a direct question would have been drawn  up.  If I were to put a question to one of the Ministers, and I endeavoured, in putting it, to canvass support for the proposition in that question, I take it,  Mr. President,  that you would r-le me out of order, and ask me to use plain and direct language. I do not think  this will have very great bearing on the issue, but it would appear that the Prime Minister could not resist the temptation, in framing the question, to include a bit of advocacy. Another question arises in regard to the Fifth Division. The Minister for Defence has not given us any information, though he ought to be in possession of it, as to whether the 20,000 men, who are part of the 32,000 men to be raised this month',  could  I not have been obtained under the voluntary system during the next four months, thus making the measure now before us unnecessary. 
The Minister was able to say, in pretty definite terms, that it was extremely improbable that the Fifth Division could reach the firing line before the beginning of the next continental summer. 
Some honorable senators, who are opposing the Bill, have said that, if the voluntary system had been given a fair trial it would not have broken down; but I disagree with them in this, because I hold that the voluntary system has not broken down.  Further,  I think that, in view of the fact that winter is approaching on the other side of the world, we might have had more and stronger confirmation from the Minister for Defence that all these reinforcements will be required during the ensuing six months. It is reasonable to assume that the casualty lists will not be so heavy during the impending winter as they have been in the months which have elapsed since our troops began to take part in the grand offensive. If we may judge from the war news in the press from day to day our troops on the Continent have not been taking part in such formidable actions as previously, and over the part of the line held by them there is a comparative lull. Of course, I suppose that hostilities  are  intermittently carried on day and night ; but seeing that we have had no very lengthy references to our troops in the press during the past few months, we may take it that there has been a lull, and, consequently, that the need of reinforcements will not be so great as previously. 
It is true that the casualty lists are very heavy, but it will be seen that they are not the result of recent engagements, otherwise we should have been apprised of that fact through the newspapers. 
The dates of the fatal casualties are nearly all in July, and this for the reason given leads me to the conclusion that the need for reinforcements may not be so heavy during the ensuing winter. There is another matter on which some stress has been laid during this debate. I refer to the democratic aspect of this referendum. Honorable senators who support the referendum, although they may oppose the principle of conscription, have asserted that a referendum on a question like this is democratic. I have already said that in my opinion - which is now, I think, pretty well known throughout Australia, owing to the publicity given to the procedings of the Senate - war and Democracy cannot run together. I do not agree with the views expressed by  Senator Millen  to-day. 
I am only making passing reference to some remarks by  Senator Millen.  As I said, Democracy and war cannot run together. The very foundation of war is opposed to Democracy; and when it does come, and is forced upon us, the respective peoples concerned would be in a very sad way but for Democracy.  Senator Millen  asks whose duty it is to defend the interests of the nation. He asks whether it is not the duty of the Democracy. I say that, so far as Australia is concerned, the Democracy has done it, and- done it exceedingly well. Those who believed it to be their duty voluntarily to go and fight Australia's battles were bound to do that duty, and I agree that they have done it exceedingly well. But to refer, as  Senator Millen  did this afternoon, to all who have not gone to the front as " shirkers " is not fair. It must be patent to any member of the Senate that there must be thousands of Australians of military age who have good reasons for not going to the front. 
Those who have gone have gone from a sense of duty, and I say to them " Good luck and a speedy and safe return." 
I do not think it is a right of the people to compel men to go to the war. 
It is for every man to sum up his own duty. 
I will not admit that it is a right of the community to decide in a matter of life and death - to compel men to go to war. 
I realize the seriousness of the situation. No one desires more earnestly than I do the conclusion of the war. Coming back to the question of the referendum, and the statement of those who support the Bill, whilst opposing the principle of conscription, I say that the vital objection to the application of the word " democratic " to a referendum on such a question is, that, while the vote will be shared in by every elector of the Commonwealth, all will not share the consequences of the decision. If we take a referendum on the question of the closing of hotels, all the electors will share in the right to express an opinion on the proposal, and also in the effects of the decision, but the closing of hotels is not a matter of life and death. Here is another important difference between a referendum on the question of conscription and a referendum, upon such a question as the closing of hotels. In each case all the electors have a say in the decision ; but whilst in the case of a referendum on the closing of hotels all the electors are affected by the decision arrived at - which, in my opinion, is democratic - in the case of the referendum we are now considering, whilst every elector will have the opportunity - I will not call it a right in this case - to express an opinion on the question of conscription, if the principle be carried, every elector will not share in the consequences of the decision. The consequences will apply only to those male persons in the community who are physically fit and are between the ages of twenty-one and forty-five years. I say that is anti-democratic. It is opposed to the democratic principle to say that the whole of the electors shall have a right to decide an issue which must affect only a comparatively small section of the community. 
It is impossible to decide it upon any democratic principle, because it is impossible to provide that every elector sharing the right to vote must share in the consequences of the decision. 
Then my honorable friend will have an opportunity later of refuting them. 
Very well. I shall be glad if other, members of the Senate will attempt to show how the proposed referendum can be called democratic. Members of the Labour party who are prepared to support it place themselves in a very invidious position. Not so many months ago the party, following certain action taken by the Prime Minister, agreed to the dropping of the referenda for the amendment of the Constitution. Having done that, to support the referendum now proposed will be inconsistent. 
It was postponed because the taking of a referendum during the currency of the war would divide the people into two hostile sections, and bring about political unrest at a time when there should be a truce between political parties. For weeks the daily press howled in support of that contention, and I think that, consciously or unconsciously, members of the Labour party were influenced by that agitation. 
The statement that the subject of the war would have led to division amongst the people on the referendum for constitutional amendments will not stand examination for a moment. During the currency of the war Labour members agreed to drop the constitutional referendum, but many of them are now supporting a referendum which will not only divide the people into two sections, but into two very hostile sections. Unless full liberty is given to both sides - and to the anti-conscription side to a greater extent than it has been given in the past - the  differing sections of the community will be more hostile in their division than they could possibly have been in a referendum upon a constitutional issue. "We are told by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence that the powers conferred on the Government by the decision of the referendum will not be used industrially. I am not going into that question, which has been very ably dealt with by Senators Mullan and Turley. I am endeavouring to deal only with aspects of the matter which have so far been untouched. I want to refer to the matter of trusting the Government not to go beyond the assurances of the Prime Minister. The humblest student of political life is aware that one Government cannot bind another. One Executive cannot lay down hard-and-fast rules to be followed by a succeeding Government. Rut, putting that aside, and assuming, for the sake of argument, that we could guarantee that the Labour party will be always in power in the Commonwealth, we would still have no guarantee that conscription will not be applied industrially. We know that the present Government have already applied conscription to industrial workers in Australia without the carrying of the proposed referendum at all. They have done it under the powers they already possess under the Defence Act. That being so, is it not reasonable to fear that the present or any succeeding Government, under the pretext of guarding the nation, might take action similar to that which was taken by the Navy Department recently in conscripting men for service on the transports? The Navy Department conscripted men for service abroad under the provisions of the Defence Act. I am not prepared to trust any Government or any military authority with these powers. 
I am talking of industrial matters now. The Navy Department wrongfully conscripted seamen under conditions which were worse than they were getting from the combined shipping companies. Those men are going to the ' front, and run, perhaps, greater dangers than do men in the actual firing line. 
Quite so ; but I am pointing out the dangers which may arise under compulsion. We are asked to trust  Mr. Hughes. 
We are asked to accept his assurance that these powers will not be used for industrial purposes. When he makes these appeals for the trust of the people, he must surely be speaking with his tongue in his cheek, in view of the fact that a Department of his Government has already carried into effect that which he says will never come about. When the Prime Minister is making these very eloquent appeals in halls crowded with sympathetic audiences, he also speaks of war profits, and says that it must be understood that there shall be no war profits during the currency of the war. 

 Sitting, suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

Does anybody take a statement like that seriously from our Prime Minister? I do not, seeing the way that prices of commodities have jumped up during the last two years. The Leader of the Opposition this afternoon quoted an extract from the Brisbane  Daily Standard  of 7th September, containing a report of some remarks which I made at the meeting of the Trades Hall Council in  Sydney  on the question of my attitude towards recruiting meetings. The report of that speech, so far as it went, fairly set out my remarks, but, as it was a telegraphic report, it did not give my views fully. I have not been able to get a copy of the paper referred to, but  Senator Millen  allowed me to look at the statement, and I had a hurried glance through it. My attitude on the question of addressing recruiting meetings is well known to my friends throughout Queensland. I am within the military age, being just over forty years old. I do not intend to enlist, and I am not going on the public platform to urge others to do what I am not prepared to do myself. This was my attitude as stated by me at the meeting of the Trades Hall Council referred to, and the applause at that meeting, which  Senator Millen  remarked upon, referred to my attitude, and, .perhaps, not to the sentiment I expressed. 
That I was applauded for my sentiments. 
The inference was that my remarks would have an influence in that direction. I submit that my attitude is a logical one. Anyhow, that is how it appears to me, and I am going to stand by it. I have not mentioned before that during the adjournment of Parliament I was for ten weeks in Queensland, and was in towns from Brisbane to Ayr, in the far north, while recruiting meetings were being held, but I was not asked to address one of those meetings. Other Labour members of Queensland were served in the same way, and in the metropolitan area I know they have been absolutely snubbed by the recruiting committees. If I had been asked, I should have answered in the terms of my statement to-night. It is a fact that the recruiting committees did not know what I would say; they never asked me to address a meeting during the whole of my ten weeks' sojourn in Queensland. But after the report appeared in the  Daily Standard  on 7th September, I returned to Sydney, and received a telegram, which had been sent to Parliament House in the first instance, inviting me to address a meeting in Brisbane. The telegram intimated that they were holding a monster recruiting rally in the Exhibition Hall in Brisbane on Wednesday night, and if I could not attend would I send a message. On my return to Melbourne I inquired of my colleagues if they had received a similar invitation, and I found that the only other Queensland member in the Federal Parliament who had received an invitation was  Mr. Finlayson.  We had addressed an anticonscription meeting together in Brisbane. I can give another instance of the designing, diabolical line of action taken by these local committees so far as the Queensland Labour members are concorned. 
It is part of their scheme to aim at the disruption of this party. It commenced about twelve months ago, and it. Eas been a well-defined plan of attack engineered by  Mr. Watt  and  Sir William  Irvine, in my opinion. But I blame the Government and the Defence Department for, unwittingly perhaps, but nevertheless truly, aiding them in their conspiracy.  Mr. Finlayson  and I addressed an anticonscription meeting in Brisbane on the 3rd August, and' the following day was the second anniversary of the outbreak of the war. A big public meeting was held in the Central Square, Brisbane, at noon that day, and when I went down to the Federal members' room in the morning I received an invitation from the Town  Clerk  to attend and take a seat on the platform. That was only an hour before the time fixed for the meeting, and the circular which invited me was dated 25th July, so evidently they did nob think of sending it between 25th July and 11 o'clock on 4th August. I submit that these are the people who are responsible for the falling off in recruiting and the necessity for the Bill now before the Senate. In the Government's proposals as they have been outlined by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence, provision is made for  Courts of appeal for the purpose of adjudicating on claims of exemption. 
Yes , that is so. The first -Court , will, I understand, be presided over by a magistrate, and if the applicant for exemption is turned down there he may appeal to a Court presided over by a Judge of the Supreme Court. If unsuccessful there, he may then go to the High Court. I ask honorable senators what opportunity will a working man or his son have of going through all that procedure ? 
No, but I would provide easy access to the various Courts, whether the applicant had means or not. 
I would not by any means leave this matter in the hands of the military authorities. I would give the poor man exactly the same facilities as the rich. 
Do I understand from the Minister for Defence that access to these Courts will not involve expense to the applicant? 
Do I understand  also  th'at'  counsel  will not be allowed to a man who may be able to engage legal assistance ? 
Then it would be a fatal objection if counsel could be employed. 
But I am speaking about the claimants. Will they be permitted to have counsel? 
-But will an applicant have a right to employ counsel ? 
If we leave that to the man with money, I think he will soon show us. This principle is totally opposed to our democratic ideas. I would not mind the procedure so long as anybody could get before the Court without expenditure. 
But the point is, if I were an applicant I might not have the ability to do justice to my claim, and, therefore^ would stand a chance of having it turned down, whereas a rich man, employing counsel, might be able to have his case stated in such a way as to be successful. I am entirely opposed to any discrimination of this kind under any scheme of militarism. This was forcibly impressed upon me by some remarks made by the Prime Minister in response to the toast of his health at the dinner given to him by the Government on his return from England, and at which honorable senators were present. During the course of his speech,  Mr. Hughes  paid a glowing and well-deserved tribute to the late  Mr. W.  J. Johnson, formerly the member for Robertson in another place. He spoke of  Mr. Johnson's  sterling qualities, and of the valuable work he was doing at the front in- France, where  Mr. Hughes  met him. The Prime Minister's remarks were highly interesting, and to me were full of meaning, for he said that after chatting with  Mr. Johnson  he approached the Commanding Officer, and said,  "Mr. Johnson  is an erstwhile colleague of mine. He is a good farrier." I will not say any more, because I am not absolutely certain if  Mr. Hughes  went any further in his remarks in reference to the incident. 
Yes, I think that is a correct statement of the remarks made by the Prime Minister, who told us that when the position was put before  Mr. Johnson,  to his credit he declined the offer to go back to his occupation as a farrier, but preferred to remain in the trenches. Now, in regard to a question of exemptions, or the selection and allotment of men. What would be the position of an influential person who might know some one of weight and backing ? I submit such discriminations are very likely to occur, and that is one reason why I will not admit that this system can be democratic. 
Will the Courts make the selection of men who may have to go into certain industries? 
I suppose. that would be on the recommendation of the military advisers. 
In the case of a man who does not claim any exemption, who will discriminate as to whether he would be more serviceable in the industry than at the front? 
I am glad to hear that. The speeches made in and out of Parliament in support of the Government proposals seem to revolve round the belief that the manhood of Australia has the destinies of the war in its hands ; that it remains with Australia to win or lose the war. I wish I could believe that it depended on the handful of men the Commonwealth can send to the front to decide this great world-wide war. But if every man in Australia, married or single, were available for allotment to the fighting front to-morrow, they would constitute only a drop in the bucket. I do not believe that the Allies are, or ever have been, short of men, although they have been short of equipment and means of transport. Another very pertinent question relates to the production of wealth in Australia. Without traversing any of the ground previously covered, I would remind the Senate that about twelve months ago there was a concerted agitation in the press that the Government should organize the manufacture of shell cases in Australia. For months that agitation was continued, and, whilst I have said harsh things about the Minister for Defence, and, perhaps, thought harsher things than I said, I must admit that I had intense sympathy with him in the attacks to which he was then subjected. We knew that the Defence Department could not proceed with the manufacture of shell cases, because it had not the formula. We know that the Department had been cabling to the Imperial authorities for months to get the required particulars, and some of us believe that the authorities could not supply that formula, for the very good reason that they had not got it; it was in the hands of the private shell manufacturers. When Australia did try its hand at shell making, and the Imperial authorities realized that the transport of our comparatively small production over a distance of 12,000 miles was, at the least, not an expeditious proceeding, they cabled to the Minister for Defencethat no more shells were required from Australia. To me it appeared that by that message the Home Government gave Australia to understand that the best service we could render to Great Britain was to go ahead in the production of those vital necessities which the Commonwealth is so capable of producing. I honestly believe that to be the position to-day. 
-Yes. We remember that at the time of the Dreadnought craze, when a wave of insanity swept over the Commonwealth, the Imperial authorities sent a similar message, which meant, in effect, that the best service Australia could render to the Motherland was to learn to defend itself. That was an indorsement of the Fisher policy for the creation of an Australian Navy, and if any confirmation of the wisdom of that hint from England were wanted - and I do not think any confirmation was required - it has been supplied by the achievement of our Navy during this war. Holding the belief, therefore, that the Imperial authorities do not require men from Australia, it devolves upon me to express my belief as to why the Government are introducing this proposal. I am of opinion that volunteers will suffice to provide all the men the Imperial Government requires from Australia. The main reason  why Great Britain desires the establishment of conscription in Australia is not for the sake of getting more men, but for the sake of the moral effect of the establishment of that system in the Commonwealth under the  regime  of a Labour Government. Once that is done, the system of conscription in Great Britain can be tightened up, and whatever latitude is now allowed industrially will cease. I believe that  Mr. Hughes  was overcome by influences in Great Britain with that object in view. 
Like every  other  man he is amenable to influence, and most honorable senators will, admit that when he went to England he departed from the recognised tenets of Australian  Labourism.  Once conscription is established in Australia by a Labour Government, is it not apparent what a fine lever the Imperial Government will have with which to give the screw of conscription an extra turn, and if there be any objection to the tightening up of the system, they will reply that Australia, under a Labour Government, has gone further? Another aspect of this question is the danger of precedent. It has been said that the operation of this measure will be for the duration of this war only. On this point I am in agreement with  Senator Findley.  Taking the Government at their word, I fear that once conscription is introduced it will remain. But disagreeing, for the sake of argument, from the sentiments expressed by  Senator Findley,  I ask, if another Government came into office and another war broke out, who could defend the nonimposition of compulsion on a second occasion? If a Liberal or Conservative Government proposed conscription, and the Democracy of Australia objected; the Government could retort, ' ' Your own representatives established a precedent in 
Australia. If it was good enough for Australia under them, it is good enough for Australia under us." 
Governments follow precedents when it suits .them, as the actions of the present Government have shown. I stated in connexion with the monstrous terms offered in connexion with the war loan that if those proposals had been advanced by a Fusion Government every Labour member in both Houses, and every Labour paper in Australia, would have been up in arms against them. Some reference has been made in the course of the debate to those of us who have dared to criticise  Mr. Hughes.  It will be within the recollection of honorable senators that when  Mr. Hughes  contemplated his visit to England I was one of those who opposed what I have described as " his self-invited visit." On a motion for the adjournment of the Senate towards the end of last year, I raised a protest against adjourning Parliament for so many months while the nation was at war. At the first subsequent opportunity after Parliament re-assembled. I did criticise  Mr. Hughes'  utterances in Great Britain. I said then, and I say now, that in his speeches in England he did not represent Australian Labourism  And honorable senators who were present on that occasion will remember the wrathful indignation with which the Minister for Defence received my comment. In view of the reception that has been given to  Mr. Hughes  and his proposals by the recognised Labour authorities of Australia since his return, it will be agreed that my statement was not very wide of the mark. In conclusion, let me say that my position on this question is clear. I have spoken on the subject several times, and I am satisfied that the people of Queensland know my attitude. What makes me more satisfied on that point is the number of letters I have received from all over Queensland, many of them in commendation, and also many in condemnation, of my attitude. The position I adopted in May is my position to-night. I am against conscription. I will not support it by voice or vote. I said that much last year long before the question was raised. In September, 1915, I expressed those views in the Sydney  Worker  at the request of its Melbourne representative. Here let me allude to a remark by  Senator Millen  that had any of us dared to speak on the election platform in opposition to Australia's participation in the war we would not have been returned to Parliament. I will tell the Senate what I told the electors of Queensland from nearly all the platforms I occupied in Queensland during the last Senate election. I used to open my speeches with a statement to this effect, ' ' We all deplore the war ; we would all like to see it finished. The people who do the fighting are not responsible for the war : it was arranged by coteries and cliques under the disguise of the diplomatic service. If I had my way I would put those who caused the war in the front firing line, and I would see the workers standing back on the hills, waving flags, and singing "Rule Britannia!" That is my attitude to-day. 
That would be so if it were left to the patriotism of those who sing "Rule Britannia!" to do the fighting. It ishigh time that the Democracy of Australia attempted to do something with those who wave the flags, sing " Rule Britannia !" and light the fires of war in the name of patriotism. 
The representatives of Democracy in the present Government had an opportunity of doing that during the last two years, in connexion with their financial policy and the regulation of food prices, which have been so much inflated? 
The present Government, as representing Democracy, have been in power for the last two years, but the only punishments they have enforced have been punishments against Democrats. They have allowed the opponents of Democracy - those who " sool " others on to fight - not only liberty to express opinion, but absolute licence. That is the genesis of this Bill. In the guise of recruiting agents, these persons were allowed to go throughout the length and breadth of Australia, condemning voluntarism and advocating conscription. These representatives of Democracy have failed in their duty, and are about to reap the whirl-wind which, by their negligence, they have sown. Some time ago I said that it would not be long before we should see  Mr. Hughes  and  Mr. Cook  falling on each other's neck, and  Senator Pearce  and  Senator Millen  in a similar position. 
I speak figuratively, of course. My opinion is that we are not far removed from that spectacle now. I shall oppose the Bill, and, if it passes, I shall, in company with my colleagues, travel over Queensland as extensively as I can, opposing conscription, and advising the electors to vote " No " on the referendum question. If the referendum be answered in the affirmative, and the people decide on conscription, I shall come here, if I am alive and still a representative of the people, and record my vote against the introduction of compulsion into Australia, because I do not think that the people have the right to decide this matter. 

 Senator Lt.-Colonel Sir ALBERT GOULD (New South Wales) [8.33].-  Senator Ferricks  has professed to speak in the name of Democracy, but his concluding remarks show how far he is from the sentiments of an honorable Democrat. Does he not know what Democracy means ; that it is the government of the people by the people? Does he not recognise that the people have the right to express their opinions on any great question, and to have those opinions put into effect? Parliament is not an institution created for the benefit of the few individuals who happen to be its members. Those who sit in Parliament are returned as representing the views of a majority of the electors. The people cannot attend Parliament in person, and, therefore, choose members to represent them in the councils of the nation. Thus the whole community expresses its voice on the great questions of the day. I have never been a supporter of the principle of the referendum, but I cannot understand how a member of the Labour party, in whose platform the referendum is a plank, and who believes that it expresses a great democratic principle, can oppose the submission of a question like conscription to the electors. The Government say now, "We do not ask you to determine this question ; we merely ask you to refer it to our masters - the people - to determine." But  Senator Ferricks  replies, "No. I shall not allow the Democracy to have a voice regarding conscription. I would sooner choke their opinions in their throats than permit them to express their views regarding this proposal." 
The life of the individual does not belong to the community. 
The honorable senator would conscript the money at 4$ per cent. 
There is no proposal to withdraw from the war. 
The spirit of Australia still lives, although it has been deadened by this talk of conscription, and by the action of those behind the honorable senator in inflating the price of foodstuffs, making it harder for those whom our soldiers have left behind to live. 
.- The issue raised by the Bill is of grave and serious importance, and, for that reason, I wish to state my position as clearly, briefly, and concisely as possible. I am pleased at the manner in which the debate has proceeded so far. I would not have been surprised had a great deal of acrimony been displayed during the debate. Instead of this, we find that honorable members on either side have expressed themselves sufficiently forcibly without committing themselves to anything that might be questioned. At the outset I make the declaration that I am a pronounced anti-conscriptionist. I have come to that decision after giving the matter months of sincere and conscientious consideration. I believe that compulsory military service abroad is a bad principle, which should not be fastened on a free country like Australia. The issue raised by the Bill is twofold. On the one hand, we are engaged in the greatest and most serious war that the world has ever seen. On the other hand, Australia is threatened with having fastened on it the mo3t iniquitous, oppressive, hateful, and repulsive thing that I can think of. In Great Britain itself, and throughout the British Dominions, we have for years boasted of our voluntarism. It is a common saying that one volunteer is worth ten pressed men. That is, doubtless, an exaggeration, but it expresses the view of the British people that the volunteer is much more useful in any service than the man who is pressed into it. A man pressed into any activity wholly against his will will not succeed like one who goes into it voluntarily. 
If you cannot get volunteers, are you going to stop? 
God forbid that it should lead to bloodshed. But I do not know that it may not. I think it is hardly worth while setting the people of Australia at each other'3 throats and creating strife and turmoil, fierce and bitter, throughout the country, for the sake of getting 100,000 men by conscription by the end of next July. Instead of uniting the country at a time like the present, conscription, I believe, is going to hopelessly divide us. Then, again, the man who is forced against his will into any activity is not nearly so useful as the man who voluntarily enters upon it. That is my experience in the workshop. I found that where a boy came into a trade against his own will he  whs  absolutely of no use. I also know of young men who have been called upon against their will to follow a profession because of the desire of their fathers that they should become doctors or lawyers, and they have failed absolutely. The volunteer must be far more useful than the man who is forced into any activity. I may not find an honorable senator to agree with me in my further objection to conscription, which is that I look upon it as a violation of the Divine law. For that reason, and the others I have mentioned, I am opposed to conscription. 
There are twenty more ships engaged now than there were a month ago. 
There is no chance of decreased facilities. 
If the British Government ask for men they will find the means of carrying them. 
They have taken all the men we had to give them. 
I have not much hope that once compulsion is introduced we shall get free of it after the war. There are many of the advocates of conscription who press it for purely military reasons, but there are others - some of the chief of them have frankly admitted as much to me - who desire it as the only weapon against the growing power of the trade unions. And it is in that direction that conscription must inevitably tend. 
Lt.Colonel Maxwell, referring to England, says ; 
The abuse of personal freedom has reached its climax in this country. Trade unionism - that shelter for slinking shirkers - is imperilling our existence, and by its action a rot of our national soul has set in. One remedy, and one alone, can eradicate this state of rot- martial law can cure it. With the knowledge that refusal to assist in the nation's defence means death to the individual so refusing, the shirkers would soon be brought to their senses, and fall in wherever required . If all who incited to rebellion were shot at once by drumhead court martial, it would have a steadying effect. 

 John. Bull j a weekly paper, makes this statement - 
The miners who refuse to work must be conscripted - put under military control aud made to work at soldiers' pay. That is the way they do things in Germany, and that is the way we must do them here. 
I take another quotation from a speech made by  Mr. Cuthbertson,  at the South Melbourne Council. He said - 
Everywhere the want of conscription was marked, particularly in industrial circles, where employees had wrung concessions from employers, which, under other conditions, would never bo granted. 
Here is another quotation, from  Colonel Sir Augustus  FitzGeorge  - 
Compulsory service was necessary at this time when the people were getting out of hand. 
The following statement is from a British capitalistic paper, the  Engineer - 
The introduction of female labour might be used so as to lead to a lowering of the rates of payments for services. The fact of the matter is not that women are paid too little, but that men are paid too much for work which can bo done without previous training, lt is only the trade unions which, after the war, will stand in the way of our realizing the anticipation that we might be able to reduce our workshop costs by the employment of women. Much  depends  on the attitude of the women themselves. If they can be brought to see the economic advantages to the country, to recognise the facts that we have put forward, and agree to accept a lower scale of wages than skilled men, they may, by their preponderance of numbers, be in a position to defy the unions. 
But I would like also to read a few words from  Dr. Clifford,  who is regarded as one of the greatest divines and preachers in Great Britain. He says - 
Admit conscription, and a Kaiser will not be  far  behind. Surrender your free military service, and you are on a downward road. Your free Parliament will follow. Your free press will be in danger; indeed, it is in great danger now; and if I read aright my experience in Germany twenty years ago, your free speech will follow. Hold with Huxley that it is better for a man to do wrong in freedom than to do right in chains. 
About the conscription of wealth, the editor of the  Economist  has the following comment - 
It is morally right that the anguish of the soldiers at the front should be associated with some privation at home, and that no nation, least df all a Democracy, should be allowed to enjoy an illusory prosperity during war. 
I think  Senator Millen  quoted  Mr. Blatchford  this afternoon, and I would like to do the same, for I want to show that  Mr. Blatchford  said more than was quoted by the honorable senator. Here is something that  Mr. Blatchford  said since he made the statement referred to by  Senator Millen  - 
There are still tens of thousands of adult women, many of them legally forbidden to leave employment-- 
He is referring to conscription in England - who are being paid less than fi a week, which, as we all know, is equal to 12s., or, at most, 14s., ante-war purchasing value. Now, the Government appeals very strongly to the people's patriotism that we may be saved from Prussian oppression. But what sort of patriotism does the Government itself show in this heartless exploitation of helpless women who have no trade union to protect them, and lack even votes, to make oppression better? The  Clarion  has braved loss of friends and bitter calumny in its efforts to rally and unite the disaffected elements of the nation in resistance to the great national peril; but these instances of Government callousness or imbecility constantly mock our efforts and turn them to weapons of  offence  against us. The scandalous licence still accorded to the shipping buccaneers, to the ravenous  devourers  of the people's food, and all the scurvy gang of bloodsuckers who are battening their vile carcasses on the nation's need, is bad enough to bear. But when the State itself takes a hand in robbing the poor, we have no answer left to fling at the factious, peevish, and perverse renegades spitefully buzzing above our heads, but to bid them join forces with the Government, go over to the enemy together as common traitors to their kith and kin, and be damned. 
I think I have said about enough; but I want to mention that it is assumed by many that those who have enlisted, or whose brothers or sons have enlisted, are favorable to conscription. . Not many days ago a friend of mine, a man I knew in my own State, but who is now living in Melbourne, came to me within the precincts of this Parliament, and said - " I have three sons at the front. I have always voted for the Labour party, but, by God, I shall never vote for the party again if they bring in conscription." 
When the Government announced their intention of submitting this question to a referendum, the Leader of the Opposition expressed some disappointment, which was re-echoed the following morning in the daily press of the Commonwealth from one end of its boundaries to the other. At the time I did not believe this disappointment was genuine, and we had only to wait a day or two to find that the whole of the press of Australia had swung round in support of the Government. That fact of itself ought to be more than sufficient to compel all Labourites to consider seriously where they stand. I am not referring, of course, to the Labour press, because that section of the press has consistently opposed conscription at every point, and at all stages. 
It has been the invariable experience of Labour, ever since it came into political existence in the Commonwealth, to find the powerful daily press consistently opposed to every object it had in view, and if one looks backward's for twenty-five years it is impossible to find amongst the planks on the Labour platform a single one that was supported by the daily press. I do not expect that the anticonscriptionists will have a fair field in the coming fight. We have only to look at the reports already published in the press to know that they will continue their past mode of campaign until October next. 
I have not, but' I may get there yet. 
I understand that the ordinary citizen could not get admission to the Town Hall, and that there were foot and mounted police about the building to see that law and order were faithfully maintained. To-day is published the speech by the Prime Minister, and that, no doubt, has been circulated throughout the Commonwealth. I expect nothing else from the daily press. There is no doubt that the views of the anti-conscriptionists have been most unfairly suppressed by both the daily press and the censors, acting on instructions from the Commonwealth Government. I am glad to note, however, that the censorship, apparently, has been relaxed to a considerable extent, and, possibly, when it is realized that Labour will win this fight, at least a few of the powerful morning papers will cross over to the right side before the day of reckoning comes. That already appears to be the case with one paper which has a great number of readers. I should like to refer to what I consider a most unfair action on the part of the  Sydney Morning Herald.  I may be excused for quoting a New South Wales paper occasionally, for it is positively nauseating to hear the  Age  and  Argus  quoted in this chamber on every occasion. This is a short extract from a letter I received in regard to the censorship to which the anti-conscriptionists have been subjected - 
Anyhow, to fully discuss the referendum the people would need to have the full details of the situation placed before them, .which, of course, lias never been done, and will not be done. To show the awful misrepresentation which is going on with regard to this question, I would direct you to the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 20th September. In the summary of this issue a statement is made that at the annual conference of the Local Government Association a resolution in favour of conscription was carried. 
I had a good look at the delegates, and, with a few exceptions, they appeared to be fit in every respect to go to the front. The letter continued - 
The  Herald  has also a leader, taking the above statement as its text. In that leader they state - "In our midst this week the Local Government Association of Kew South Wales is holding its annual meeting, and at the opening of its thirty-fifth conference at the Southern Cross Hall yesterday morning, the delegates signalized the occasion by passing a resolution in favour of conscription without a single dissentient." 
Just imagine the impertinence of these gentlemen, after passing that motion, agreeing to the following resolution : - 
That this conference expresses its disapproval of the proposal to extend the parliamentary franchise to shire and municipal elections. 
Those men want conscription, of course, but they are not prepared to give the young men of the country any rights whatever in local government. The views of men of that character, who will pass a resolution in favour of conscription, ought to carry no weight; but we can read in the  Sydney Morning Herald  day after day resolutions of this kind by men who, by their subsequent actions, show themselves to be diametrically opposed to the best interests of Labour. There is another source of opposition which ought not to be overlooked. The whole of the Liberal politicians, with few exceptions, are notonly supporting the proposal of the Commonwealth Government to refer this issue by referendum to the people; but also urging the people to register an affirmative vote. Along with them is a number of men who have taken a prominent part in the Labour movement for many years, and, although I do not deny to them the right to express their own opinions, I think they are greatly mistaken in the company in which they are found to-day. 
I am sorry that prominent Labour men should, practically, ally themselves with those who have been our natural enemies for so many years. 
It is introduced by a Labour Government, but, strange to say, conscription has been consistently supported in Parliament and throughout the Commonwealth by those who always have been recognised as the direct opponents of Labour. 
Personally, I am, and always have been, hostile to conscription, and between now and the date of the referendum I shall do all that is within my power to secure its defeat on the 28th October. It is a striking fact that the Liberals, apparently buoyed up by reports in the press, are confident of victory at the polls, whilst Labourites, on the _ other hand, are even more confident of victory. In Queensland, so far as the Labour organizations have given expression to their views, the whole of the workers are determined to leave nothing undone to secure the defeat of the referendum. 
They do, both in this Parliament and in the State Parliament. So far as New South Wales is concerned, it is undeniable, whether one looks to the local executive of the Labour movement, to the industrial movement, or to the meetings of the various trade societies, that there is a unanimous expression of opinion hostile to the proposal to conscript men for service abroad. When this Bill is stripped of the verbiage surrounding its clauses, what does it mean ? That a Labour Government, supported by the Liberals, are to set out next month for the purpose of capturing 32,500 of the young men of Australia, and possibly putting them into a compound for training; and, further, that, on the 28th October, persons who have no intention of going to the war are to be allowed to vote to decide whether the young men shall be sent to the war. That is a proposal I will not support. I am told that the Government have received some information about Canada and New Zealand, but, for reasons best known to themselves, they have not disclosed that information to Parliament.' Possibly at a later date, when the Senate is not sitting, the information will be published in the press, showing that the British Government has made on Canada and New Zealand practically the same demand as has been made on the Commonwealth. I do not say whether the Government are justified or not in withholding that information, but we ought to have it as soon as possible, and all available facts ought to be placed before the people. That has not been done, and it is almost impossible to ascertain what the position is, but the great fact stands out that there are about 150,000 able-bodied, eligible men in the Commonwealth, and, if the proposal of the Government is given effect to, the whole of those men will be called up for military service within a few months. 
The number of young men who are fit is so limited that it must be exhausted within a few months, and the married men will quickly follow. It is true that the Parliament of the Commonwealth raised no objection when  Mr. Fisher  said that Australia waa prepared to sacrifice the last man and the last shilling. Nor was objection taken to the despatch of any of the contingents, until  Mr. Hughes  offered an additional 50,000, to which some objection was taken. But had the electors known that the offers that were being made would involve the obligation of sending 16,500 men a month, the strongest objections would have been taken to them. The present position has been brought about gradually by a concerted conspiracy of the Liberals. The voluntary system has not had a fair chance. Yet already in this month, in which no special effort has been made, 5,000 men have voluntarily enlisted, and I am confident that with very little effort we could get at least 16,000. I do not believe that that number is needed to maintain our troops at the front at their present strength,  but- if the voluntary system had a fair chance, there would be no need for compulsory service, which is probably the most hateful thing that could be proposed, and to me very distasteful. There is another matter to which I invite attention, and that is the number of persons exempted from military service under section 61 of the Defence Act. The members and officers of the Commonwealth and State Parliaments are exempt. Why should they not be called upon to fight if needed ? Why should the Judges of one Federal and State Courts be exempt? Then the police, a fine body of men, and the magistrates, are exempt. Ministers of religion, of whatever age, cannot be compelled to serve. Nor can those employed in the police and prison services. There may be some excuse for exempting lighthousekeepers. Medical practitioners and nurses in public hospitals, persons who satisfy the " prescribed authority " - a most convenient term - that their conscientious beliefs do not allow them to bear arms, and, finally, all engaged in employments specified by the regulations, or by proclamation, are exempt. Do you wonder that the working people are opposed to conscription? It must be remembered that under regulations issued when Parliament is not in session, the Government can exempt railway employees, munition workers, and many others. So that finally it will be the unskilled labourer who will be called up to go into the fighting line. I am not surprised that the organized workers of the country express hostility to conscription,  and will continue to do so until the referendum proposal meets its fate on the 28th October next. I support the Bill because I think that this Parliament should not take upon itself to come to  a  final determination upon a question on which the public has never been consulted.  Mr. Fisher, Mr. Hughes,  and other leaders have proclaimed from time to time that under no circumstances would they send men abroad to fight against their will. No doubt the Prime Minister regards the existing circumstances as pressing and vital. I appreciate the continuous and valuable services that he has rendered to the Labour movement. 
Yes ; and but for the strenuous misrepresentation of the Liberal press, and the indifference of those who should encourage recruiting, more than enough men would volunteer. 
Probably it will be found, very much to the honorable senator's disappointment, that nearly enough men to fill the enormous draft on which the Prime Minister insists will volunteer. 
The referendum being a plank of the Labour party, an important question like conscription should be referred to the people. The objection has been raised that men beyond the fighting age, women, and others who will not be called upon to fight, are to vote at the proposed referendum. But, notwithstanding this, I am prepared to refer this matter to the electors as a whole. I am glad that the Government have discovered that it will be easy to provide for the voting of our soldiers. Some think that they will give a block vote for " Yes," and others hold a contrary opinion ; but in either case, they should have their " say." It has been suggested that, while the workers are opposed to compulsory service, they themselves have not gone to the front, yet nothing could be more untrue.  The bulk of those under arms are unionists. We have it on good authority that 30,000 members of the Australian Workers Union, 1,500 members of the Sydney Wharf Labourers 
Union, and 500 members of the Coal Lumpers Union have enlisted. On the other hand, you find the ranks of the Pastoralists Association and similar organizations unbroken. 
There is one other question about which I wish to speak. Hitherto we have met the expenses of the war by borrowing from abroad, and, more recently, in Australia. Strong objection was taken to the payment of 4£ per cent, for money borrowed in Australia. 
What a silly thing it would have been to pay a man 4$ per cent, on a loan to the Government, and then to impose a tax on the interest! If the rate of interest is too high, why not pay less ? But I regard as foolish the proposal to pay a man to collect  per cent, from the bondholders by way of income tax. The circumlocution is unbusiness-like. The suggestion made in this chamber some time ago that no interest should be paid on our war loans did not meet with my approval. Even in war time I do not think that we can get men to give their money voluntarily free of interest. We have sufficient from the last war loan to meet our requirements for three or four months; but we must look ahead to see how the balance of the expenditure on the war can be met. Unfortunately, the Government cannot propose land values taxation without exemption without violating the platform of the Labour party, which contains the provision that a man who owns £5,000 worth of land shall not contribute to the Commonwealth land tax. Some people would strike a level in every person's salary and sweep the balance of his earnings into the war pool; but it would be most unfair to fix that level at £300 per annum, and take £700 from the man who earned £1,000 per annum, and allow the nian owning £5,000 worth of land to escape without any payment. That method of taxation does not appeal to me. I hope that the Government will bring down a proposal to deal with the matter in an uptodate way. I have a suggestion which would get over the difficulty of violating the platform of the Labour party. It  may be heresy on my part, and a departure from my previously expressed views in regard to land values taxation; but these are war times, and we require an immense amount of money. We need approximately £2,000,000 a week under present circumstances, and if the opponents of Labour succeed in conscripting another 200,000 men before July next, we shall need about £3,000,000 a week. How are we to get the money ? I do not think that this Chamber will consider any proposal to borrow more money at 4£ per cent. The only people from whom we can get money are those who have it. Many persons favour the imposition of the wealth tax. I believe as a means of taxation that it is economically quite unsound; but, as I have said before, these are war times.  Mr. Knibbs  has assured us that the privately-owned wealth of the Commonwealth is about £1,000,000,000. An annual lew of 10 per cent, on that wealth would produce a revenue of £100,000,000, which would pay the expenses of the war week by week without placing any responsibility on posterity. Some talk of equality of sacrifice, but the risk of losing one's life is not equalled by the sacrifice of some of the wealth one possesses, and Parliament should have the courage to impose a straight out levy of 10 per cent, on the wealth of the community, enabling the Government to pay handsomely those who go to the front, and those who suffer through the absence of their breadwinners. 
To ships, buildings,  script  land values, cash, and all similar commodities. If we call it a wealth tax, and allow no exemptions, land values will be called upon to pay 2s. in the £1. I admit that it would be an extraordinary tax, but at a time when we ask the most robust men in the country to sacrifice their lives, the owners of wealth would willingly pay up. I do not know what the proposals of the Government are with regard to the taxation which they consider necessary to meet the requirements of the Commonwealth, but I put forward that suggestion. It is not quite in my line, because I do not like to stray from the straight path of land values taxation. If the Government increase the income tax or bring forward a wealth tax we shall probably support them, but as no person should be exempt from taxation in war time, I hope that they will have the courage to tax all land values without exemption. If they do so they will do more to keep open the avenues of employment than any other scheme they can propose. I realize that no matter what taxation is imposed it will have to be paid by the workers. Only those who can produce can pay. Therefore, I fail to understand the strong opposition that is always offered to the most equitable scheme of land values taxation on which I have spoken so often. I conclude by saying that I regard the question that has been engaging our attention this evening as the most important that has ever been before the Commonwealth Parliament. We want more men and more money. I do not want to get the men by conscription, and I shall fight against it for all I am worth, because I believe that we can get them by voluntary effort. The proper amount of attention has not been given to the matter of recruiting by voluntary effort. It is absolutely wrong to .call any man a shirker. The war has been in progress for over two years, and the work of recruiting had scarcely begun before some people were abusing those who stood back, and calling them shirkers. These men who stood back are now in the firing line, and those who are now standing back will be in the firing line to-morrow. That there are very few shirkers in Australia is proved by the enormous number who have gone freely. I am satisfied that we can get all the men we require by the voluntary system, and all the men we should send to the front. 
We cannot emphasize too much the fact that this is a grave issue, because the more we realize its gravity, the more need we shall see for clearing away the mists of prejudice and applying to its solution all our mental powers and faculties. It is the gravest  question  that has been dealt with in this country since the time the native race was in undisturbed possession of this spot; and in this country's future history it is doubtful whether any turning point will equal in importance that which we have now arrived at. Certainly none will ever surpass it. The question being so momentous, I would impress upon every honorable senator the indispensable necessity of casting from his mind every possible trace of prejudice or prepossession, because if he proceeds to discuss the question with an unprepared mind, he is simply trifling with himself and with the future destiny of his country. It is necessary that we should have the utmost freedom of thought and speech in dealing with the question. I believe we shall have it. If we do not get it in this freedomloving Commonwealth, there is no chance of having it in any part of the world. But a strong element of those who clamour so loudly for freedom of speech and thought, that priceless possession which every individual enjoys in an advanced community like ours, is made up, of the very ones who are not conceding it to others. Those who demand freedom of speech should at least set the example by conceding to the members of this Parliament in settling this question the same precious possession that they are claiming for themselves. 
I need not tell you, sir, as an old campaigner, what it means to have the right to express your thoughts. You have come through a long, sinuous, and difficult way. You can recall the time when you sacrificed much to obtain for yourself freedom of speech, thought, and action. Many a time men belonging to this party sacrificed a great deal for the sake of being able to speak their thoughts ; and when a tyrannical employer sent some of us on the track towards the western sun, with our bluey on our back, we went because we wanted what all free men want - the precious right to say what we thought. As the result of the efforts made by you and other veterans in the party, we reached a time when freedom of speech was possible; but now, strange to say, a section of the very party, one of whose main credentials to popular favour is the fact that it made real in this country freedom of speech and freedom of thought, is seeking to stifle it. It is indeed strange that a party such as ours, which has risen for the purpose of giving every individual liberty of thought, speech, and action, now that it has come to the zenith of its glory and power, should produce men who are ambitious to usurp the place of the tyrannical employer who sacked you and me and hundreds of other veterans. Is it thinkable? 
Is it possible? It has come to this. It is believable. 
In the first year of his popularity the pathway of the patriot is " roses, roses all the way," as Browning has it; but as the years go on, it becomes more and more difficult, until he meets at length the thorns, the shambles, and the gallows. So it is with those of us who have helped to build up this movement, whose ambition was to gain freedom of thought and speech, and who now find an attempt made to "gag" us, to seal our lips, to stifle our reason, to choke the well springs of thought, and deny us the right in this Parliament to say what we think should be done in order to steer this young nation of ours through the troubled waters she is in to-day. I cannot believe even now that the attempt will succeed. I believe there is still a balance of common sense in the world, that there still exists sufficient sense of fair play and fair dealing to insure that no such attempt to snatch from the individual that precious weapon which the Labour party has been instrumental in obtaining will be tolerated. I hope these words of mine, feeble though they may be, will reach corners that badly need reaching, and that those who have done this thing will see that their position can only be judged rightly by comparison. You can judge the action of any man only by juxtaposition, as the diamond shows its lustre best when the counterfeit is placed alongside it. These patriots think they have expressed the last word. They can be made to feel the  untenableness  of their position only 'by reminding them that their true friends are candid men, if I may include myself. That reminder should bring them to a sense of reason. It is a hard, cruel path that they must tread. But when some persons take up a false position they can be made to see their error only by sundering friendships, even if they have lasted for a life-time. Better let friendship perish forever than that truth and wisdom should be submerged. The suppression of what is right is no less heinous when done by a majority than when done by the most besotted tyrant. These men who have so sadly strayed from the correct course of action must be brought back to it, or my friendship with them will be sundered Those of us who have struggled and slaved throughout the country, when we could have enjoyed ourselves if we had taken a more selfish view of life, are not the men to be told, at the instance of a section of our party, that we must get down to the level of poor dog Tray on an issue that has never been definitely before the electors. I am not going to become poor dog Tray yet. I have done some stone-breaking in my time in the Northern State, and would go back and break stones there to the end of my life before I would stoop to obey the orders of this irresponsible body on this greatest of issues. In this debate I shall, I am afraid, have to take up my wonted  role  of turning the other cheek to the  smiter,  although it is possible that on occasions, if I am tried too hard, I shall smite back. 
I support the measure for the referendum and shall support the carrying of the question in the affirmative, as a true, staunch, and convinced Labourite of 26 years standing, believing that by its passage by an overwhelming majority the best and most permanent interests of the party will- be served. I support it also, because I am an Irish rr an. It is necessary to speak on this point, because I have been criticised by some in a contentious spirit, occasionally bordering on the bitter. They ask why I support this measure of conscription, seeing that, as an Irishman, I should be opposed to it. Some people think the mere mention of conscription to an Irishman should be like a red rag to a bull. I am supporting it because I am an Irishman, in addition to supporting it because I am a firm believer in that political party which has come into existence to work out the social regeneration of the toilers of this country. 
A few facts bearing upon my reason for supporting it as an Irishman may be of interest. I support it because the policy now in operation in Australia has been in operation in the Old Country down the weary years. Because of its iniquitous operation in the island of my nativity, I am against it, so long as I have breath left in me. I do not care what my grandfather, or my father, thought about it, much as I cherish their memory. I am not here to glorify the system of voluntarism as it is sought to be perpetuated in this country. . I do -not regard it as a law written in the sky, which I must bow down to and adore. It is no true deity to me. To me it is a false god, and never shall I stoop down and burn incense before this false god. " Tablet of the old law," they call it. It is no tablet of the old law to me. If it is, I am here to smash it into atoms with all the force I can command. I shall do so because, wherever it has been tried, with but one or two exceptions, it has proved iniquitous, barbarous, and unsuccessful. 
I have said that I support conscription because I am an Irishman. I support it from that point of view because the operation of voluntarism, where I was« born, bred, and reared, was the means of "drawing off the best blood of that country - just as it is doing here to-day - -t; be spilt on foreign battle-fields. While Irish blood has thus been drawn off and spilt by the gallon on foreign battle-fields, the blood of other component parts of the Empire, especially the predominant partner, has been spilt only by the thimbleful. It is because I believe that it is not right to spill the blood of one section of the Empire by the gallon, and to allow the blood of other sections of it to be spilt sparingly, that I, as" an Irishman, support conscription. I support it because I believe that any one who has a regard for the future prosperity of this glorious country in which we live - the best, the brightest, and the freest on God's earth - must do so if he truly desires to serve it. I object to voluntarism in Australia on the same ground that I object to its application to Ireland. Believing, as I do, that the best blood of Ireland has been drawn off by voluntarism, and made to fertilize the fields of Europe, imparting to the green corn of spring a still greener hue by reason of the sacred element it fed upon, shall I stand idly by and see the  best blood of this country taken out of it in the same way? Never ! Never ! To do so would be contrary to all reason. It would be to follow the reasoning of a school girl of the meanest intelligence to assert that the best blood of Australia remains in the country to-day. No one can say that the blood of those who were the first to take their place in the fighting line is not the best that Australia has produced. It is because of the iniquitous draft that it has made on the blood of my native land that I, as an Irishman, object to voluntarism, and it is because I am here as an adopted Australian, prepared to let my bones rest in this, the brightest, the freest, and the best country in the world, that I object to such a system having any further ravaging effect upon the manhood of the Commonwealth. 
Let me come now to a few figures showing what Ireland has done in the way of supplying the fighting forces of the Empire. They may open the eyes of a lot of people, for the first time, on the subject. I have gone back to the figures relating to the British Army ii' the last century, in order to find out in what proportion the component parts of the United Kingdom - England, Ireland, Scotland, and Wales - have contributed to the Army. The figures oscillate, so to speak, but it will be found upon examination that they substantially bear out my contention. Unfortunately, the authorities that I have been able to consult are not complete in the information they supply. I begin with the figures of 1804, when the Peninsular war was going on. We find that in that year the population of England and Wales, according to  Clode's  Military Forces of the Crown,  page 384, was in round numbers 8.892,536; that of Scotland, 1,608,420; and that of Ireland, 5,395,456, and that the recruits obtained under the operation of the Army Reserves Act were 5,7S2 in England and Wales, 1,183 in Scotland, and 4,078 in Ireland. On a population "basis the number of recruits from Ireland was 16 per cent, more than in the case of England and Wales, and 3 per cent, more than in the case of Scotland. I have not been able to ascertain the composition of the British Army at that time. I endeavoured to do so, because it was my desire to have absolute facts to go upon, and to be standing on solid granite in submitting this contention. The next period to which I come is 1830, and in respect of that year I have the figures for the total Army. The population of England and Wales at that time was 13,896,797, Scotland 2,364,386, and Ireland 7,767,401. The contribution of England and "Wales to the infantry section - the main portion - of the British Army -was 40,649, Scotland 11,744, and Ireland 40,979. In other words, Ireland, with a population of 6,000,000 less than that of England and Wales, supplied 300 more soldiers to the infantry section of the British Army. And yet there are honorable senators of my party who tell me that because I am an Irishman I should be opposed to conscription. Taking the figures for the whole of the Forces, we find that in 1830, under voluntarism, Ireland contributed 71 per cent, more than did England and Wales to the infantry of the British Army. I have not had time to work out the percentage in the case of Scotland, but it was very slight. My last reference is to the figures for 1904. In that year the fighting men contributed by England and Wales to the British Army was .6 per cent, of the population. The. percentage in the case of Scotland was .47 per cent., and in the case of Ireland .7 per cent. There is again an increase in the percentage quota, Ireland supplying 16 per aGent. more than England and Wales, and 49 per cent, more than Scotland. So that at those three separate periods of the last century Ireland was far in the van in supplying the fighting men of the Empire. Ireland has always been to the front in fighting for the Empire, but not in the front, unfortunately, so far, in obtaining justice from that Empire. It is because I am here, and because of my name, that I am opposed to this rotten system of voluntarism. The best recruiting authorities always sent the recruiting sergeant to Ireland to fill the ranks of the British Army. Henry Grattan, the Irish patriot, said that of Nelson's fighting forces, numbering 75,000, one-half were Irishmen, while the Duke of Wellington, when the Catholic Emancipation Bill was being debated in the House of Commons, said that one-half of the army that followed him from Portugal to Waterloo were Roman Catholics. That may not be considered quite conclusive as to the number of Irishmen who followed him, but it substantiates in the main my contention that Ireland, as an integral part of the Empire, has in the past willingly spilt more than a fair share of her blood in winning those battles that have brought fame and power and wealth to the Empire. 
Having said so much on this phase of the subject, I leave it with the statement that it is because I am an Irishman that I am opposed to a system that has worked so barbarously in the Old Country, and is working so iniquitously here. I shall deal now with a few favorite illusions. We do not know exactly where we stand in regard to these things. Men hold opinions which they believe to be solid, but which are really illusions masquerading as sound ideas, when they have in reality naught but a substratum of ether for their foundation. If we want to do justice to ourselves, we must stand in this .chamber as thinking men, having knowledge, reason, and experience as our guides, and not as schoolgirls of the meanest intelligence in dealing with questions of this kind. We must have chapter andverse for our beliefs; we must have reasons for the faith that is in us if we have any pretence to sanity or mentality. The first illusion to which I want to refer is the opinion amongst Labourites that voluntarism is right and that conscription is wrong. That is really a delusion and an illusion, based on nothing more substantial than thin air, and it ought not to stand as an unchanged and unchangeable opinion. We are asked, however, to accept it as gospel truth, and those who have the temerity to oppose it in any form, we are told, should be anathema to the Labour party. That is what we shall come to. You, sir, having regard to what has been done in one State, should not be in the chair to-night. That is the pass to which we have come. So eternal has the rightness of this opinion on the question of voluntarism come to be regarded that it dare not be looked at. We must approach it with bowed head and bared feet. But the opinions of the Labour party to-day, like nature itself, are undergoing constant change. There is no phenomena in the physical world, no verity so well marked, as the fact that there is nothing so unchangeable as change. Voluntarism, with its doubtful origin, its bad pedigree, its evil associations and evil work, in this free Democracy, will not stand examination. Let me tell those of our party who say, "Do not dare to differ from tis on this question," that we have been changing our opinions repeatedly and for excellent reasons. I shall give them, a few homely illustrations, proving that it re- ' quires only the test of time to show up the ridiculousness, the hollowness, and the utter falsity of a position that we may once have occupied. 
The Labour party in this chamber once thought, in its wisdom, that to secure for it the best prospects and to insure for it the highest destiny, they should vote for the system of plumping. The present Minister for Defence took a leading part amongst those who believed that nothing could save this party unless the electors were given the power to plump. The battle was fought in this Parliament in a way that we all well remember. What has since happened? The position to-day is that instead of our party standing for the principle of plumping, the Opposition, who were once against it, and who struck at its very vitals, are clamouring for its adoption. Time proved that plumping was not to our advantage, although we held some years ago that it was. We believed in it then just as firmly as many in our party to-day hold that voluntarism is the proper system to adopt in raising our forces. Although the Labour movement had not then assumed its regular outlines of to-day, although it was not then the thoroughly highly-organized party that it is to-day, with various methods and devices for ruling itself, it did exist before its formal inauguration. It existed m various ways and forms throughout this continent. There was a time when this party lived, so to speak, in a fledgling state, or, to go still further back, in a germinal state. At a time when the party was advancing from the germ to the fledgling, and gradually to the fully-fledged noble eagle it now is in the aviary of the world's politics, its members were radically opposed to the opinion which Labour holds to-day on one most vital point. Trade unionism, before the party assumed power in the political history of this country, held the fixed belief that to introduce politics into its ranks would be to destroy it. I remember hearing  Mr.  Twomey,  President  of the Seamen's Union, make the statement in the Protestant Hall, Sydney, shortly before the 1890 strike, that " The moment you introduced politics into trades unionism you would burst it up. To introduce politics would be worse than to introduce religion into it." That was the all-pervading opinion on that point then. So that this movement, when it comprised better spirits than exist in its ranks to-day, had the fixed view that politics should be tabooed from all trade unions. We have changed right round from that opinion to-day. We are standing now at the other pole; and the reason we are here, thirty-one out of thirty-five senators, is that we have cast aside the old opinions as no good. 
And what was the case in regard to Federation in New South Wales, when the death-warrant to Labour members was signed? They were told that they must not vote for Federation, and even Sleath and Ferguson were expelled, or threatened to be expelled, because of a false belief as to what was in the interests of the Labour movement. Time has proved that Sleath and Ferguson were right, and the Labour movement, good and sound as it was in every way else, absolutely wrong and mistaken, as our presence here to-night testifies. In minor matters what has happened? Let us remember the former attitude of Labour in regard to the borrowing policy. How often have we paraded up and down the country, and declared for no borrowing, except on the most economical and stingy scale? Have we adhered to the policy we then advocated? Have we adhered to our former policy in regard to land nationalization? Do we still believe in the un alienation of Crown lands? There have been Labour Governments in power time and again which have not brought that reform about, simply because their reasoning has been brought to bear on this article of faith. These incidents prove that the Labour movement, in itscentral, germinal ideas, has suffered change; that the grand old touchstone of time has made change inevitable, aye, inescapable. Because we dare to throw doubts on a supposed unalterable principle we are anathema - branded as were the slaves in South Carolina. No advance has ever been made without some sacrifice, and the men who will not make that sacrifice fail to recognise that sense of solemn duty that would right the situation. 
But the time is coming when the voice of Labour will again ring true, just as the voice of Labour is ringing in Western Australia to-day. It is recognised there that in the social sphere of action we cannot be governed except by our head. In times like these that head is like the captain of a ship - from the skin-covered craft of median, al times to the modern ship of to-day - who sees the movements of the vessel better than can the man on the quarter-deck or in the stokehold. Both  Senator Guthrie  and myself have had some experience of sea, and when I was in the stokehold I did not take upon myself to advise the man on top, because 1 trusted him as the one on whose judgment my safety rested. In the opinion of Labour men in Western Australia the leaders have a better chance of sizing up the position from every stand-point, with their wider powers of observation, and, above all, with that absolute confidence we have in them that they will not play false to their trust. They have trusted their leaders in the past, and in this crucial hour they are prepared to trust them still. The people of Western Australia know that the information that is in the mind of the Prime Minister cannot be divulged, any more than oan the information that is in the mind of every leading power of the earth to-day - that years must pass before these secrets can be revealed for the sake of the nation's safety. I am sorry beyond the power of speech to think that members of this' Chamber should take advantage of the fact that the Prime Minister cannot give the public all the information that has been placed at his disposal. Every sane man knows that, in the interests of safety, there are things that must be left unsaid in the present situation. 
Our history shows that the laws of the Labour party have not been those of the Medes and Persians, but have been in keeping with human progress. Newman said that life was change - that to approach perfection was to change often; but now those who dare to support the present Government are told to sign or resign on an issue that was never before the people, and one that, transcends any issue that ever was or could be before them. Never was an issue so grave presented to us : and yet we have all this fiddling and juggling with figures in order to sustain a position that is in mid-air. 
I think I have dealt sufficiently with the illusion as to the unalterability of the policy of the Labour party. I deny that the opinion expressed outside on conscription is the opinion of Labour to-day; it is the opinion of  a section of Labour that is usurping functions in the most unwarrantable way, and paving the road to the disruption of a glorious movement with a bright future and great potentialities - wrecking the movement in the most suicidal way. It would seem that we have to go through much trouble before we reach a safe haven. It would be well if men could be brought to a sense of responsibility, and made to regard matters in perspective; but some of those concerned have not as much imagination as a slug or the outlook of a sand-fly on the question before the country. It is sad to think that men in responsible positions should use such arguments, or rather make such statements, in the treatment of this mighty question. The next illusion is that conscription means wage slavery. That is to say, it is urged that if this Bill is passed and conscription adopted, the Commonwealth will be reduced to a state of white slavery. If there are any honorable senar tors who really think that conscription will mean the breaking up of the unions, let them have the courage to stand up and say so. Is not the first argument of the opponents of conscription that it means disruption of unionism, and the bringing of the wage earner to the position of the serf? If that is so, why do they not stand to the charge they make? It makes me sick to think that we have reached a time when we cannot come to close quarters on a question; and my desire is to get those men into a consistent frame of mind. 
I never asserted that; and the honorable senator had better keep quiet. If the contention is correct that the passingof this Bill, and the adoption of conscription, means the breaking up of trades unionism and the conscription of the industrial side of life- 
And Locke said that the most prolific cause of differences amongst men was the failure to define terms and premises. If it is true that conscription for foreign service means wage slavery, must it not be equally true of conscription for home service. Conscription for either service should produce the same results. Compulsory training for home service is on our platform, and, that being so, those Labour men who are now opposing conscription on the ground I have mentioned, must admit that in the past they have never sought, as they allege, to remove a potential cause of wage slavery. 
Yes ; they have boasted of it from a thousand platforms. They stand condemned as hypocrites if they say that conscription for foreign service means wage slavery, the breaking up of unionism, and the conscription -of workers, while at the same time they have allowed this positive agency to bring about the same result - to remain on their platform for the last fourteen or fifteen years. They must admit that, to  give  the power to conscript men for home service, will not produce wage slavery, or that they have been face to face with an evil instrument all these years, holding over the toilers of Australia the power to menace and destroy their freedom, and have made no attempt to remove it. My friends express their dissent, but I have them in the vice, and they must stop there and squeal as they please. They have to admit that the power to conscript has not this evil influence as applied to home service, or that they have been grossly recreant to their trust in not removing it from their platform, and have been posing as hypocrites for the last fourteen years. I leave them to their choice of these alternatives. 
That is another illusion gone. 
I come now to deal with a further grand illusion. I have been linked up with  Mr. Joseph  Cook and  Sir William  Irvine, and others like them. I was on the platform last night with a few of them. Because I was there doubts have been cast upon my genuineness as a Labour man. According to the reasoning of some of these people, no matter what  Mr. Joseph  Cook and  Senator Millen  say, there must be something evil and malign in it. They forget entirely that these men have supported measures for which we have ourselves voted, and that they never then objected to their company. During the last fifteen years in this Parliament members of our party in the Senate have from time to time been found in company with men of the other  side; but some of our friends have discovered only now, when honorable senators opposite support this Bill, and are in favour of conscription, that we who are in agreement with them are in the company of something that means red ruin. My honorable friends cannot have the thing both ways. They cannot discover evil design now in association with honorable senators opposite, when on former occasions when it suited their purpose they gladly went wholly into their embrace on many an issue, minor or major though it may have been in character. According to the logic of these men, if  Mr. Joseph  Cook sent forward a message to the people of Australia that men should love their wives, that would be a reason why every Labourite in the country should turn wife-beater. I do not subscribe to that kind of doctrine. I can conceive circumstances when it may be not only possible, but absolutely necessary, in the interests of the common safety, for men of all shades of differences of opinion, political, religious, or otherwise, to cone together. 
I do not know whether any honorable senator present has been shipwrecked.  Senator Guthrie,  my old seaman colleague, may have escaped, but , I was shipwrecked once, and on another occasion was so close to it as to realize the stern reality of imminent danger to life as a terrible thing. "When the call to clear the life-boat came at 2 o'clock in the morning, in the midst of a terrific South Sea Island hurricane, when I was on the old  Birksgate,  and the rudder head was broken, I realized what it meant to be face to face with death. I realized, also, that there was no room for differences of opinion when it was a question of the safety of the whole. The imminent prospect was that the tyrannical skipper might be Joseph Cook, but he must pull on the same oar with Lynch, the A..B. There was no room for differences of opinion there. 
No room in the boat for the shirker, but plenty of room outside of it, and that is where he would have to go, quick and lively. Just as happens to a ship's company when they have to desert a ship under stress of circumstances, sp when the nation is faced with peril we must fling to the winds prejudice, opinions, and preconceived ideas in the interests of national safety, and there is no room then for the man who stands in the way of united effort - there is no room in the lifeboat for the men who will not take a hand at the oars. 
I come no w to the illusion about the conscription of married men. We have men in this chamber so tenderly solicitous for the married people of the Commonwealth that they fear for the poor married man who may be conscripted as a result of the passage of this Bill and the carrying of the referendum in the affirmative. Let me remind these men, who would like to safeguard the married men of Australia, that they have not been safeguarded under the voluntary system. There are at least 30,000 fatherless homes in Australia to-day because of our cowardice in hesitating to bring into operation a system of conscription. If it had been adopted those lost fathers would be with their wives and families in Australia to-night. We have honorable senators keenly solicitous because married men are going to be drawn upon under conscription when the available single men have been exhausted. Certainly, married men will be drawn upon, as in every country in the world that means to be free, but they are less likely to be drawn upon here if the 150,000 robust single men who could fight, but up to the present have not toed the scratch, had gone to the front. Rather than allow this country to go down, rather than desert our glorious flag, with its Southern Cross of stars, typical of man's spiritual redemption, and typical alike of man's social redemption in this land; rather than suffer it to be replaced by the twoheaded eagle, with cruel beak and claws, the fitting symbol of the soulless, relentless, fiendish spirit of the enemies of our country, the married men of the Commonwealth will rush to our colours for the defence of Australia. We who are supporting the Government proposal are defending the married section of the community more effectively than are those who will vote against this Bill, and will vote "No" to the question to be submitted to the people at the referendum. I will tell honorable senators why I say that. 
This Bill is introduced and the referendum is proposed for the purpose of making good the 'shortages due to the inadequacy of the volunteer system to supply the men we require. If we do not fill the gaps in our ranks and supply the 16,500 men required per month, if this Bill is not passed, and, unfortunately, this country should haul down its fla.&lt;r, the married men will be called upon still. By the passage of this Bill, and the carrying of the referendum in the affirmative, we shall draw upon the single men section of the community, and when they fill the gaps in our ranks to the required number, the married men will be safe. This is a safer policy for the married men of Australia than is the policy of those who are opposed to this Bill. Honorable senators cannot deny that by the passage of this Bill, and the carrying of the referendum in the affirmative, we will do more to safeguard the married men of Australia than will those who oppose the Bill, who vote " No " at the referendum. So much for that illusion. It is high and dry on the rocks with its ribs stove. in. I am sorry that it should have been submitted amongst intelligent men in this Chamber as an argument against the Government proposal. This Bill, and an affirmative decision at the referendum, will save the married men of Australia as long as they can be saved. Without the Bill and without an  affirmative  vote they will be drawn upon still. Do the anti-conscriptionists want that? If they don't, then they should drop their hollow pretence of sympathy for married men. 
I come now to examine the voluntary system. I said that I would have something to say about it. We have to decide whether we will continue the voluntary system or turn over a new leaf and replace it by another system. I can refer honorable senators to the history of the voluntary system in the Old Country. Let me tell them that the voluntary system, a? such, was never yet responsible for the winning of a war worth remembering by the British Empire. However strange that may appear to honorable senators, it is true. Let that soak into their minds. Side by side with the system under which the redcoated recruiting sergeant was sent into the poverty-stricken homes of Ireland, where the people eat seaweed, and to the industrial centres of England and Scotland, amongst -people living upon the most meagre fare and becoming degenerate, 
England had to rely upon going abroad to hire man butchers, mercenaries who fought for pay. This was the result of the iniquitous and cowardly policy of voluntarism that has failed in its purpose for so long. I could give honorable senators plenty of proof of what I have said. It is confirmed in brief fashion by a quotation from  Clode's  Military Forces of the Crown,  vol. 2, page 435, which I find at page 163 of  Britain's First Duty,  by George F. Shee, in these terms - 
Suffice it to say that foreign troops were largely employed by the British Government at various periods from the Revolution (1688) down to the Crimean War, the last occasion on which such troops were used by us. 
I remind honorable senators that 1688 was about the time when the feudal period came to an end and industrial England began. Bight from the start it is clear that the voluntary system has failed to sustain the Empire's cause in any war.  i  quote further - 
In 1813 nearly 54,000 foreign mercenaries were serving in our Army; and  Clode  says that the numbers we employed from 1804 to 1813 were small as compared with those engaged by us in earlier wars. 
So that 54,000 was a small number as compared with the number of mercenaries employed by Great Britain in earlier wars. These were employed side by side with the voluntary system, which, we are told, has been the salvation of the Empire. Never! The facts of history stand out like Wilson's Promontory to contradict such a hollow sham every time. Quoting further,  Clode  says - 
Our Continental wars were, I apprehend, usually fought with foreign rather than with native (i.e., British) troops. 

 Sitting suspended from '12 (midnight) to 1 a.m. (Saturday). 

There is an imposing list of current illusions concerning this subject; but I am only referring to those which are more apparent. I do not intend to occupy the time of the Senate unnecessarily in the examination of the whole of them, and so have selected only some of the more glaring illusions, those mental phantoms that are at present abroad in the public mind, and are being used soberly by members of the Senate. Another false position taken up by some people - and among them are members of this Senate - is that we have no right to conscript human life, because they hold to the belief that nothing is more sacred in human affairs than human life. I totally and absolutely disagree with that proposition. There is  something dearer than human life - terrible though it may seem to say so - and the thing dearer than human life is life worth living. Our forefathers, at all events, those of them who are worthy to be called to mind, recognised this truth, for they did not hesitate to lay down their lives either on the battlefield or in other stern fields of action to win for us the privileges we are enjoying to-day. May I remind those who subscribe to the belief that nothing is dearer than human life that we cannot create our own environment? There is a foolish notion abroad in the world that as a people we can create a set of conditions which, by their arrangement and interaction, can insure the safety of this country. The freedom we enjoy to-day is not the product of our effort or time in this country so much as it is the result of sacrifice on the part of ' our forefathers in the earlier phases of the history of our race. Human freedom to-day, I repeat, is the product of sacrifice. 
This freedom of ours is the choice fruit of sacrifice, sacrifice of life not necessarily by British soldiers or by the might of the British power, but rather - strange to sayagainst it on more than one occasion. The first shots fired at Lexington, in the American war of rebellion, were as much a contribution to our freedom as any other event in the history of the British race. 
Yes; all praise to the heroes of Eureka. But I am sorry to think that the spirit of Eureka, typified a thousandfold on a magnificent, but, unfortunately, not large enough, scale on the slopes of Gallipoli, is not abroad to-day among those Australians who remain behind. Had we more of the Eureka spirit at the present time there would be no need for this Bill. -It is because of its absence that there is need now for another course of action, as suggested in this Bill, to secure a sufficient number of reinforcements for our troops at the front. Our freedom has been gained as much by the overthrow of the 
British power as anything else. What did the late Lord Northcote and others tell us ? " The lesson learned in the Am erican war of rebellion," he said, " has never been forgotten by Britain." A handful of American colonists revolted, and rightly so, against the gross misuse of British power, with the result, as Lord Northcote said, that the lesson had never been forgotten. What did he mean? He meant that the freedom we enjoy now has been paid for in some measure by American soldiers' lives, showing again that we may owe our environment and freedom to causes so far removed from us both as to time and distance. And yet we are told in these days that we can do everything within our own borders. But, as I have shown, we did not obtain our freedom by our own action. It is the produce of sacrifice, by the conscription of men in other times, to advance the cause of liberty. What happened to France? The Revolution, that earthshaking epoch in history, contributed in large measure to the freedom of the world. The rebel blood shed at the barricades blossomed in the world's greater freedom. Those patriots who laid down their lives in that troublesome time - among them Robespierre and Danton - were offered up to the blind fury of the mob. 
In much the same way the Prime Minister of this country is paying the price of his patriotism. This is the lot of every patriot, from the Gracchi Brothers, of ancient Rome, and the founders of the land reform, down to our present time. Of the Gracchi Brothers,me was sent to his grave by the dagger of a member of the mob in the Roman Forum, and the other had to flee the country to escape the fury of the people. Washington, that man of stainless and immortal honour in the sphere of martial and political action, was described by the pen of Ordell as a perjurer and a liar, just as  Mr. Hughes  has been described to-day. Washington lives. Where is Ordell? The Gracchi Brothers live in grateful memory. Where is the mob? My countrymen's patriot, Henry Grattan, was once pursued by the. mob in Dublin, and grossly assaulted there. But how did he regard the temper of the Irish people towards his attitude and his supposed traitorship? 
What did he say? " I take no notice of them. I keep pegging away."  Mr. Hughes  is distrusted by the ungrateful mob outside; but if he sought to sell his talents in the markets of the world, if he showed the instincts of the mercenary, where would he be to-day? 
Yes, and you are one of the mob. 
Order ! The honorable senator must address the Chair. 
Order! I remind honorable senators that these interjections are always likely to provoke reprisals.  Senator Lynch  himself said he hoped the debate would be conducted without heat, and I hope that he himself, as well as other honorable senators, will endeavour to avoid personalities. 
Well, personalities will be avoided if honorable senators will address the Chair. 
Before passing from the treatment which our leader has been receiving after twenty-five years' association with the party, I can only say that the souls of fairminded men must be filled to overflowing with a feeling of unutterable sadness when they hear such attacks Upon one who has fought and striven to raise the Labour movement to its present proud position.  Mr. Hughes,  whom I knew twenty-six years ago, has suffered the pangs of hunger and the biting pitiless blast through his threadbare coat for the sake of the cause he loved. But he has not found those things so unkind as man's black ingratitude of to-day. We hope that the movement will be restored to its right position, but that cannot be done without sacrifice. We are on the eve of that sacrifice, and I, for one, am prepared to make it, if only for the reason that it may eventuate in getting the Labour party out of the dismal swamp into which it has been drawn for want of more sweet reasonableness in the minds of men. 
On the one hand they saw their country in jeopardy. On the other hand they heard the most sacred calls of domestic duty from father, mother, wife, and child. Their life was in the balance. Into one scale they put their most sacred obligations, dictated by God and Nature. Into that same scale they put their life, sweet and precious as life is to every man. In the other scale they put one thing alone - their country's imperious demand for help, and that bore the balance down. Will any honorable senator tell me that a man labouring under those fearful emotions is a free man ?  His  position is vastly different from that of that other noble type of volunteer who, recklessly flinging e'very other consideration to the winds, rushes irresistably  to his country's call. In the theatre of the other man's mind there is- a. conflict of duty.- On the one hand he is not free to go, because of the claims of sweetheart, wife, or child,, and, on the other hand, he cannot be indifferent to his country's call. He spends days and weeks in anxious worry, and when finally patriotism prevails, he offers a life which is as precious to him as life is to those men who do not go, and stop their ears to all pleading. That man is a moral conscript, but, according to the arguments of some honorable senators, it is the physical conscript who must be shielded; he is the most glorious example of humanity. I say that the physical conscript, weighed in the balance of human worth, is not as good a type of citizen by parallels of latitude as the man whom I have described, and who, as the result of the surging of unspeakable agony in his heart, went to his country's aid under the most powerful pressure ever exercised on man. I cannot regard him as a free being. Those honorable senators who by their votes in this Chamber created a state of war have made him a moral conscript, and as such he is more entitled- to' consideration than the physical conscript. The latter, although fit for active service, still hugs his life, and has been to-night the subject of lavish commiseration and pity, and almost of glorification. I tell  Senator Ferricks  that he has made moral conscripts, and every man who has voted a penny towards defraying the cost of Australia's participation in the War has bound those men in mental irons more cruel and galling, and put a heavier hand on them than can be put on the men who, by the operation of this Bill, will be told to come forward and do their duty. No matter how honorable senators may juggle with facts, the logic of that argument is inescapable. Can it be said that those men who have gone to the front as the result of moral pressure are volunteers ? In the every day sense of the word they are not. Therefore, the men who say that we who are in favour of conscription are acting in a foul, brutal, and relentless way - those Puritans of society, who say they will not conscript human life - are, in reality, more deadly types of conscriptionists than we ever knew how to be, because they are shielding men of a lower grade of character than those of whom they themselves have made moral conscripts. 
Another interesting phase of the question is the opposition which has come from that extreme section of the Labour party called Socialists. The policy of this Bill is perfectly compatible with Socialism. Its principle, indeed, is ideal Socialism. Voluntarism is opposed to Socialism, repugnant to its very essence and seminal purpose; conscription, on the other hand, is ideal Socialism. Socialism, if it means anything, means that the will of the individual must be subordinated to the common will and to the common weal. To put an individual above society is, accord ing to the doctrines of Socialism, preposterous. In the ideal social state - and I have read as many pictures of it as I could find in works of all kinds, from Plutarch's  Lives  and St. Augustine's  City of God  to More's  Utopia  - even the minor activities of life are governed according to the will of the majority. But it is the roof that covers and protects the building ; it is the roof that gives it security. When a society becomes insecure, it is in danger of perishing. Yet we are told that when the all-important issue of existence is to be settled, society can no longer subordinate the individual will to the common weal. The individual is then to put himself above the society, and it is to be saved, not by those who can and ought to fight for it, but by those who may. That, in truth, is not Socialism, but individualism - individualism rampant and carried to an extreme of dizzy absurdity. According to the canons of Socialism, in society's minor activities, the individual has no choice, but when the very life of society itself is threatened the individual is told by Socialists that he can please himself about defending it. Voluntarism places the in-, dividual above society, and yet somehonorable senators hold up their handsand call it Socialism. God help Socialism if theirs is a sample of the reasoning of" Socialists, and if it is on wisdom liketheirs that the Socialists appeal to thepeople to elect them to positions of responsibility. 
Then, again, Socialists say, " The world is my country" - tra-la ! "Mankind are my brethren ' ' - tra-la ! Frontierlines ! What are they? Where are&gt; they? Kick them aside, or rubthem out as though they weremarked with chalk. Those are theglorious doctrines which these gentlemen preach. I only hope that we shall' so shape our policy in our small spherenf action that there will shortly be brought about that consummation of which Tennyson sang - "When the war drums beat no longer." But what are Australian Socialists doing to achieve this muchtobedesired end? How is their vanguard acting to-day? Are they doing anything? No. On the contrary, they are preventing action from being taken by Australia. But. whose interests are at stake? Look at the situation of Europe to-day. Who is  suffering there ? Is it not our brothers, our "comrades," as they call them? Inside the German lines we have them fighting under that gallant soul,  Dr. Liebknecht.  He and his band are fighting our common enemy. The very fact that he is in gaolis a manifestation of the fight. He and his followers stand by the principle of Socialism, and contend against the power that must be humbled in the dust. Who are attacking that power from the front? The Socialists of France, Belgium, Italy, and Great Britain. There is a common effort by these " comrades " - to use the word we hear so often on the Yarra-bank - an effort made from within by  Dr. Liebknecht,  and from outside by the armies of the Allies, to crush, as between the hammer and the anvil, the might of German tyranny. But what are the Australian Socialists doing to help? They are not even decently neutral. As I told my fellow-Labourites at Kalgoorlie, on May Day they send their greetings to the " comrades " in France and in Germany, but if I were one of  Dr. Liebknecht's  supporters, or one of their so-called " comrades " in France, I would say, when these hypocritical messages came to hand, "Damn your greetings; it is men we need to help us in this fight against our enemy and yours. . You are not assisting us in this war, and yet you call us  comrades.' Hypocritical hogwash ! Damn comradeship, if this is a sample of it." " Comrades !" Is it not enough to make one's blood boil to see men content with words when there is this great struggle going on in the world to-day? Why is there not in the breasts of these persons some sleeping instinct that can be aroused, so that there may be a revolt, and an end put to these hollow pretences, these tricks that are being played under high heaven by those who masquerade as Labourites and Socialists, but are neither. They should spring instinctively to arms, as the tiger springs to protect her cubs, and show themselves true comrades, instead of professing to be comrades, and proving themselves real enemies by keeping help from those who need it. What would  Dr. Liebknecht,  or any French, British, or Italian Socialist say to them? They would say, "We have by our sides gallant men from Australia. They were honest enough not to call us ' comrades ' in the past, but in the hour of peril they have come to us, and have proved themselves true comrades, while you, cowards, slink in safety - like a dog with his tail between his legs in his hiding-place - 16,000 miles away. Yet you dare to call us comrades! Remember, as you have not made this war of ours your war, when we are fighting as much for your freedom as for our own, do not expect us to make your war, when it comes, any concern of ours. But we will . promise when your war comes to call you ' comrades,' and send ' greetings ' to help you through." Language fails me. I cannot adequately express my indignation at the extraordinary hypocrisy manifested by these so-called Socialists, these alleged Australians ! The real Socialists, who are fighting for their lives, and for their liberties and ours, are entitled to say to the Australian Socialists, " You call us comrades, but you keep help from us!" Jaures and Bebel, if alive today, would say things like those. When, in the present state of affairs, they talk of the world being their country and mankind their brethren, these Australian Socialists are, to use the words of Sydney Smith, "indecently exposing their intellects." They impugn their manhood by the attitude they are assuming to-day. Plain speaking is a tonic at times, and it is well that it should be indulged in now, so that the true position may be shown. You cannot support yourself in time of trouble, and you will never triumph when you rely on principles that lean this way and that, but are never perpendicular. Although we are at the antipodes, our principles must not be upside down, must not work backwards. True principles are eternal things, and changeless; only such will pull a party through, and when it has gone astray and lost its true guiding star, will help it to recover the right road. I have said these things in the hope that by drawing attention to the unsoundness of their position many of these persons will feel that they have made a mistake. 
Let me come now to another matter. It has been said in this chamber that the unionists of Australia have done more than' their fair share in this war. My impression is that  Mr. Doyle,  the  President  of the Sydney Labour party, has stated that 90 per cent. of the men of our 
Expeditionary Forces were recruited from the ranks of unionism. I do not wish to do  Mr. Doyle  injustice by quoting him incorrectly, but those are the figures that remain in my mind. If the facts are as stated, if 90 per cent, of the men who have taken arms were recruited from the ranks of unionism, and Labour is doing more than its fair share, is it not time that we had a change, and asked the capitalists and their sons - who, if these statements are correct, must be shirking - to take up their responsibilities? The Government propose a change in Australia's course of action. There are three ways in which we can perform our part in the present struggle. Even the most lethargic mind among us must by now have awakened to the fact that the Empire is at war, and that we have over a quarter of a million of our best men in the field. This legislation may be taken as a formal declaration of war on the part of Australia. It has been said by some that Australia has already done too much. What do they mean? Do they suggest that we should not do anything more, or that our efforts should be on a  smaller scale - in other words, that we should make a pretence of doing something? There are some who would have us stand still altogether, on the plea that we have done enough, while others would say, " Let what we have to do be done leisurely, in a half-hearted manner." We have our choice between three methods: We can make a pretence of doing something; we can act half-heartedly; or we can make the full-hearted, whole-souled effort that is proposed by the Government. We cannot entertain the idea of making our effort a form or pretence. Whatever faults Australians may have, they cannot pretend. We. all have our faults, and it is well to recognise thiem. I have mine - more than enough, God knows ! And I would wish that every individual, or every section of society, in turn would recognise that he or it has faults. But 'we have arrived at a stage when some men in the Labour movement think that once they have spoken the last word of wisdom has been uttered, and nothing can be said contrariwise. If a half pretence is to be our aim, it must be ruled out, because Australians by nature cannot be pretenders or pOSturers. Then, is it to be a half-hearted effort? If we jog along leisurely, sending away 5,000 men a month, it will be a halfhearted effort, like calling out a fire-brigade one at a time. But has Australia made half-hearted efforts in its past history' We brought this vast continent of ours under subjugation in a short space of time, and in that pioneering effort we have not proved ourselves half-hearted. Have we done so in the industrial sphere ? No. In that field we have done marvels; we have proved ourselves whole-hearted en-' deavourers.  What have we done in sociology? What are the laws that we have made here and in the State Parliaments? In our endeavours to strike a correct social balance between the various sections of society, and to advance Australia, we have set an example to the world. In any action which is of a national character, where have our efforts been half-hearted? When Miss Shaw came to Australia and, from an imperfect knowledge gained on skirting our coasts, pictured the Australian as leaning against a post, did we not all resent it? Yet today we are told by certain gentlemen that we should lean against a post and conduct the war in that leisurely way. But since the first white settlers landed in Australia until now, we have not proved ourselves half-hearted or faint-hearted in what we have done. The pioneering spirit is in our blood, and the fizz is in that blood still. Then why are we told to be halfhearted in this war, or to lean against a post? At the most critical period of our lives we are told that we should call a halt, or slow down, or shorten the line. We cannot be half-hearted. The wholehearted method remains as our standard, and the Bill is in keeping with it. It is in keeping with our purpose, with our history, and with the genius of our race, to make a whole-hearted effort on every occasion. In this war we are fighting in order to maintain our liberty. What liberty do we possess? The greatest measure of liberty enjoyed by any civilized people, past or present, to-day. 
Let us compare Germany with Australia. In Germany, where does the first Minister of the land - Bethmann-Hollweg - frame a national policy ? Does he go down among the people? No. Where does  Mr. Hughes,  the first Minister in Australia, go to frame a national policy? He is now down among the people, getting them to frame and forge the national will. The difference between what is happening in Germany to-day and what is happening in Australia is clearly shown by BethmannHollweg remaining away from the people while moulding a policy that affects millions and by  Mr. Hughes  putting the case to the people by way of a referendum, and getting them to fashion their own policy. Does Bethmann-Hollweg go to the Trades Halls of Germany, as Hughes does in Australia? 
I am a peaceful man. I am anxious that the time should come when there will be no such thing as war. To those who are so fond of talking peace, £ say, If we have- never had the chance in our lives before, we have at least on this occasion the chance of setting a bright, glorious, and golden example to the nations of the world. For the first time i l the history of the human family we have the spectacle of a nation about to make a formal declaration of war. And who is going to do it? The people themselves, uninfluenced by any consideration, at the ballot-box. If we would set an example to the world, the opportunity is right here. The ball is at our feet to show other nations  incrusted  with old-time usages and hoary traditions how wai should be declared, if that fearful arbiter has to be invoked. Has any other nation done this ? Let them copy Australia. In the future the nations will ask, " What did Australia do?" And the answer will be, " It declared war formally by the will of the people." Have other nations done so ? No. Here is the opportunity to set a glorious example to civilized men as to how war should be declared', while at the same time we should be going to the rescue of our comrades in the trenches. 
I am hopeful that my friends who oppose me will even now realize that there are spots on the sun and that their position is unsound. If their action should lead to a majority for the "Noes," this country will cover itself with immortal and indelible shame. If we do not maintain our good name, help our good friends at the front, and preserve our freedom by fighting for it, Australia will cut a very poor figure in the world ; and if ever the time should come for us to fight our own battle, we shall fare badly. If we measure our effort with a stingy hand we shall be guilty of self-enacting a warrant to others that we be left to stand alone when our hour of peril strikes. When these comrade nations are little less than wrecks of their former selves, we could not expect them to come to our aid in that hour. If I were a Britisher, a Frenchman, or an Italian, and saw my country subject to decimation, while Australia preserved her manhood that ought to be at the front in the common fight, I would think nothing of her when her war came. 
As comrades we should pay the current prices and not sweating prices in the hour of struggle. We have declared against sweating rates in Australia; but the men who say that in this war we have done enough already and ought to shorten our line are in effect advocating the payment of sweating prices for our share of the struggle; and should Australia step forward to garner the fruits of victory whilst still having here a reserve of able-bodied manhood that ought to have been in the firing line, she will cover herself with immortal infamy - a shame that will never be wiped out, no matter what our boys may have done. I hope that the blood of cur country that spurted like a fountain on Gallipoli in freedom's cause has not grown stale or been watered down. We have proved it. But if we do not  go  on, are we as a nation not growing prematurelv old? Have the seeds of senile decay entered our young bones? 
We have before us that sorry example of degeneracy - a nation which was the pride of nations in the past, and gave to the world examples of brotherhood and heroism, and led in the advancement of every art and science. I need not name it, but it has been described by Byron as a " Sad relic of departed worth." If we are going to leave our comrades unhelped and ask them to do the fighting for us, we shall sink to the level which that nation occupies today. 
Shall it be said of Australia, " Australia, but living Australia no more"? Never! Our men are there shouting "Coo-ee!" from across the sea. My advice is to Coo-ee in return. Let us cry, " Coo-ee ! we are coming." Never in our short, but glorious, history has that cry for help been made in vain. Shall it be in vain this time? No. Never! " Australia will be there!" 
After the impassioned address to which we have just listened, any one may be pardoned for feeling somewhat nervous, especially if he desires to advance arguments in opposition to  Senator Lynch's  views.  His  speech would almost lead one to believe that amongst those who differ from him on this question there is no patriotism or consideration for the welfare of Australia or the Empire, but that they are simply laggards and unworthy of the name of Britishers, although they may be as zealousand earnest for the cause of righteousness and truth, and the protection of the Empire, as those who agree with him. The men he has been traducing to-night are those who for the last two years have been in the vanguard of the propaganda for supplying troops to maintain our position at the front. From no other body can it be said that there has been the same ready response or the same activitydisplayed as by those who to-day see fit to oppose the policy promulgated by the Government. We are gradually getting into closer grips with our enemy, and there is cause for the utmost vigilance and determination on the part of the British Empire and its Allies : but to insinuate that those who differ from the honorable senator's policy are less interested or less earnest in the fight than are the advocates of conscription, is unworthy of any one who knows the history and spirit of the men about whom he speaks. The unions of Australia are the main force opposing conscription. 
The unions almost to a man in many of the States have shown their antipathy to the principle of conscription, and if any section of the people has the right to object to it, it is the organizations which have shown the utmost diligence and watchfulness in the prosecution of the war. They certainly have the right to speak, if any voice is to be heard in opposition to this new method of prosecuting the war. That the unionsare opposed to the principle of conscription is well known. They are seeking in their own way to safeguard the cause which they have all along been fighting to maintain. The preservation of their liberty and freedom of action is the guiding principle actuating them in the contest, and I am sure that if the same earnestness and interest had been displayed in the recruiting system as has been engendered in this debate, the. cry for more men would not have been heard as it is to-day. The gradual falling off in the numbers offering is due to the fact that we have lost interest in the propaganda instituted at the commencement of the war. Because there has not been the same continuous and ready response to our appeal, we are asked to class those who have failed to come forward as undesirous of. carrying on the war or unwilling to serve their country. There are many contributing causes why our youth have not come forward in as large numbers as we might have expected. In a large measure the reports now filtering through the press are one continued cry of victory and success to our arms. We are assured that the war is virtually over, or that the supply of men at the front is so great that there is hardly any need to send men so many miles across the sea from such a country as ours, when millions of others are available so much nearer. It is pointed out that we have a continent to protect and maintain fourteen times as lar,ge as Germany, and isolated by so many thousands of miles of distance that it is unwise and unnecessary to gather from the four corners of our continent the few men we have at our disposal. It is said that they are more needed here in their own country. Those statements have influenced many, and no doubt led to the relaxation of interest in propaganda work. If the same interest had been manifested in the recruiting campaign since the beginning of the conscription cry, we should have had no room to complain of the results. Since the inception of this agitation a spirit of bitterness and hostility between man and man, and particularly between the parties affected, has been engendered. It is apparent to the workers, who arc keenly watching events, that the agitation has not sprung from their own ranks. They were doing all that could be expected of them, and their efforts have met wi'-li the approbation and admiration, not only of the British people, but of the whole of our Allies. The part we have played as the result of the voluntary effort lias astounded the world, for never before have such deeds been seen as those performed by our gallant Australians. That has not been done by the spirit of conscription. The results achieved are due to the spirit of Eureka - the spirit that animated the Spartans of old to jump into the breach and fight for the cause they held so dear. In the earlier days of the war men appealed from every platform to our people to take up arms to defend their King and country. To send out men as if they were convicts, to seize them by the scruff of the neck and force them into the ranks, is not the way to produce the best results. The proper way is to appeal to that inner spirit which prompts men to fight for their country's cause, and maintain its honour. If you appeal to that, you appeal to the spirit of the race from which our people have sprung. 
The slackening off in the results is due largely to the apathy and inertia of those who are now so diligent in their advocacy of conscription. 
But not by all who could have made it. I admit that the honorable senator, with myself and others, has nothing to be ashamed of in that regard. Many have sacrificed themselves, and felt it a glorious privilege to do so, in their efforts to awaken the manhood of this country to a sense of their danger, and the need to serve in the Empire's cause. But, whilst that is true of a number of individual members, who have felt a sense of responsibility in regard to the war, it has certainly not bee]true of the Federal Government and those who sit on the Ministerial and Opposition benches as a whole. There has been simply a lackadaisical effort confined 50 individual members, who were left to their ow resources. They could work if they liked, and do the other thing if they liked. It has become utterly impossible for those anxious to help in the matter to do anything. It seemed as though no one was interested, and no one prepared to organize except a few enthusiasts. Wu have, therefore, ourselves largely to blame for any unresponsive feeling that provails in the community. We cannot condemn the Australian people for their response. They have already done a great deal. I do not suppose it was thought as the commencement of the war that Australia would ever be able to organize an army of 300,000 men, or even to raise them so readily in so short a time. I am sure the British Government never expected Australia, with its vast area and scattered population, to gather together a formidable army twice as great as the standing Army of Great Britain when hostilities began, or that we would play such a noble part as we have done. 1 am not going to make that an excuse so far as the future is concerned. I would rather walk out of this chamber than cease my efforts to prosecute the war to the last man and the last shilling. If, in the coming campaign, we urge conscription upon the people, we shall not create among them harmony or union or a spirit of solidarity. I fear the worst results, if I judge aright the present attitude of organized Labour, and that is something to be reckoned with. We cannot afford, even in this august chamber, to defy the forces of organized Labour outside, noi" have we the right to disregard its will in discussing this issue. But if I thought organized Labour was opposed to the prosecution of the war, much as I love the cause of Labour, much as I owe to it, I would scout the idea that I should pay any regard to its wishes. I would pay no heed to it if I thought it  indifferent  or apathetic, or regardless of the consequences likely to follow from the present world-struggle. But the men in the Labour organizations who protest' against being forced to do that which is now being voluntarily done, who are not prepared to be taken as convicts or as conscripts, will respond, when they are wanted, according to their ability and their strength. Many of them have already nobly responded. The organization to which I have belonged for over thirty years has. sent from 23 per cent, to 24 per cent, of its members to the front. They are daily recruiting, and will continue to do so while the war lasts, and the same is true of other industrial organizations. I take it as a libel upon the Labour movement to say it has lost its zeal in- the prosecution of the war. It seeks only to maintain the freedom and liberty of its members within our own country and under our own laws. Given that free right, and given an awakened spirit of interest and zeal, I am quite sure that we shall be able to do all that we can reasonably be expected to do. I do not see that we can continue to send reinforcements to the extent that has been desired of us. I think that the demand for 32,500 for the present month, with an additional 16,500 per month thereafter, is really exacting too great a toll from our sparse population. While it may be necessary to maintain our reinforcements, I cannot dissociate the Australian soldier from the British Tommy or the brave French, the Russians, and others who are allied with us in the prosecution of this war. We stand as brothers side by side. It may be that there has been given us a place of honour ; but if, through lack of numbers, we are unable to maintain those reinforcements, our boys will never surely have to stand and do the work of three, as has been alleged. They can only do that which they are capable of doing - no more and no less. The position is clearly before us that we are not asked to do more than we can, and I am perfectly sure that the spirit of gallantry will be best maintained By appealing to the best instincts of our humanity, and by awakening our men to a sense of the glory of duty. If there is to be any further impetus given to the cause of recruiting, I think that the conditions laid down might be considerably relaxed. There are many not engaged in service to-day who, if the regulations were not so strict, could render good service. There are men who, perhaps, are above the military age fixed by the regulations, but who are equally as active as many under the age. Yet the capacity, the ability, and the desire of these men are to be set aside, and Australia is to bear the odium of being conscripted and forced into action. That position will not make for the progress and full development of a young country such as ours. 
I have endeavoured to point out that that indictment was undoubtedly a slur and a libel upon, the Labour movement. As a Labour man, I resent it. 
Undoubtedly. Whatever may be the demands made upon us, right up to the conclusion of this war, I make bold to say that, as the need is felt, so will be the results achieved. A great deal of the lacking that has been displayed has been due to the fact that the. call has not been of that urgency which was manifested at the commencement of the war, and which was seen while we were conducting our campaigns throughput the country. It must be acknowledged that in the prosecution of this war the Federal Government, as a Government, has relegated its responsibilities and its duties to the States. It has not taken the lead as it ought to have done. I am free to admit that on the War Council we have had our representative, but we have heard no more. We have been utterly oblivious of what has been taking place in council. It has never been made a burning question in this Chamber. It has never come up as a subject for consultation and consideration. We have simply been asked what we are prepared to do, and there the matter has been allowed .to drop. There has been no unique organization in the prosecution of this war, so far as the Federal Parliament  is  concerned. Before we dare ask the people to submit themselves to compulsion when we have not organized for service, and have not put forward inducements that would have awakened their interest and called for a ready response, that course is incumbent upon us. We find that even under the present system the dislocation of the wheels of industry is something that we cannot afford to neglect. I am quite cognisant of the fact that in the case for the Government, as stated by the Prime Minister and those who are associated with him in Cabinet, it has been said that due consideration will be given to the continuity of industry and to the affairs of State. That undoubtedly is a principle that we have to admire. But we find that often, since our boys have been called upon to leave their work and to go into camp to undergo training as members of the ordinary Citizen Forces, appeal after appeal has come from employers asking the Government to make the conditions such that more than a certain number would not be called into camp at once, since the system was dislocating the wheels of industry, and making it impossible for them to carry on their work. In the course of the ordinary manoeuvres and training connected with the preparation of our citizen army during the progress of this war, time and again consideration has had to be given to the position in which industry is placed as the result of such a call on the Citizen Forces. Most of the lads in our Citizen Forces are fit for ser vice, yet they have not responded to the call for active service, and they have not been appealed to as they might have been. Many of them are prosecuting tasks in industrial life which are necessary for the welfare and well-being of others. We cannot afford to dispense with every man. Some men are as much required here as at the front. I think that a great deal of innuendo and many slurs have been hurled at men who are quite as worthy in the positions they occupy at present as are the men who are in khaki. 
Just so, and those men are not entitled to be insulted as. they have been. 
This is certainly a time for calm deliberation. Whatever may be our native temperament, we have at all times to remember the claims of others. We are not likely to help on the cause by throwing out unnecessary insults. I address these remarks not only to those who feel these things because they happen to be in civilian life, but to those who may differ from us in their political views. I yield to no man in my admiration for the Prime Minister,  Mr. Hughes.  There is no man who has been my delight in political life more than that right honorable gentleman has been. I still esteem him highly. I know of no man who is spending himself more than he is doing at the present time. There is no man whom I believe to be more sincere and more desperately in earnest than he is in the prosecution of this war. I cannot believe that those who speak disparagingly of him can in their very heart of hearts believe what they say of him. I think that their words must recoil on their own heads, whether they differ from him politically or not. The name of  Mr. Hughes  will stand in history after this war has passed and gone, and he will appear as one of the greatest luminaries of the British Empire during the period of the war. While I hold these views, I want at the same time to have regard  for the humblest men in every walk of life. I want to pay them the regard to which they are entitled. We shall indeed be in sore straits when we take by the scruff of the neck a man with full responsibilities, having the custody of his own life, and force him into camp, and compel him to live the life of a conscript. What a degradation it would be for him to go oversea. He could not boast of chivalry and gallantry as can the men who have gone voluntarily to the front. You have to prove right up to the hilt your case that you cannot get nien, and I charge this Government with not having done all that it might have done to secure . the desired result. By reason of the daily appearance in the newspapers of glowing accounts of the prosecution of the war, concealing adversities that have met us, our people have been allowed to go to sleep in the belief that all is going well. Our people have been called shirkers, and other hard names have been applied to them, when, if the true position had been known, the response to the call for volunteers would have been much different from what it is to-day. 
That may be so, but, nevertheless, the position was never presented to them as accurately as it stands to-day. This mighty awakening, had it been concentrated in an effort to obtain voluntary enlistment, would, perhaps, have proved quite different in its result. I am satisfied that many of the men who refused to say "Yes" to the appeal, if talked to in a casual and quiet way, would alter their opinion, and be quite ready to respond to the utmost of their capacity. Having regard for the men outside who have the right to be heard, whose opinions must be respected, who stand at the head of great organizations of labour, who have the confidence and support of the men whom they are leading, upon whom so much depends for influencing and for winning those men into activity, we are not likely to further the cause of service for the Empire by threats and by compulsory measures. Having seen what has taken place in the ranks of Labour, I and others hesitate as to what should be done; and I am thankful for the action taken by the present Government with a view to secur ing the very best result. It has been decided to place the case before the people for their opinion, and the Government have declared that by that opinion they will abide. This has given confidence, and will be appreciated by the great mass of the people who have shown definitely and deliberately that they believe in the referendum - a method of appeal which, I think, will meet with ready acceptance, even by those who differ as to the need for conscription. I am pledged to the uttermost to the thorough prosecution of this war, and to that end I am prepared to go beyond any individual or individuals, and any party or organization. The fact that all who can go from my household have gone to the war ought to be sufficient, if it be necessary, to convince the most sceptical that, so far a,r I am concerned, I can do no more. The only thing remaining is for me to go myself, and I am only tpo ready at any time to do that, though I do not wish to insult the authorities by presenting myself in such a capacity. I intend to appeal to the virility of the manhood of the country as I have done in the past; but until it is made absolutely clear that the exigencies of the case demand it - that there has been a failure on the part of the people to respond to the most earnest appeals - I am not prepared to take a step that will create hostility and engender strife, cause disorganization, and disrupt the very foundations of society. Conscription, in my opinion, will cause men to feel that there is no virtue attached to taking their part in the war, and dissipate all the glory that has been achieved by Australians. It is true that there is conscription in Great Britain, but there the conditions completely differ from those of a young country like this. Furthermore, we have to remember that before that step was taken at Home it was conclusively proved that all the efforts at enlistment in the great congested centres of population were utterly inadequate, and that only compulsion would prove equal to the .occasion. I may be told that the action taken by England ought to be a lesson to us; and it would be if our circumstances were similar; but the vastness of our territory and our position industrially, undermanned as we are in many avenues of labour, make that impossible. I shall have very much pleasure in voting that this question be referred to the people, whom I am at all times prepared to trust. 
If we are not prepared to trust the people we must have a very bad case. If I thought that my being an anticonscriptionist would lessen the energy and activity of the people in the prosecution of the war I should be sorry to give such a vote; but I do not anticipate any such result. If the referendum should be defeated, I believe there would follow a great campaign throughout the Commonwealth, and that, so far as we could yield our strength, it would be given freely. The question is to be left to the people; and I am positive, from the spirit shown in the past, that they will be equal to any emergency. The people are awake to their responsibility, and, in my opinion, the war will be prosecuted on lines that will not break in on the solidarity and organization of the labour classes, a solidarity which is being threatened so viciously at this hour. I believe we shall be able to maintain that solidarity and our independence, and yet show our willingness to participate in a war that has already covered us with glory and made the name of Australia memorable for all time to come. 
This is an occasion on which every member of the Federal Parliament owes it to the country, to his party, his electors, and to himself to briefly give his reasons for the vote he intends to give. I should not, even if my severe cold would allow, go into such heroics as were indulged in this evening by a very ardent and genuine supporter of conscription. I do not think that it "cuts any ice" to find honorable senators, especially members of the same party, abusing their political colleagues on a question like this, which it is admitted leaves room for two opinions. Surely we have arrived at a stage now, at ail events we who belong to the great Labour party, when we may be content to give each other credit for the sincerity of our convictions. We should not have to put up with the taunt that we are hypocrites because we do not believe quite as others do, whose enthusiasm has run away with their discretion and common-sense for the time being. In my innocence this evening I made a mild interjection when  Senator Lynch  was speaking. I stated what is- an undeniable fact, when I said that the honorable senator's countrymen do not believe in conscription; but I brought down on my devoted head the wrath of that gentleman, who expressed an opinion to the effect that those who do not believe as he does are hypocrites. I regret that  Senator Lynch  is not in his place when I am making these remarks. The honorable senator also said something about a shirker, but to what he referred I do. not know ; all I know is that during my thirteen years' experience as a member of this House I have never shirked any issue here or in. the country. Perhaps I ought to have been in the chamber when  Senator Lynch  made some reference to the Irish question, but I was outside on other business; and I am not going to apologize to him for my absence, because I think that I can show quite as good a record as he can for attendance here. I propose to vote for the submission of this, perhaps the greatest of questions, to the people. I have ever been a believer in trusting the people; and I quite agree with the words of rather a favorite novelist of mine, who said that it is safe at all times and in all countries to trust the great heart of the people to reject the unworthy and accept the true. The great heart of the people may be, I think, trusted on this as on other questions. But I am met with the objection that this is not a true referendum. This objection has been voiced by some of my friends here, and I have nothing to say against their voicing it; but my reply is that if it is not a true referendum, it is an alternative. The ground of my friends' objection is that the whole of the people are asked to vote on a question which affects only a small section of the people. There is a great deal in the argument; but what alternative is there? The question would have to go to the people sooner or later; and, in my honest opinion, the only alternative was the foisting of conscription on the country without any reference to them. There are men in this Parliament who have expressed the opinion that  Mr. Hughes,  immediately, he came back, should have introduced the compulsory system without submitting it to either Parliament or the people; and that was the only alternative to the referendum. The people could be consulted only by referendum or by an election, which might have taken a little longer, though not more than a few weeks or a couple of months; the main point is that the question must have gone to the people sooner or later. Although the proposed referendum may not be the democratic ideal, I would rather have it than have the people called upon to submit to a policy without any opportunity of expressing their opinions. The statements made by  Senator Millen  and the Leader of the Liberal party in another place have led me to believe that they would have preferred the Government to have introduced a measure for compulsory military service without the taking of a referendum. 
Quite so. If the Government had decided not to take a referendum they would probably have had to resign, and the succeeding Government might have been formed with a majority in favour of conscription, because from the speeches which they have delivered I judged that there are some members of the Labour party who would be prepared to vote straight out for conscription. Such a measure would very likely have been rejected by the Senate, and this would have meant the coming into power of another Government, and the bringing into force of compulsory military service, without the submission of the question to the people. I believe that even those members of the Labour party who, with considerable force, contend that this is not a democratic referendum would prefer it to the forcing of compulsory military service upon the people without consulting them upon the matter at all. 
The honorable senator is quite wrong- there. The honorable senator, as Minister for Defence in the last Government, made an offer of 20,000 men. 
That is so, but on the question of the more extended participation of Australia in the war the people were consulted. 
Their indorsement of the policy of participation in the war was confirmed by the people when they told them that they were prepared to do their best to continue the war to a successful issue. It is to me unthinkable that so violent a departure from the recognised policy of this country should be forced upon the people of Australia without asking them whether they approved of it or not. We stand to-day in danger of that departure, because if another Government were in power the leaders on the other side have told us that they favour the passing of a measure establishing compulsory military service without consultation with the people. Though my honorable friends opposite may consider that the right course to adopt, I do not on that account feel called upon to abuse them, because if there ever was a question before the country upon which every man should be permitted the free expression of his opinions without rendering himself liable to taunts and abuse, it is the question which we now have under consideration. Some very rash statements are being made on both sides. I add my meed of commendation to the great man who, in my view, is still the Leader of the Labour party. I grant to honorable members who disagree with  Mr. Hughes  the right to express their opinion, but I still hold that he is a big man, and one of the biggest that Australia has ever produced. I do not see eye to eye with him on this question of conscription, but that does not detract from my estimate of his greatness and appreciation of the splendid services he has rendered to Australia. It distresses me, as one who has been associated with the Labour movement for many years, to find other good men who have done good work and made big sacrifices in the interests of the movement so ready to point the finger of scorn at  Mr. Hughes  and to denounce him as a traitor. I am sorry that he should see the light as he does see it, because I think he is wrong, and I do not think that Australia will consent to conscription. I believe that we shall be able to do all that we can be expected to do without conscription. But if the Australian people decide at the referendum in favour of conscription, I shall bow to the expression of their will. 
I do. I have said that rash statements have been made by advocates of both sides of this question. Things have been said which had been better left unsaid in the interests of the great movement which has done so much for Australia in the past, and which, I am optimistic enough to believe, is destined to do even greater things in the future, in spite of the palpable split in the Labour party at the present time. When the people have given their verdict at the referendum, this split will soon be healed, and the great Labour movement will rise  Phoenix-like  from its ashes, and be stronger than ever. It will take more than such a breach as is now evident to prevent the growth of the Labour movement in Australia, though some men, who have been fighting during the whole of their lives for the movement, may bp. dropped out because of the breach. Only a few moments ago I read with considerable pain, that a great Labour organization, for which I have sincere respect, has suspended that grand old man of the Labour movement,  Mr. Spence,  because he does not happen to agree with the majority of the executive of that organization. I do not know whether it is intended that  Mr. Spence  shall be suspended temporarily, and that some wider tribunal shall be given an opportunity to consider his case, or that his services are to be finally dispensed with. Whatever the announcement may mean, let me say that, although the organization may dispense with the services of  Mr. Spence,  they cannot efface the magnificent record he has left for Labour in Australia. The feeling of members of the organization on this question is intense, and I am satisfied that they believe that they are doing right i:i the action they have taken.  Senator Lynch  feels intensely on the question also, and that, no doubt, explains why, when I made a perfectly innocent interjection during his speech, he poured out the vials of his wrath upon my head. 
I recognise the intensity of the honorable senator's convictions on this question, and, after all, his name is " Lynch," and he is Irish, and sometimes, when he gets a little warm, says things which, in his cooler moments, he may regret. I am going now to the other side, and I say that much as I admire that little bundle of nerves and energy, the Prime Minister, and the splendid work he has done, and though I still insist upon regarding him as the Leader of the Labour party in Australia, I assert that even he makes mistakes at times. Perhaps it is because he is carried away by his enthusiasm. 
Of course it i3. We are all liable to make mistakes.  Mr. Hughes,  in speaking last night, made some rather strong allegations against those opposed to him, and he did the same when speaking in Sydney. We have also heard from the Minister for Defence, both in this Chamber and outside, allusions to German money in this country. It is only so much nonsense to talk about German money in this country as having anything to do with the formation of public opinion on the question of conscription. No doubt there is any amount of German. money which would be used, if it were possible to so use it, to win away the allegiance of Australians from their country. But will  Mr. Hughes  or  Senator Pearce  contend for a moment that tha great body of objectors to conscription are being influenced by German money? Will they not candidly admit, on the contrary, that their objection to conscription arises from a sincere conviction that Australia has done well under voluntarism, and n desire to prevent the adoption of such a system as conscription in this young country? It would be a bad thing for Australia if we did not give to objectors to conscription the credit of being sincere in their convictions. What nonsense it is to talk about German  money and about foreign influence being at work. I am not speaking about a few Industrial Workers of the World, men who have no time for any party, and do not care much for any country. I believe they have said at 
Broken Hill that some men there are afraid to meet them in the dark chambers of the mines. When we remember that hundreds of men who have borne a great share of the work of the Labour movement in Australia are honestly opposed to conscription, it does not lay well in the mouths of our leaders to make these innuendoes against them. I believe that when they think calmly on this subject they will be rather sorry for the statements they have made. These innuendoes will not make converts for conscription, nor will some of the statements concerning the Prime Minister, made by those who are opposed to conscription, help the cause on the other side. Are we to suppose that there are no honest, patriotic, anti-conscriptionists in Australia? Surely a man may declare himself against conscription without being charged with a want of loyalty to his country. Surely there are patriots and honest men among the anticonscriptionists as well as .among the conscriptionists. I think there are, and when the vote is taken on the 28th October. I feel sure that the majority in Australia, will prove themselves anti-conscriptionists. Nevertheless, they will be patriotic. I believe that the majority will vote in the negative, not because they are lacking in patriotism, and are not as anxious as any conscriptionist is to see this war brought to a successful termination, but because they think conscription is not the right way to do it. If Australia turns down this question, I anticipate ' that the question will be asked, " What is Australia going to do?" We shall also hear that she has been disgraced because she has refused to succour the men who have gone to the front. Altogether too much nonsense has been talked on that score. One gentleman on the public platform said he dreaded to think how Australia would be regarded by the world if the people of this country did not vote for conscription. I think that probably that gentleman will be sorry he made that remark, because Australia will not be so disgraced. Only statements of that kind can bring any discredit on Australia. If the question is turned down the people will continue to fight this war successfully under voluntarism, and Australia will stand as high, if not higher, in the opinion of the world than she does to-day. Surely there is room for two opinions on this matter of conscription. Let every man give every other man credit for the sincerity and honesty of his convictions. At a time like this, when the country is being torn asunder by the greatest question that ever faced the people, we have a right to expect that the great organs influencing public opinion - the daily newspapers of this country - will tell the truth and put the question fairly before the public, instead of trying to mislead them. If ever there was a time in our history when our newspapers should endeavour to be newspapers in fact as well as in name, that time is now. But are they? Let honorable senators look at the headlines in the  Age,  referring to the debate in another place on this Bill. "Anticonscriptionists Routed," or something like that, appeared among the headlines, and then came the division in the House of Representatives, not on the question of conscription, but on the question of referring this issue to the people. I do not know whether it was done deliberately or not, but the effect of the  Age  headlines was to make the people who do not have time to read the whole of the report believe that the principle of conscription had been agreed to by a large majority in the House of Representatives, when, as a matter of fact, the large majority shown on the division-list was in relation merely to the question of submitting the question to the people. Those who had time to read the report found that honorable member after honorable member was opposed to the principle of conscription, but as a Democrat could not go against his convictions by opposing the Referendum Bill. 
I do not know; but I do know that honorable members who spoke made their attitude perfectly clear. During this great crisis in our history the public have a right to expect the newspapers to serve up to them pure and undiluted news. Day after day garbled reports of the discussion on this subject are being published, and it seems to me that a deliberate attempt is being made to persuade the readers of the newspapers to believe that, because there is a big majority in favour of submitting the question to the people, there is a big majority of honorable members in favour of conscription. Of course, those who represent the newspapers in this Parliament know that the contrary is the case. 
It would be something gained, and the hig newspapers :of this country would render a great service to the people, if they would furnish news in an impartial manner, because, after all, they can only mislead the people for a time. The public of Australia want to know what is being done,, and they want to know now, if never before, what every member of this Parliament thinks on this important subject. 
Well, I never expected anything from newspapers that are opposed to me in politics, because the proprietors run their businesses on party lines generally, and we have to take what we can get. But in relation to the matter now under discussion, I am speaking for the public of Australia, and I repeat that they are entitled to know what is being said in this Parliament. In justice to myself, and in justice to the people who sent me here, I could not allow this occasion to pass without giving my reason for voting as I intend to vote. I am going to support this Bill at every stage, because I believe in trusting the people, and unless something unforeseen at present looms on the horizon, I shall be found opposing conscription on the platform. I am quite prepared to take the consequences of my attitude. At all events, I will do what I think to be right in this great crisis. I am not going to be hypocritical, and I do not intend to say that any other man who disagrees with me is a hypocrite. Every man must be prepared to do what he believes to be right, and it is a pity that he cannot express his views without having- charges hurled at him by opponents on this momentous issue in the greatest crisis that has ever confronted the people of Australia. 
In the first place, I desire to extend my deepest sympathy to, and condolence with,  Senator Story  and his good wife and -family in the irreparable loss they have suffered by the death of their son, who recently paid the extreme penalty of his loyalty to King and country. It is incidents such as that which bring the stern realities of war home to the minds of every individual. I desire, also, to congratulate  Senator Millen  on the lucid exposition of the true bearing of the measure which we are now considering.  Senator Lynch,  too, made a very impassioned, clear, and logical speech, and his conclusions were difficult to escape from. I agree with the last  speaker  that a measure of such magnitude and of such moment, not only to the people of Australia, but to the Empire to which we are so justly proud to belong, ought to be debated without heat on either side. The question is too large for party recriminations or dissension at the present juncture. In the course of the debate the charge was made that I do not represent the people. I challenge the honorable senator who made that statement to find in the records of the Parliaments of which I have had the honour to be a member any vote of mine that has been cast against the interests of any section of the people of Australia. 
I have never tried to please anybody, and that is the best way to please everybody. This Bill does not in itself enact any legislation. It only asks the sanction of the Senate to obtain an expression of opinion from the people of Australia as to what action Parliament shall take in the present crisis. I candidly admit that I would have preferred that the Government had taken the direct course of placing conscription on the statute-book. 
I pledge myself to do it, and to stand behind the Government, as I have stood in connexion with every proposal relating to the war, through thick and thin, in order that we may prosecute the struggle to a successful and early conclusion. At the same time, I tell the Minister for Defence that the adoption of this policy of the referendum has given a greater impetus to anticonscription than anything else that could have been done. Prior to that policy being announced by the Government, it was not possible to hold an anticonscription meeting anywhere in Australia. 
It is possible today to hold an anti-conscription meeting anywhere in Australia. 
I will not say whether it is good or bad. 
I do not. If the honorable senator wishes to know anything of the suppression of speech let him ask  Senator Lynch  where- he went a few nights ago, and could not get a hearing. Let him also consult a man named Pearce, who last night was refused a hearing at Port Melbourne. 
I am not. The Government action gave the anticonscriptionists the greatest lever they have had. 
That is not the position. When the Prime Minister returned to these shores after his visit to the Old Country, he brought with him the conviction that some measure must be adopted in Australia to get fresh forces to support the men who had gone forth to fight the battle of Australia on the plains of France. He told the people that he could see the light, and whither the light led he would follow. The people of Australia were behind him, and, had a popular vote been taken on that question immediately, 70 per cent, of the electors would have voted for conscription. What has altered the position ? The people are being told that the position at the front is not so urgent as they were led to believe when the Prime Minister returned. I ask those honorable senators, who know the facts as clearly as I dp, to admit that the position is not one whit the less serious to-day that when  Mr. Hughes  landed from England. 
I do not care about the leading British statesmen. The honorable senator must know that not only is the position more intense, but the need for reinforcements is vital. We do not require the opinion of Lloyd George or anybody else when we have before us the long lisps of casualties which are reaching Australia every day. There is no need to refer to any book or any statesman across the border. If the honorable senator will open his eyes to the meaning of those casualty lists he will realize that the men who are fighting his battle on, the plains .of Flanders are in urgent need of help. Does the honorable senator think that the Government introduced this proposal simply for the pleasure of sending men to Europe to fight? If I thought they were treating this matter so lightly that they would ask men to risk their lives unnecessarily, I should turn down this proposal at once. 
The Ministry have told us in unmistakable terms that tlie voluntary system has failed and that the crucial moment has arrived when some other steps must be taken, so that other men may be sent to the front. And though the taking of a referendum may be a little longer way round, it is the shortest way home, because it is the only means of getting the compulsory system introduced. I repeat that I would have preferred that a Conscription Bill had been placed on the statute-book straight away. 
My only concern is to win the war at all costs as early as we possibly can. 
Yes. I am prepared to sacrifice anything of which I am possessed if that step is necessary to win this war. And in any capacity in which I can serve personally I will readily go to the front. I am forced to these conclusions, not by the views of statesmen outside this Parliament, but by the statements of the men who are leading the Government. They are in a better position to know the exigencies of the situation than any private member of Parliament can possibly be, and I believe that they are perfectly sincere in what they are asking the Commonwealth to do. Therefore, I am supporting the Government in any measure they may choose to bring forward to prosecute this war, and to bring the Hun to his bearings at the earliest possible moment. 
The situation is serious enough to make every man in .the Senate and every unit in the community give their best attention to the proposition which the Government propose to place before the people. Very many financial statements have been put forward during this debate, and honorable senators appear to be in the unfortunate position that they cannot get a definite statement on the real position. I, too, have been amongst the financiers, and I have some figures which, so far as I know, are accurate. The financial side of the question must be considered. Australia's effort cannot win this war, and the figures show that Australia has no need to worry on that score. But she has reason for worrying about something else. This is a young country, with a small population, and we have something to worry about besides the sending away of our manhood. I am not one of those who believe that all the fighting element has gone from the country yet. I believe that if every man was sent to the front the women would be in the fighting-line in the defence of the country. A week or so ago I tried to gel; from the Minister for Defence a statement of the actual cost of sending a soldier to the front, the best paid and best equipped mau in the fighting-line. My answer was that the honorable gentleman had not the information, but that the Treasurer was preparing a statement. I have read in the newspapers - and I think that the Prime Minister is the authority for the statement - that it costs this country 25s. a day to keep a man in the firing-line. We have now some 200,000 men at the front, and 72,000 in camp or on the water. Under the Prime Minister's scheme, we shall have 331,000 men to support at the end of March. Reducing the right honorable gentleman's estimate of cost by 5s., that means a prodigious expenditure. No one can say when the war will end. Should it end twelve months hence, we shall have our men on the pay-list for another twelve months at least. That will mean an expenditure of £241,000,000, in addition to which we have already spent £100,000,000. A debt of £341,000,000 is a big one for a population of 5,000,000 to shoulder. We aTe paying 4i per cent, for money borrowed from persons whodid not respond too well to the appeal, but if the Government paid only 4 per cent, on the sum that I have just mentioned, the country would have an interest debt of £13,600,000 a year, a sum more than half the amount of its re- venue. It has yet to be shown to me that those who are working so assiduously to enforce conscription on this country are prepared to shoulder their share of the burden. We have given them the opportunity. The Treasurer said to those who own the wealth of the country, " We need £50,000,000 to finance the war," to feed the boys in the trenches for whom these persons shed so many crocodile tears ! The response to the appeal was £23,000,000, or £27,000,000 less than he asked for. What does talking avail in the face of this fact? When the proposal to conscript the manhood of the country is put before the people they will say, " At the invitation of the last Government we sent away 20,000 men, who came forward within a few days. Then 50,000 were asked for,  sand  we sent them. Then the daily newspapers spoke of sending 100,000, never dreaming that such a force would be raised, and double that number was sent. A contract was made with those men." We have heard a great deal about regarding treaties as scraps of paper, and we must observe our contract. Some men were starved into enlisting. I know men who would not have dreamt of enlisting could they have got a job at home. It is not that they were not patriots, but they had responsibilities here. Australia said, " We will pay these men decently, and those whom they leave, their wives and children, shall not want while the country has a shilling." But what has happened? 
Australia's men are sacrificing their lives without compensation. Why, then, should those who remain here in safety ask 4£ per cent, for money that is needed to finance the war? Australia said to the adventurous spirits who jumped into the firing line, " We are making an agreement with you, which we expect to be kept to the letter." The men expect the country to do what we said she would do. My figures may be at fault, but I believe that I have under-estimated, rather than over-estimated, what the country will have to pay for this war, and it rests with those who are now agitating for the conscription of life to say what sacrifices they are prepared to make. I am not satisfied as to what they are prepared to do. So long as the printing presses of the country are permitted to circulate the views of its representatives, I shall have no complaint to make about the referendum, because I am satisfied, knowing the history of militarism and conscription, that the people will not vote in the affirmative. Australia has sent 300,000 men to a place 12,000 miles away from their own soil. Nothing like that has ever been attempted in history before. I have great regard for some of the institutions of Great Britain, and for the valour of the race from which we have sprung. But Great Britain, with a population of 45,000,000, never before" this war sent abroad anything like so large an army as that which Australia is now sending. The other night, at the Town Hall, the Prime Minister said that we have placed a White Australia on the highest minaret of our ideals, and he asked, "What happens?" He said, " Here are we, a white speck in a coloured ocean." That being so, Australia has certain responsibilities to consider before sending abroad the number for which the Government asks. She has to consider the position that she has maintained for the last twenty-five years. We cannot afford to let all our men leave the country, because we need some of them here. I believe that there are as many volunteering for military service abroad as  Ave  may reasonably be expected to send away, and as many as the people of Great Britain expect us to send. It is nonsense to say that we are leaving our men to die in the trenches unsupported. 
It is a strange thing that they have not been asked - that the request for more men has come to us only. Why has it come? Did someone ask that it might be sent? We are asked to send 32,500 men away this month, and 16,500 away every succeeding month for an indefinite period. We are told that this must continue until next March, but we have no guarantee that the war will end then. Thus the contribution of men is to continue indefinitely. No citizen of Australia would consent to leaving our soldiers to die in the trenches, but at some time or another Australia must cry " enough." It is not that there are not sufficient men in the Allied armies to win the war. The populations of the countries with which we are at war are these : Germany, 65,000,000 ; Austria, 52,000,000 ; Bulgaria, 4,250,000; and Turkey, 21,000,000; and their armies number.: Germany, 11,000,000 ; Austria, 6,000,000 ; Bulgaria, 1,000,000; and Turkey, 3,000,000. Thus a combined population of 142,500,000 supports an army of 21,000,000. The population of Great Britain is 46,000,000; that of France, 40,000,000; of Russia, 170,000,000; of Italy, 35,000,000 ; of Roumania, 7,500,000 ; of Servia, 4,500,000; and of Belgium, 7,500,000, the strength of their respective armies being: Great Britain 5,000,000; France, 5,000,000; Russia, 17,000,000; Italy, 3,000,000; Roumania, 500,000; Servia, 500,000 ; and Belgium, 1,000,000 ; or 32,000,000 altogether. These people are fighting on their own soil, yet we are expected to send 12,000 miles across the sea the few men that we can muster from our small population. 
Every man there is fighting on his own doorstep. A man who would not put up the fight of his life, and be found dead there before he would permit any violation of his home, would not be of much account. I do not care what opinion may be held by any person who is an opponent of mine on the question, I shall never charge him with being a traitor, or impugn the honesty of his motives, because I know the effect of such language, I know how intensely many people feel on a question such as this, I know how easy it would be to play on their feelings, and how easy it would be for  them  in turn to play on the feelings of the audiences they happened to be addressing. I am an Australian, and I have very high ideals as to Australia's future. Because of the class of people who have pioneered this continent we have advantages which no other country has had, and possibilities not possessed by any other country. I want to see them realized. When a country is at war under conditions such as I pictured a few moments "ago - where homes are violated - every man should be in the firing line, but Australia is in a different position from that of other countries engaged in this war. They can do things that we cannot do. We have a young country that needs development, and has higher ideals than any other land. It has done quite a lot towards the realization of them, but we cannot burden it with a debt such as I have mentioned, or send our men out of the country if we seek to further realize them. So far as I can gather, military experts say that no nation can put into the firing line on their own soil more than 10 per cent, of its population. By supplying 331,000 soldiers Australia is putting 6^ per cent, of her population into a firing line which is 12,000 miles from her own soil, and yet we are told that she has not done enough, and that we are not patriotic. According to experts, Great Britain cannot send anything like 10 per cent, of her population to fight in another country. 
Lincoln had to deal with a new country that was populated by the single men of Europe, who had to cross the ocean in order to get the crust that they could not get in the older world. There were ten men for every woman, so that it was no great trouble to put into the firing line a greater proportion than would be possible in normal times in any country. Feeling runs high on an occasion of this kind, but I resent the imputation that any man in Australia is desirous of becoming a slave. I believe that there is nothing crawling or living in the shape of humanity in this country but would fight to the death for it. It is because of that sentiment, and because of the breed of our people, that our troops have been able to put up so splendid a fight on the fields of battle. I have read that men of Kitchener's army had to be taken from the slums of London, and various other places where they were recruited, put into military camps and fed for six months before they were fit to fight. They were not lacking in spirit, but they were in stamina and physique. That cannot be said of Australians. It is easy to understand how our men have done so well on the battlefields of Gallipoli and France, so well, in fact, that every soldier is prepared to salute an Australian in recognition of the fine service they have rendered. It is because they are the progeny of the bolder spirits who left the older countries, where the conditions of living were so bad that they could not get a decent living, and, like  Senator Lynch,  came to a land where the opportunities were greater. Such men and women have raised a race of people equal to any on earth. Many honorable senators stand by the Bill because the referendum has been in the platform of the Labour party for quite a number of years. Their position is not sound. Let us examine the matter for a moment, and consider some of the objections that can be offered to this proposal. The people of Australia are to be asked whether they are prepared to give the Government the power to call up the men of this country and send them where they choose. Who are to have the votes? I shall have a vote, but I shall not be going to the front, as I am oyer the age. There are thousands of people in Australia who have not a million to one chance of going to the front, yet they will have a vote as to whether some one else shall go. A referendum affecting a matter on which every one has the same chance may be a fair proposition, but I do not believe in a referendum where some who will vote will not have a million to one chance of being affected by it. I am not concerned about the question going to the people, because I do not believe that the people will tolerate it for a moment. 
There may be something in that point; but certainly the man who has not sent a son, and has no son to send, has no right to vote to send the son of any other man. There are thousands of such people in this country, and that is why I have such a strong objection to the matter being sent to the people. At the same time, I believe it is safer in the hands of the people than anywhere else. I have no fear as to what the people are going to say, because, when the patriots among the ranks of those who have been politically opposed to me find out the bill they will be called upon to pay if the referendum is carried, there will be an end to their patriotism, and they will not give their vote to send any one to the other end of the world. The  Argus,  that great military authority which can tell us what is happening every day, and which is so enthusiastically in favour of conscription, "because our people need help on the other side of the world," contained the following statement on Saturday last: - 
Great Britain's army is of splendid material. At least 2,000,000 men could be thrown against the Germans at one point without touching the reserves at home. At the present rate of losses Great Britain could fight through next summer without new troops, but if the present means continue, Germany by then will be driven out of France. 
That statement should give comfort to the hearts of many people. Yet we have men hysterically in favour of sending 32,500 nien this month, and quite a number of thousands every succeeding month. I do not like to speak bitterly on occasions of this sort, because I know that the hearts of most men and women are stirred upon this question; but I suspect a conspiracy under the whole thing. Otherwise, what would have happened? We have already sent 300,000 men out of a population of 5,000,000, and men are still going. Possibly by the time the war is finished we shall have our full tenth, or 500,000, in the firing line. In the face of that fact it is absurd to tell us that we are not doing our share. Our men are putting up their fight all the time, and doing all that can be expected of them; but that cannot be said of the patriotic people who hold the cash-bags of this country. When we asked them for £50,000,000 we got £23,000,000. So far the  country  has carried out the agreement to pay the soldiers' wages, and separation and other allowances, but the Government have not shown the Senate how they are going to continue doing it. The responsibility rests on this Parliament of standing by the men to whom the pledges have been made. In older countries, it is possible to supplant the ordinary male worker or mechanic with woman or child labour, or perhaps with old men. Australia, being a young country, does not lend itself to that. Its industries are vast and, in many cases, primary and unfit for women. Capitalists have shown us in the past some places where work can be carried on by woman labour. Mildura is an instance. There, as in France, the women and children in years gone by did the work of gathering the harvest, but organized labour said that was not a job that women ought to do, and now men are doing it, and when women are employed they get the same rate of pay as men. This is a country of tremendous possibilities, and may be able to take on tremendous financial burdens, but only while the men are here to do the work. We have three or four outstanding activities from which we expect to get our money - the pastoral industry, which cannot be carried on by women or children, wheat farming, butter producing, and mining. These cannot possibly be carried on by women, nor has Australia any desire for it. Women cannot do the work in the meat industry, in which large financial interests are involved. Up to March next, under the Government proposal, we shall have sent away 330,000 men. If the war is not over by then the Government cannot possibly stop recruiting. If they go on sending 16,500 per month they will have recruited by the end of next year just on 500,000, including the men who have already gone. Australia cannot afford to lose so many men. There is, and ought to be, no need for it. Of course, if I were General Haig, I would want as much as I could get of the fine fighting material sent from Australia, but the British and their Allies can hold their own, man for man, with the enemy, and as they have three men for every two on the other side, there is no necessity to get more men from Australia. No one who knows anything of the history of the war would charge Australia with not doing its duty. If the British Government were told to-morrow that Australia was going to send no more men I do not believe they would .cavil at it, nor should they. When the war began, the British Government never dreamt they were going to get so many men from us, or men of such quality, but they got them, and we have done our part. I have no fear that Germany will win the war or overrun Australia. I am as confident the Allies will win the war as I am that the people of Australia will turn down the referendum. They will be wise to do so. The reasons I have given are ample, and if the people can get to know them there will be no doubt as to the result of the vote. The Labour party, which it has taken a quarter of a century to build up, consists of the important people of this country - the men who do the hard work and make its wealth. They are the most patriotic of our citizens, and value Australia because they enjoy a freedom which no other people have. Organization has brought that about. Our people were, perhaps, ignorant, but some of them desired something better, believing that in a new and rich country it should be possible for a young community to blaze a track that the rest of the world could follow. They set about organizing for it, and did it. They built up certain machinery that is irksome to some people to-day. I am speaking for the movement to-night, in the only way in which it can be heard, because it does not monopolize the press of Australia, and can speak only through its conferences. It has spoken there unmistakably on this question continuously and consistently during the last eighteen months. Possibly it has not been told everything. Of course, nothing should be made known that would be of value to the enemy, but my experience as an organizer of labour is that the greatest safeguard a man can possibly have if he is handling men is to have them absolutely in his confidence all the time. That has not been done. The Government have not used their opportunities to put before organized labour facts that they should have put before it, but I make allowances for them ; in fact, I have been continuously defending the Government outside for the things they have not done that they ought to have done, because I knew they had a lot of trouble. After a quarter of a century's work, it seems to me that something serious is going to happen to the Labour movement, from which it will take many years to recover. The only class who have proved their patriotism are the working people, the real patriots. Those who control the great newspapers, and almost every other avenue of articulation, who own the wealth and prate about their patriotism, when it comes to financing the fight do the same as that class have always done. They have always expected the workers to do the fighting and come back with wooden legs, and after the fight was won to pay the debt incurred. People who ought to be ashamed of themselves are doing the same thing in Australia now. Our people have done their share of the fighting. They have gone to the front unhesitatingly; but the people who prate about putting up the money to pay the piper have not done so when it has come to the pinch. These things are obvious. You may fool older or more ignorant people, but you cannot fool the people of Australia, because they  are at least decently educated, and can run up a column of figures or figure out a balance-sheet. By referring to the Commonwealth  Y earBook  they can readily ascertain what is the production of Australia from year to year, and where it goes, and they know that they are not getting what they ought to get out of it. They are expected to go 12,000 miles away from home to do the fighting, and on their return to pay the cost of the war. The element that has exploited the working classes of every country is out to do the same in Australia. The people who comprise it are not fools. They know how to play the game of getting all they can out of the people. I read not long ago of a member of the British nobility who, on returning from a visit to America, said to some of his friends, " America is the place in Which to invest your money. The people work like beavers. They create tremendous wealth, and you can easily invest your money there." The people who have done that in Australia have played a game with the Labour party. Knowing that our party had come into office after the outbreak of war, that it had the confidence of the people, and that it would retain it for years unless something were done to destroy it, they cast about for a means of  doing so.  They commenced by praising some of our people to such an extend that at last they lost their heads. They knew how to play the game, and they played it successfully. The only salvation for the Labour movement rests not with the people inside this Parliament, but with those who belong to our party outside. Our people outside know what is going on. We who are the privileged ones, and who occupy what are considered some of the great positions in this country, secured those positions only because we had done some of the work necessary to -create an organization capable of returning men to Parliament. And we ought to be here to speak for the people who put us here. We cannot claim that we alone know how to legislate for this country, and that those who belong to the 
Trades Hall and other Labour movements outside do not. There are many people in the Labour movement outside this Parliament who are just as well qualified as we are to legislate for, and to look after, the interests of this country. Our political opponents believed that it was impossible to cause a split in the Labour party until this thing came along. They had to make the best possible use of the opportunity, for they had no other hope of getting into power again. There now seems to be a chance of their coming into power. They have played their game so well that such a possibility is within striking distance. It therefore devolves upon the Labour party of this Parliament to join the Labour units outside in defeating our political opponents in the object they have in view. There are tremendous possibilities. It is now some two years ago since I said to some eminent men in our party, " The people of Australia can never be safe until the Constitution clearly and distinctly declares what shall be the franchise of Australia." The Constitution does not do so at the present time, and so long as it is possible to shift our party and to return another to power, there is always the possibility of gerrymandering in the Federal electorates. Gerrymandering is going on in connexion with the Victorian State electorates, so that the Progressive party can be kept out of power in the State Legislature for practically all time. I have warned my people of this danger, and we ought to be in a position to give some attention to it. Whatever comes of this apparent rupture in the Labour movement, our organizations outside will be more strongly cemented together as the result of it than perhaps many people imagine. There is one other point to which I should like to refer. The Leader of the Opposition to-day taunted some honorable senators with not having done as much as they ought to have done to help the recruiting movement. The position is a most peculiar one in which to place any man. I have never said one word, good, bad, or indifferent, to influence any man to go to the front. I have never taken the platform for that purpose, nor do I intend to do so. I have been asked to address recruiting meetings, but have declined, and when asked for my reasons have said, " I have never been any good at offering to hold another man's coat while he goes into the fight. 
I am not going to the front, and I have no sons who can go. That being so, I will not go on any platform to ask another man to enlist or to send his sons to the front." That is a fair position to take up. A man who takes up that attitude is not open to the gibe that because he will not go on a public platform to urge others to go where he is not going, and where he has no one to send, he is not helping his country as he should do. The man or woman who has a son who has gone to the front has a legitimate right to advise others to go; but I do not, and will not believe that I, who have not been to the front, who do not intend to go, and who have no sons there, have any right to ask any man or woman to send their boys. The daily papers of Australia convey to the people day after day news of all that is happening at the front. Our people outside are able to read of what is going on, and so can consider the position just as well as we can. I therefore am not going to take the responsibility of advising them in the circumstances I have just indicated. These, then, are the reasons why I have never been on a recruiting platform. During this campaign, I am giving my wholehearted support to the anti-conscription movement. I have already said that I do not think it is fair to ask the people to vote at a. referendum on a question of this character. I shall be out in the country, and shall be pretty busy working against the conscription of the manhood, of Australia. We have had experience even in Australia, with a Labour Government in power, of what the military authorities will do. Even under the most Democratic Government that has ever controlled the affairs of this country we have had experience of what may be done by the military. We members of Parliament know that there are a thousand and one things that may happen without the knowledge of the Minister for Defence. I have had brought under my notice cases of oppression and of actions on the part of the military authorities that are far removed from what I would call " a square deal." Generally speaking, military men, like the rest of us, are not bad fellows; but it is very dangerous to put unlimited power into the hands of a Government, and particularly into the hands of the military class. We have been told during this debate that the meaning of this proposal is as the Prime Minister has said, that conscription shall be . for the duration of the war, and shall relate only to military service. That sounds pretty good. It is all very well for the Prime Minister to say that it will apply only to single men; but he cannot truthfully make that statement. It conflicts with the statement of the Minister for Defence that, according to  Mr. Knibbs,  there are in Australia 1,520,000 single men .who can be called up for military service. We have not been told when that estimate was compiled by  Mr. Knibbs.  I am assuming that it was compiled as the result of the war census cards which went out twelve months ago. It must not be forgotten that since then thousands of these men have volunteered, that some are already at the front, and that others are in camp. Notwithstanding this, we are led to believe that although by March next we are to recruit 160,000 men, only single men will be called up. It has been said, and said truly, I believe, that before the end of the year the supply of single men under conscription would be exhausted, and that it would then be necessary to call up the married men. I wish to push that point a bit further by showing that if this referendum proposal be carried it will put into the hands of the Government all the powers with respect to service abroad that they now have under the Defence Act to call up men for home defence. The proposal applies not only to men between twenty-one and forty-four years of age, but to all men between eighteen and sixty years of age. If the Government are truthful, they should tell the people, when we are fighting this referendum question, that not only will the single men be called up, but that it will be open to the authorities to call up all men between eighteen and sixty years of age. They should say, as an honorable senator on the Opposition bench has admitted, that " every man from eighteen to sixty years of age will be liable to be called up if this Bill be carried." The honorable senator in question went further, I believe, and said that men up to eighty years of age should, if necessary, be called up. That was a fair and square statement to make. It enables the people to understand what they are being asked to do. If the war lasts another twelve months where shall we be? We shall have the authorities calling up 16,500 men a month until we have exhausted not only the supply of eligible men between twenty-one years and forty-four years of age, but all men from eighteen to sixty years of age, whether married or single. Is it not fair that that fact should be conveyed to the people ? The Government, however, despite the joke that they are trying to put up on the people by asserting that this power will be used only to call up single men between twenty-one and forty-four years of age, have not a dog's chance of carrying the referendum. People will not tolerate conscription. Like other honorable senators, I travel around the country a good deal, and in doing so meet quite a number of people who do not necessarily belong to the political party of which I am a member. I hear so many statements made about this proposal that I am satisfied that the Government might as well give it up at once, instead of wasting their time and their energy in trying to carry it. The question involved is so important and so serious that I sincerely hope that it will not give rise to any particularly bitter feeling. The people of Australia desire to know the facts, and, so far as I am capable, I shall lay the facts before them as clearly as possible, with no object or desire other than to do what is best and absolutely necessary for the good of the country. I have been very interested in this debate, and I think that the people of Australia expect their representatives here to definitely take one side or other of the fence in this fight. I have no doubt that every honorable senator earnestly believes what he has been advocating, and will do his best ourside  to translate that belief into action. That, at any rate, is what I intend to do ; and, as a result, I believe that on the 28th October the vote will be in accord with the principles I advocate. This referendum is not quite the same as an ordinary election. There will be no candidates, and, consequently, no authority to appoint scrutineers ; but I hope that, before Parliament adjourns, the Government will make the matter sure by bringing down regulations that will remove any doubts we may have on this score. 
We shall try to do that so that the people may rest satisfied that the fight, whatever may be the result, is a fair one. 
A fair vote, a fair ballot, and a fair count - a fair field and no favour. 1 feel sure that every honorable member will support that suggestion, and that the Government will take such steps as are necessary; but, if not, we shall have to attend to the matter. God knows what will happen after the referendum has been taken, whichever way it may go. In the illuminating words from the Prime Minister, that " is on the knees of the gods," and there we may let it rest. 
I intend to be brief, if it is only out of consideration for you,  Mr. President,  in your dreary vigil, for the  Hansard  staff, in their weary laborious work, and for the pressmen and the attendants in this building. For my part, I see no necessity for this all night's sitting; and, to me, this appears a cranky way of doing business. It is idle to expect honorable senators to be as clearheaded and alert at this hour in the morning as they ought to be, and as they would be if they were considering this great national issue during ordinary working hours. It is by no means fair to impose this task on us, seeing that there are other days and other hours in which we could have dealt with the business with better effect. Perhaps the easiest lot of all has been that of honorable senators, who suffer merely from want of rest, with the prospect of a long journey to our homes, if we are lucky enough to  set  away this week. I should not have spoken under the circumstances, but for the fact that this mav possibly be my last opportunity before the referendum to voice my opinions; and the issue before us is so important that honorable senators feel it to be their duty to tell the people, whose servants they are, on which side they stand. This is a great crisis ; and I regret most profoundly that a Government designated Labour should, on this issue, throw the onus, and likewise the odium, on the great party to which I belong. This proposal should not have been introduced in the way in which it has been. After all, it is a subterfuge - the thin edge of the wedge for the introduction of something which the Government were not game enough to bring directly before this Chamber, and which neither the Labour party, nor the majority of the Chamber, would accept. I am surprised, under the circumstances, that there is a majority of this party prepared to submit this proposition to the people. . An overwhelming majority of the party have declared that the principle of conscription is absolutely wrong - damnably wrong in nature and damnable in effect- and what right have they to ask the people to take an opportunity to do that which they themselves consider wrong and iniquitous ? 
Yes, they agreed by a very narrow majority to submit the referendum to the people. I never thought to live to see the day - and I have been associated with the movement ever since I served my apprenticeship as compositor - when a Labour Government would take the risk of crashing the party on to the rocks as they are doing by means of this measure. It must be intolerable and vexatious to those who have devoted money and effort to the interests of the party, and who have placed us here, to find their representatives, after the movement has captured the National Parliament in both Houses, commencing to tear down the edifice which it has taken so many years to build. Old warriors in the movement who have erected fine monuments to themselves, have, in one dreadful and fatal hour placed bombs under those monuments ; and their names will be known, not as before, but ignominiously known, as those of men who have led the party into the present position. Surely those who placed the party in power should have received more consideration - should not have had their hearts torn in such a crisis. It is a crisis which has drenched Australia in tears just as the blood of our heroes drenched Gallipoli. We should not have asked the people to do the impossible, and to do it by such coercive means. The Prime Minister went home to the Old Country on a certain mission, which is known to members of the party, but which cannot be divulged ; and it would appear that while away he imbibed Germanic germs of Prussianism which sent him back a different man. Honorable senators have heard quoted the Prime Minister's words of last June, when he declared that he would never be a party to sending a man out of Australia to fight against his own free will. The right honorable gentleman has declared that he " sees the light," but he will find on the 28th October that it is not a beacon light, but a veritable will-o'-the-wisp which has led him and his party into the political bog. We never thought, when the Prime Minister was doing good work in the early stages of his visit, and when he made the very fabric of Great Britain tremble at his words, that he would come back a changed man, and ask us in effect to undo our efforts of the past. I am surprised to have heard from members of this Chamber, and particularly from the Opposition in both Houses, from the press, and even, I am sorry to say from some members of our own party that, in their opinion, the referendum is a democratic proceeding. It is true that it is supposed to be a democratic means of getting an expression of opinion; but it is being used to attain an undemocratic end. This instrument of Democracy was never intended to be used in such a way and in such circumstances. Both conscription and the taking of a referendum on the question of conscription are essentially undemocratic. Can it be democratic to take men from the bosoms of their families? Can it be democratic to send a man away to fight who has no stomach to fight?  Senator Lynch,  in his lynch-law speech this morning, spoke of men who are not standing at their posts but leaning against them. I would sooner do without such men than have them in my way in a trench, or in any part of the firing line. If soldiers are not sufficiently animated by the spirit of patriotism to voluntarily offer their services in the defence of their country, they are not worth having. Our  volunteer Australian soldiers have written the name of Australia in letters of blood across the history of the war at Gallipoli and in France. Conscripts would never have exhibited the spirit and daring ' with which they turned out of the boats and stormed the cliffs at Gaba Tepe.  Senator Lynch,  in this connexion, coupled the name of Eureka with conscription. The men who defended the Stockade at Eureka were amongst the most sterling Democrats Australia has ever seen. I regard the honor able senator's attempt to justify conscription -by a specious argument upon the action of the men at Eureka as tantamount to blasphemy. The men of Eureka, because they loved liberty and hated oppression, took up the gun against constituted authority, and struck the first blow for the constitutional liberty which we enjoy to-day, and which a Labour Government now dares to attempt to destroy. They will find that throughout Australia the spirit of Eureka still lives, and the Government and those associated with them in this dastardly thing will be discredited now and for ever more. 
Perhaps  Senator Lynch  has also read that the Germans, ultra conscriptionists as they are, cannot send their men out of their own country unless they volunteer to go. 
During the Boxer rising the German force that went to China was a volunteer and not a conscript force. The French and Italians who landed at Salonika were men who had been conscripted, but who had to be asked to volunteer to j;o before they were taken to the Balkans to join other allied forces there. Yet it is proposed that we in Australia should do that which even conscript nations will not do. Why should we do it? 
I hope that they will soon be in Berlin with the other allied troops around them. This time last year there were dark days and dismal faces throughout this and other lands. What is the position to-day? Germany and Austria are being squeezed, and we are gradually, but surely, closing the jaws of the vice upon them. We were doing good business before this proposal was made. There had been a splendid response to the demand for volunteers, and the very cream of the manhood of Australia were enlisting. This cry for. conscription, due to a conspiracy of the press and politicians, has damped the enthusiasm of our people, and voluntary recruiting has slackened off. The private profiteer, the food exploiter, and the rent racker have all done their bit to the detriment of recruiting. Only in to-day's newspapers honorable senators may see that the Prime Minister has considered it necessary to take some action to curb the rapacity of landlords in Australia. These patriots cheer our troops as they pass along the street, while making it hard and ever harder for the mothers, wives, and little kiddies of the good men and true who are away in the fighting line. Men, knowing that this kind of thing is going on, and is permitted to continue, stop and think when they are told that their country needs them. We are told that conscription is democratic, and are invited to admire the beautiful picture of the rich man and the poor man fighting side by side for their country. Many rich men will be in a position to avoid conscription if they can find a doctor base enough to assist them in their desire. The poor man cannot do anything of  the  kind. There are noble and honorable men in the medical profession, and some have already given up their lives in this war, but we know also that there are black sheep in every fold. There are honorable contractors and commissariat officers, but from time to time we have reports of cases in our Courts of men being punished for robbing their country in the time of its need. We are told that conscription is democratic, that under it rich and poor will be fighting side by side in the trenches, and that it insures equality of sacrifice. Let us consider this.. The poor working-class soldier is shot in action. What is there for his family. A pension, certainly, and the most generous soldier's pension in the world, yet, when compared with his wages, dependence on the pension must involve a different mode of living for the family the soldier has left behind. Take now the case of the rich man killed in the trenches.  His  insurances, banking account, and estate stand to his family. They may still live in luxury, whilst the family of the worker killed in action must live in comparative penury. There is nothing democratic, and there is no equality of sacrifice, in such a condition of affairs. Let me remind honorable senators that Australia has done wonderful work in the number of troopsshe has sent to the front. As it may not be generally known, let me state that more men have been sent over a longer distance from Australia than Great Britain ever at any time sent to any part of the world. I doubt whether the achievements of Australia in this direction have been approached by any other country in the world. Military experts say that 10 per cent, is the proportion of a population that can be safely sent out of a country, and, even then, in the case of men fighting on or near the territory of that  country. We have sent 6£ per cent. away. Great Britain and her Allies,  with  the single exception of Australia, have sufficient men in their own lands to defend them. Under this proposal of the Government, if carried into effect, Australia will be left practically defenceless. It is like pouring claret into -a vat with the plug out. We are going to drain this country of her manhood and leave her defenceless and open to the invader, and that peril is well known to members of this Parliament. Conscription is a question upon which a referendum should not be taken; because human life is sacred, and the question involved is one of conscience. .There are many thousands of people in Australia who, because of their religious belief, cannot, and will not, go to war. Amongst these are the Quakers. Under this principle of militarism, thirty Quakers in England, who objected to be thrown into the firing line, were sentenced .to death, and it was not until an agitation was got up for their reprieve that their sentence was altered to one of ten years' penal servitude. 
In the Englishpress. 
Seventeen other men, who were conscientious objectors, were taken across by a press gang and placed in the hottest part of the firing line in France. We have Quakers in Australia, and a member of the Government recently received a deputation from Christadelphians, who told him that it  was against their faith to fight, and that they would sooner be placed against a gaol wall and be shot than go to the front. I saw a letter in the  Evening Echo,  of Ballarat, a few days ago concerning a member of the Church of Christ in England who was in prison because he was a conscientious objector, and because his faith forbade him to do what was desired of him. 
I remind honorable senators of the recent military raids on the Trades Hall and the office of the  Labour Gall.  The military went in  a  motor car, and I am surprised that it was not an armoured car, to secure  Mr. Holloway,  the Assistant Secretary of the Trades Hall. They went to his home in the dead of night and conscripted him. They broke their way in, and I suppose that if it had been necessary a battery of artillery would have been called upon for the purpose. He had to hand over a few harmless pamphlets. I may say that it is probable that those pamphlets secured a wider publicity as a result of the raid than they would otherwise have had. So much attention was directed to them that those which were issued have been handed round from house to house so many times that it is now scarcely possible to read them. I wish, even at this late hour, the Government would withdraw the proclamation until they ascertain what the result of the referendum will be. The incident of the Eureka Stockade was mentioned by  Senator Lynch  and other honorable senators, and I point out that if this Bill is carried the events preceding Eureka will be repeated, for there will be a hunting for the men as vigorous as was the hunt for diggers. 
That may not be a very picturesque term, but it is expressive, and the inference is that he regards the workers as vermin, much iu the same way as  Sir Frank  Madden, who referred to the workers as "greybacks." Possibly he is an authority on that class of vermin, and knows what he is talking about. The possibilities of this campaign are many, but for my part I am not going to say or do anything that will offend any man. I feel confident that those who are supporting this proposal will get the shock of their lives on 28th October. Honorable gentlemen sitting in opposition here know quite well that, whilst in this Parliament they stand with the Government for conscription, their own forces are divided on this question throughout the length and breadth of Australia. Earnest thought and attention are being given to this subject by the people, and I am sure they will do the correct thing when the opportunity arises. There will be many recriminations during the campaign, and possibly much abuse and much criticism of a damning and damaging nature concerning the Prime Minister. But I am out to fight something bigger than the Prime Minister and those associated with him. I am out for the principles of Labour against conscription, because that, in my opinion, will open the way to cheap labour. Go down to Hugh V. McKay's works, and you will find a woman at a lathe there, at 24s. per week, doing work which up till recently was done by a man getting £3 4s. per week, the union standard wage for that class of work. I believe that in some other foundries also similar work is being done by women. I might also remind honorable senators that  Mr. Staughton,  at the meeting of shareholders of the Austral Hat Mills Company recently, pleaded for the introduction of Chinese and Japanese labour. We know how clerks are being told already to get out of their positions to go to the front, and that women will take their places. In a part of your own State,  Mr. President,  there is a band of 800 women on a recruiting committee. I give them every credit for the work they are doing in the interests of their country by endeavouring to show the young men their duty. But that is only part of the story. They are pledged that, whenever a man goes from a factory, if they are wanted, they will step into his place, so they are endeavouring tr&gt; get a week's training in other factories in advance. We have also read that women are boundary riding on  Mr. Faulkner's  estate on the other side of the Murray, and recently there was an agitation in Queensland for the return of the kanaka. 
Yes, the way is being opened for the introduction of cheap coloured labour into this country when its manhood has been sent away from it. Such a position would be intolerable, and, as prevention is better than cure, let us stop it at once by recording a majority against the Bill in the Senate. For my part I will not spare myself. 
I would be a party to both if I had a majority of our members with me, but, unfortunately, some sort of idea has got into the minds of honorable senators that the people should have the right to decide this question. I give them every credit for that opinion, but I take the view that the people should not be  asked to do that. I can only hope that even now, after the reasoned and seasoned speeches of so many members of this Chamber, those who have taken a stand in favour of the Bill going to the country will reconsider their decision, because it will have the effect of foisting the iniquitous system of conscription upon this Commonwealth. 
It is scarcely possible to say anything new on this question after all the discussion that has taken place during the last two weeks. Before going further, I want to remind  Senator McKissock  that, notwithstanding the picture he painted of the horrors that would befall this country under compulsory military service, the very same horrors would have befallen it under the voluntary system, .because, if all the eligible and fit men had departed, the way would have been open then, as he says it will be under conscription,  for black labour. But I am not afraid of the introduction of black labour. I cannot be afraid whilst every man and every woman in this community has the right to go to the ballot-box and record a vote. Not a single individual in the Commonwealth would ever see the inside of this Chamber, as a politician, if he ventured to go on the platform to advocate the introduction of cheap black labour, so we may put that aspect of the question at the back of our minds at once. I want to approach this subject without any feeling and without exciting myself, and, I hope, without hurting any one who may disagree with me. I regret to know that that attitude has already been departed from, not so much in this Chamber as in another place, and not so much in Parliament as outside. Some opponents of the measure are already indulging in language that is neither becoming nor proper. I deplore exceedingly the fact that the Prime Minister has been subjected to so much abuse.  Mr. Hughes  recently returned from the other side of the world-, and, having been admitted into the counsels, not only of Great Britain, but of the allied nations, he must know more of the perils of this war to the Empire than any other man in the Southern Hemisphere. To me it is unthinkable that a gentleman whom we all know so well, and who, all his life, has been in the forefront of the Labour movement, should, for some ulterior motive, cast aside the views he has held for so many years, and go into the opposite political camp. I believe nothing of the kind could occur. I regard the Prime Minister as one of the most earnest men in this Commonwealth, and I am convinced that from his very soul he is satisfied that he is doing what is right in the interests of Australia and the Labour movement. If honorable senators have any intention of denouncing the Prime Minister on the platform, I hope they will remember his splendid record, and the fact also that lie had no reason to return to Australia and face the great task he has undertaken. Every avenue of distinction and usefulness in the old land was open to him; he could select what career he chose. But, in his own words, he returned to fight out this battle in the country that had made him what he is. Therefore, when we are on the platform, whether we believe in compulsory service or not, we should remember the earnestness of our leader, the position in which he finds himself, and the distinguished service he has rendered to Australia in the past. If we do that, we shall be able to eliminate the Prime Minister from the discussion when we are before the people. We must not forget, too, that this Bill is the product of the Government. Let us avoid denunciation of the Government, and particularly of the Prime Minister, for, God knows, his path is thorny enough at the present time, and if he cannot get fair play from his friends, he will be in a sad plight. Whilst I have every respect for the opinion of those gentlemen who differ from me, and who believe that this issue ought not to be placed before the people, I am firmly convinced that no question ever submitted to the people, or to any Australian Parliament, should more properly have gone to the people than the momentous issue which we are now discussing. As a member of the Labour party I advocated the referendum on every platform from which I spoke when seeking the suffrages of the people. What would be my position if now I stood here and told the people that this question should not be submitted to them. I should be belittling myself in the eyes of those who elected me, and doing something damaging to my reputation and the party to which I belong. This question is being properly submitted to the people. The Government have no right to impose compulsory service on them unless the electors themselves are willing, particularly in a democratic community. Moreover, in placing this issue before the people for settlement, we are setting an example to the whole world. Some senators have found fault with the methods adopted to secure volunteers, and have said that, had not this or that thing happened, we should have obtained abundant recruits. Speaking only for South Australia, I am in a position to say that everything man could do was done in that State in the interest of voluntarism. I ana several colleagues and members of the Liberal party spent weeks in travelling through the country, and addressing recruiting meetings in the City. I am sure that we did all that was possible to point out to those men who were eligible for service that it was their duty to go, and in simple and clear language we pointed out that, unless they voluntarily discharged their responsibility in this war, conscription must inevitably come. I remember that, throughout the last recruiting tour, T was met everywhere with this question, " What is the use of coming here and wasting time ? Why not introduce conscription, and have done with your worries? I will not volunteer until so and so goes, and he will not go' until he is compelled to do so. When he goes I shall go." Thus we were invited by those who would he the first to be conscripted to introduce compulsory service. Therefore, my conscience is perfectly clear. Wherever I had the opportunity I told the people of South Australia that I would do my best to see that this war was brought to a successful issue, and that those who were eligible to go must go. Every fit man in the community within military age, every man who claims the protection of the laws of the country and claims as a right whatever liberties and freedom he may enjoy in our Democratic Australia, has a duty to defend those liberties and freedom, if necessary with his life. I wish to say a word in regard to the industrial organizations which are opposed to conscription. I have no intention of flouting those bodies or the men who conduct them; I have no quarrel with them. In some of the States they have done things which they ought not to have done, for if there are in this community any men who should not be shackled they are members of this Parliament. I think a mistake has been made, and that it would have been better if certain action had not  been taken with regard to members of the Federal Legislature. 
I mention no State in particular. I think it was a pity that these drastic steps have been taken; but, in the circumstances, we must make the best of a bad situation. In my opinion, the war crisis in Australia did not happen to-day, or when the Prime Minister announced his policy. It happened in Australia on . the 4th August two years ago, when war was declared by Germany. That was the commencement of our trouble. Whilst at that time I did not think compulsory service was necessary, I have no doubt whatever to-day that had compulsion been introduced at that time much money would have been saved to the Commonwealth, the people would have been spared much heartburning, and the community would have escaped a great deal of worry. Whilst the volunteer system has given remarkable results, it has been most unfair and inequitable in its application. It invariably happened that when one boy of a family of three or four went to the front, he was the hero of his relatives for an hour, but within a few weeks every other lad in the family followed him. They said, " Our brother has gone ; we shall not be cowards." In the very next house there might be just as many eligible sons in a family, and not one of them volunteered. Will honorable senators seek to justify a system which gives such results? Instances of this kind would have been impossible under compulsory service, for every man would have been called up in his turn, and there would have been no inequality of sacrifice. I wish to show now why Australia has a greater interest in this war than has any of the other dominions. What we have done has been compared with what has been done by Canada, South Africa, and New Zealand, but it is no concern of ours what the other parts of the Empire are doing. Our duty is to play our part, and take our full share of the responsibilities of the war. Indeed, we should do more than other parts of the Empire, because our risk is greater than theirs. We, like the statesmen of Great Britain, were gulled by Germany. Indeed, we are more blameworthy for our blindness to her intentions than they are. For many years she was seeking new territory in which she could place her surplus population under conditions resembling those to which they had been accustomed. She was looking for a country in which a great deal of pioneering work had been done, but in which there were not many people, although plenty of room for expansion. It had to be, moreover, a country easy to seize, and not difficult to hold. They looked first at Canada, but its proximity to the United States protected it, because of the Monroe doctrine. They turned their eyes upon India, where they spent much money to ascertain whether the country would suit them, but determined that, as it was a tropical country, with a population of nearly 300,000,000 natives, it would not do. South Africa again is not quite what they wanted, its soil in many parts not being too good, while the native population is large. But in Australia they had just the place that they wanted, 3,000,000 square miles of country, rich beyond the dreams of avarice, poorly defended, but a white man's country in every sense of the word. 
By reading the history of what has occurred since the war, and the exposures that the war has brought about. Germany commenced by encircling this continent with a girdle of steel. She created a naval base on the east cost of Africa at the point nearest to Western Australia. Other naval bases were established in NewGuinea, New Britain, and elsewhere in the south seas. Every German possession in the Southern Pacific became the centre of activity. At Rabaul, where there is a beautiful harbor with practically no trade, they spent immense sums on wharfage arrangements. 
The war has been a blessing to Australia. Had it not occurred, Germany would have seized the country before we had awakened to our peril. The naval bases were established to enable them to have warships ready to swoop upon our coasts. Furthermore, wireless stations were established, some of them the most powerful in the Southern Hemisphere. Wireless plants were installed throughout the south seas and in the Southern Pacific. 
Yes. Remembering what we owe to the British Navy, it is impossible for us to do too much in this war. We have, of course, done remarkably well, and every part of the British Empire and the Allies of Britain are as proud of what we have done as our enemies are annoyed by it. While Germany was occupied outside Australia, in the preparations I have described, she was not idle inside. She had her spies everywhere, and as they did not work for nothing, much German money found its way here. I make no charges against any person in Australia, but I am sure that German money was spent freely in obtaining for the Kaiser information regarding everything that took place here, and knowledge of the possibilities of the country. Every one remembers the Agadir incident, a couple of years before the outbreak of the war, when a German fleet took certain liberties which nearly precipitated a conflict before Germany considered herself ready to begin. A British fleet was sent to look for the German fleet in Chinese waters, but for many months it disappeared as completely as if it had sunk to the bottom of the ocean. Finally it was discovered hiding in a harbor in German territory. That fleet, or the greater part of it, is now at the bottom of the ocean, and will remain there. The bulk of it was lost at the battle of the Falkland Islands. When I was at Port Darwin recently I was told that the  Emden  was on one occasion within sixty miles of that port, and shipping men informed me that the officers of that enemy vessel had boasted that they could have sunk every ship sailing on the southern coast of Australia for several weeks but for one thing - it would have attracted the attention of our little Australian fleet and brought disaster upon them. The hiding places of these German warships have not yet been discovered, I understand. German officers have boasted that their vessels were quite close to the Australian coast for many weeks, and could have done incalculable damage but for the fact that they did not know where the Australian fleet was. A visit from this small German fleet would have brought ruin to our cities. For the protection  we  receive here we are indebted to our own fleet, but we are mostly indebted to the British fleet for the fact that the iron heel of the invader has never yet trod on our shores. We have done much on land, but what we have done has not more than paid the debt we owe to Great Britain for the splendid position that Australia occupies to-day. Honorable senators have painted dismal pictures of what might happen should compulsory military service overseas be carried by the people at the referendum, but they have said very little of what would be likely to happen in the trenches if our boys should have to be informed of the defeat of the Government's proposal. Our share here is the lighter. They are bearing the heavier share, and they will fight with greater vigour and put a stronger push behind the bayonet when they learn that the people of Australia are standing; behind them and  fulfilling  the promise made by  Mr. Fisher  that Australia is behind them to the last man and the last shilling. An affirmative decision will also help us with our Allies. Some say, " Shorten the front." Yes, and compel someone else to go into the trenches ! Let us have someone else to fight for us ! Let us hire the mercenaries referred to by  Senator Lynch!  Let us hire blacks, men we will not have in Australia, to do the fighting for us ! Let us get Russians to fight for us at 2d. per day. Is that what we want? No. Australia will continue the fight. As a free and independent Australian I would scorn a proposal to hire mercenaries to fight for us, because it would naturally be said that we are too cowardly to do it ourselves. Some senators say, " Get Russians or Indians to fight for us." Indians and Russians alike have responded nobly to the call of their Empires. They are each fighting their own battles, and it is our clear duty to fight our own battle until the war is finished. And then Australians can hold up their heads among the nations and say, " Young as we are, with a small population, and unprepared as we were for war, we have set an example to the world." I ask those gentlemen who have complained about the failure of the voluntary system whether they are not partly responsible for that failure. Day after day we have heard the 4J-per-cent. patriot condemned, whereas in my opinion every man who put even £10 into one of our war loans has done something to help his country and should not be sneered at. When our Government was in need of money and had to borrow it, it had to pay for that money just the same as any other country that borrows has to pay for what it raises on the loan market. I would no more sneer at a man who put his money into our war loans than I would at the man who put a rifle on his shoulder and went to the fight. Each is doing his share. No ohe has made the claim that there will be equality of sacrifice - it is impossible - but what the Prime Minister has said on the point has been very carefully distorted. What the Prime Minister did say was that there would be an equality of sacrifice as near as it was humanly possible to get it. And it will be done. The Government have promised to bring down proposals for financing the war which, they say, will satisfy us. The proposals will need to be very drastic to satisfy me, but I accept the word . of the Government in this matter. If I could not accept the word of the Minister for Defence I would not be on this side of the Chamber for five minutes. I could not follow a Government whose word I could not trust. I believe Ministers when they say that they will discharge to the very letter the promise which they have made to Parliament and to the country. I care not how drastic their financial proposals may be, or how much of the wealth of the country they intend to take, or how they will seek to do it, nor shall I grumble if I am among those who are called upon to pay. I should not escape. I cannot go to the war - but I can pay my share towards its cost without grumbling or complaint. At the same time I intend, as far as lies in my power, to see that every man who has wealth and cannot go to the war contributes his fair share towards the cost of paying those who do go to the war, and towards the maintenance of the families of our heroes who will never come back. I had intended to make some reference to remarks which have been made in another place and outside, but it may be just as well to let these things be forgotten. I hope that the campaign will start clean, and that there will be no recrimination or attempt to incite the passions of the people. 
 Mr .  Hughes has not done so. I have read his speech. 
I have with me a report of some remarks made in Melbourne a few nights ago, and, if I had my way, the author of one statement would not be at large. 
The report to which I refer reads as follows: - 

 Mr. Hughes ho declared to be a traitor and renegade to the Labour movement.If the Prime Minister got his own way Australians would be placed in a worse position than Irishmen during the Irish rebellion.  Mr. Hughes  had been bribed during his recent visit to England to shackle conscription upon Australia, so that it would be a lever to foist a similar measure upon Canada . and South Africa. 
An honorable senator asks, " Who said that?" It was  Dr. Maloney,  M.H.R. The report proceeds: - 

 Mr. Prendergast, M.L.A., declared that  Senator Pearce  had made a cowardly insinuation that the Trades Hall was in the pay of Germans. Such a lie was unpardonable.  Senator Pearce  would never again be tolerated in the Labour movement until he had apologized. 
I would not have referred to these words but for the interjection of the honorable senator.  Mr. Hughes  has never uttered such a calumny against political opponents, certainly not since this campaign started, and he will never be guilty of using such language so long as the campaign lasts. 

 Sitting suspended from 7 to 7.15 a.m. 

It is not necessary for a Labour senator to say anything to justify his action in voting for a referendum. The Labour party claim that they represent the people, and are always willing to trust them, and rely on the people's goodwill, and when a Referendum Bill comes before Parliament every member of the Labour party could with perfect safety give a silent vote for it. I can quite understand, however, that a member of the Labour party who rises to oppose a referendum needs considerable time to justify to his constituents something which I am absolutely sure he could never entirely justify to himself. I am not in that position. I am going to support the referendum. A large part of the debate has been occupied in discussing, not whether the question should be submitted to the people, but the merits or demerits of conscription. I intended to refer to the action of outside organizations in dictating to members of Parliament the attitude they should adopt on questions which are really not Labour party questions at all; but, as I want to be brief, I shall leave that matter severely alone. I am satisfied that the Labour organizations are opposing, not the proposal which is to be submitted to the people, but conscription as it is ordinarily understood, that is, a conscription such as that of Germany. Many trade unionists, especially those who are not well informed, still fear that if the people vote "Yes" the military authorities will have power to call up the whole of the manhood of Australia, and set it to work at its various trades at whatever pay they like to fix. I suppose I can claim to be the oldest trade unionist in the Chamber, for it is just about forty years since I first became one, and I know the feelingof the trade unionists. It is only the misrepresentations of some members of this Parliament that are. misleading the outside organizations as to what the referendum means, and that is what is causing the opposition to it to-day. When the trade unionists understand that the proposal merely asks that the Government be given power to send abroad men in Australia who will not go unless they are sent, and who would be liable for home defence under the present Act in the case of an invasion, I am sure they will agree to it by a large majority. The members of the trade unions of Australia are just as loyal and patriotic as any other class of the community. They have proved it by the number who have voluntarily enlisted, and when they understand the real position, they will be found marching behind the Prime Minister in order to protect Australia from the dangers which at present threaten it. Honorable senators have attempted to minimize the danger, and " pooh-poohed " the possibility of anything occurring to Australia if it does not do its share. Certain speeches inside and outside Parliament have, so far, to a large extent misled a number of our trade unionists, but when from every platform the meaning of the proposal is explained to them throughout the States, they will vote "Yes," and express by so doing their complete confidence in the Government. The more cue Leader of the Government, who knows the conditions, emphatically and solemnly says it is  necessary  for Australia to give her last ounce of effort at the earliest moment, the more the majority of the people will realize that he is speaking the truth, and that the necessity is urgent. Most slanderous statements have been made against  Mr. Hughes  and other members of the Government, but these I will not do more than refer to. We have heard a great deal about the financial side of the question. All I am concerned with doing is to enable the Government to get the men. It is their duty to find the wherewithal to equip them, and they will do it. I am perfectly satisfied to leave that matter in the hands of a Labour Government, because every member of it is just as earnest, loyal, and solid as any other Labour man in any part of this chamber, and quite as much so as some of those who are traducing them. The fact that they have become members of the Government has not made them less Labour men or less loyal to the Labour cause. It is more likely that their position has widened their knowledge. I am satisfied to leave in the hands of the Government the preparation of the necessary financial scheme if the referendum is carried. My course in the meantime is clear. I shall vote to refer the matter to the people. I shall tell the people they ought to vote " Yes " to the proposal, and at the same time give my reasons for thinking that they should do so. 
I feel that I cannot give a silent vote. It is the early dawn, which reminds me that I differ from  Senator Lynch,  whose speech from a certain aspect I admired, in the muddled metaphor that he used when he sent a wire to his State about a "western dawn." 
It is still about as muddled as the honorable senator's arguments in favour of conscription. I am not afraid on nearly every occasion to trust the people on vital questions, but there are some occasions when I would not refer a matter to them. 
No; but I shall never vote to refer questions of human life and religious conscience to the people to decide.  Senator Story  has said that he is prepared to accept the verdict of the people. I also am prepared to do so if a referendum on this question is to be forced on us; but I shall do my best to prevent the people, or a portion of the people, deciding this issue when it cannot be fairly determined by them. I do not think it reasonable that all sections of the community should have the right to vote on a proposal to conscript only a section of the people, and to send that section into the inferno of war. 
I do not know that I would ; but as a party we advocate the abolition of capital punishment. I am prepared to state quite freely and frankly the position which I take up in reference to this matter, and I care not whom I please or displease. The issue is not a fair one to be voted upon by people who have nothing to lose, and may, perhaps, have something to gain by its acceptance. Unlike some honorable senators, I am not out on a heresy hunt. I do not want to engage in a scalp-hunting expedition with the object of capturing the Prime Minister's scalp. I do not for a moment indorse the statement that some of my colleagues have made that  Mr. Hughes  has been a traitor to the Labour movement. I believe that he has been one of the most potent factors in the building up of the movement which I with my colleagues have the honour to represent in this Legislature. I am not going to be among those who in this campaign will set out to abuse the Prime Minister, for I know that he has done a marvellous work for the betterment and the uplifting of the workers. I cannot see eye to eye with him on this question, but I give him credit for absolute sincerity. He honestly thinks that he is viewing the situation from the correct stand-point. He has seen the light from his point of view, but that point of view, in my opinion, is not the right one. Holding these views, I believe it to be my duty to oppose not only the Referendum Bill, but the proposal which it involves to conscript human life. If the Bill be carried, I hope that we shall enter upon the discussion of the question of conscription on the platforms of Australia without any heat or passion, and free from any antagonism as between man and mau. Let us discuss the question calmly and dispassionately. I sincerely trust that we shall not act like mad moblahs or dancing dervishes, but that we shall place our views forcibly before the people when asking them to consider what their verdict ought to be. Although I am by nature a pessimist, I have no hesitation in saying that, despite the great influence of the  Age,  the  Argus,  and other daily newspapers published in this State - despite the halo that adorns the head of our Prime Minister, and notwithstanding his illustrious record - the majority of the people of Victoria will vote against conscription. 
I am neither a prophet nor the son of a prophet. I propose briefly to state my reasons for opposing this Bill, and to refrain from discussing at this stage the main issue of conscription, which must be dealt with on the public platforms of Australia. It seems to me that the references that have been made to the question of conscription or no conscription during this debate in the Senate have been, to a certain extent, irrelevant to the Bill itself. The only question that we have at this stage to consider is whether a referendum should or should not be taken. I oppose the taking of a referendum, for I honestly and sincerely believe that those who, like myself,, object to the conscription of human life, will not receive the same fair treatment that will be extended to the supporters of the principle. I do not wish for one moment to attribute to the Prime Minister or the Minister for Defence any ulterior motives; I do not think they would conscientiously do anything to stifle freedom of speech on this most important question. 
I did. 
There are faults on both sides; but the bulk of them rest on the side advocated by the Prime Minister. 
I believe that we should allow the utmost freedom of speech, and also the greatest freedom of the press. If a man says or prints any ridiculous, disloyal, or libellous statement he must take the consequences. If a statement is ridiculous the people accept it at its face value. The more ridiculous or extreme it is the more damage the author of it does to the cause he is trying to advance. I think I view these matters in a fairly temperate light; but my blood fairly boiled when I learned of the seizure of the manifesto issued by the national executive of the congress dealing with the question of conscription. 
The manifesto as censored is very like the Irishman's rifle - if you take from it the portions struck out by the censor then practically everything goes, lock, stock, and barrel. 
I do not want to be interned. The manifesto as censored is a rather valuable document, and may some day be of historic importance. After the censor had done with it all that was left was practically the word "manifesto " at the top and the signatures at the bottom of it. Practically everything else was censored. Knowing as I do that the manifesto as originally printed contained some ridiculous statements, such as would not have convinced even the most asinine members of the community, I fail to understand what objection the Minister for Defence could have had to its circulation. It was so silly in some aspects and so true in some others- 
Should have been allowed to go out to the public. One reason why I am opposed to this referendum is that I do not think the opponents of conscription will be allowed to fairly, clearly, and properly set out their arguments. In this particular manifesto arguments were adduced that were not in my opinion detrimental to recruiting, that were in no way seditious, disloyal, or obnoxious to our gallant Allies, and yet they were censored. I shall give one illustration. 
I propose only to read certain portions of it which have been censored. Possibly they will be censored out of  Hansard.  Here is one statement - 
Manifesto of the National Executive of the Congress. 
Fellow Unionists, - Conscription is the law in Great Britain and in the Republic of the French. 
That was not censored. It is a mere statement of fact ; but the following paragraph has been censored :  - 
In both countries conscription has been used to render null and void all the achievements of trades unionism - to destroy customs, rights, and practices - to dilute and whittle away - to put unskilled in the place of skilled, women in the place of men, children in the place of adults. 
It is a statement of fact that in France women are taking the place of men. 
I am not discussing that phase of the question; I am merely asking honorable senators to consider whether this manifesto should or should not have been censored. 
I see nothing objectionable in the statement I have just read. Will the Minister deny that in France they are putting, as was said in the manifesto, unskilled in the place of skilled, women in the place of men, and children in the place of adults? 
Because of the war in conjunction with conscription. 
Two wrongs do not make a right. 
It is. 
The gentlemen who drew up this manifesto- 
I really do not know. Whoever they were they were only making a plain statement of fact. The publication of these statements was prohibited. 
The manifesto is signed by C. J. Bennett. 
If honorable senators will look at the  Herald,  they will see that  Mr. Bennett  has a son or a brother who was shot fighting for us and the Allies. The document is also signed by Frank Anstey, who, I believe, is a member of another place, and also has a son at the front. 
Yes; and the other signatories are R. H. Gill, Frank Hyett, A. D. Jones, L. Manning, B. A.  Mulvogue,  G. F. McGowan. J. McNeill, 
P. Russell, W. Smith, D.  Stobie,  and 
J. Holloway. 
I do not wish to be taken off the track of my argument at this hour. This manifesto affords one of the reasons for my not voting for the second reading. 
It was nearly all censored, except the heading and the signatures. 
The Minister of Defence knows as well as I do that, with  the  exception of one or two fragments or phrases, nearly the whole of the manifesto is crossed out in red ink - that the gist has been removed either by the censor or by the honorable gentleman himself. 
I do not think so, for I regard the manifesto as a harmless document. 
It is not fair to libel anybody who is fighting for, or assisting us in any way, but I do not regard the manifesto as a libel. It is purely a statement of the case from the anticon.scriptionist point of view. I do not think it is meant to be a libel on the conscript countries of Russia or of France ; and in view of the dramatic manner in which the manifesto was seized at the Trades Hall and the  Labour Gall  office, I begin to wonder whether I ought to vote for the referendum. All the facts seem to indicate that the people who are trying to put their views against conscription . will rot have as fair a deal as those who desire to put their views in its favour. Then we have to take into account the action of the Censor in connexion with cartoons.  Mr. Hughes  is a gentleman for whom I have the greatest respect, though I happen to differ from him on this particular question . On the 22nd July, 1915. as reported in  Hansard,  Mr. 
Hughes said that, in no circumstances, would he agree to send men out of the  country  to fight against their will. That declaration was made just one year and two months ago last night.  Mr. Hughes  has changed his opinion, and, knowing more than we do possibly, he has good reasons; but the fact is that a. cartoon, with the declaration I have quoted, is not allowed to be circulated. The cartoon is a handsome and very flattering picture of  Mr. Hughes,  but it has been censored and withdrawn from circulation. 
Then the honorable senator must have seen it by subterfuge, as I got possession of this cartoon.  Senator Lynch  knows that, legally speaking, this cartoon is not supposed to be in existence to-day. It was distributed, but  Mr. Hughes  himself, or the Censor, after seeing the cartoon and letterpress, in which I can find nothing objectionable, ordered that the copies should be seized and kept from circulation. No doubt it will be circulated in a way; but my point is that a document that contains a cartoon, and an argument against conscription, has been censored. When I know or think that those opposed to conscription will not get a fair hearing, how can I vote for the referendum ? Even some of  Mr. Hughes'  own speeches have been censored, and statements made by various honorable members in another place are not allowed to be circulated. We are told that  Mr. Hughes  has been to the front, and knows a great deal more than anybody else about the war; and I admit' that.  Mr. Hughes  has been right into the firing line, and has seen Joffre, Haig, and other generals ; and, as a man of discernment, brains, and brilliancy, he must realize the position better than we do. The honorable gentleman has come back, and he says that it is absolutely necessary to conscript men to reinforce the section held at present by the Australians. If we accept his statement, must we not also accept another statement by a man who has also .been to the front, and has seen our men fighting under similar conditions? I refer to  Mr. Ryan,  Premier of Queensland. He has been to the front, and has seen almost the same as  Mr. Hughes  has seen, and vet has come back with totally diverse views. 
I admit that. 
I did not think that  Senator Millen  had such a small idea of  Mr. Hughes'  appreciation of the position. 

 - Mr. Hughes, no doubt, had the advantage of getting more inner knowledge than did  Mr. Ryan,  but  Senator Millen  cannot deny that both  Mr. Hughes  and  Mr. Ryan  saw practically the same fighting line. 
If  Mr. Hughes  saw nothing,  Mr. Ryan  saw nothing; and they came back with totally* differentviews. 
One practical illustration is better than ten theoretical ones. If  Mr. Hughes  and  Mr. Ryan  both saw the same men fighting under similar conditions, surely to goodness they, as leaders of parties in the Commonwealth and State, had power to judge for themselves, irrespective of what they were told by generals, or members of Parliament, or the War Council. If  Mr. Hughes  is absolutely right, then  Mr. Ryan  is absolutely wrong; and the possibility is either way.  Mr. Ryan  is leader of a party in Queensland, and the whole of that party is totally opposed to conscription as unnecessary. 
 Mr. Ryan  arranged to speak at the Exhibition meeting, which was a much bigger meeting than that addressed on Thursday night by  Senator Lynch  and the Prime Minister at the Melbourne Town Hall. It is true that the Exhibition meeting did not get the publicity that the Prime Minister's meeting did, but there were many voters at the former, and there will be more on the 28th October whose votes will count just as much as those of the people who, mostly by ticket, went to listen to the flowery eloquence of the Prime Minister and  Senator Lynch. 
Yes, I give  Senator Lynch  credit for the company he keeps, and I am sorry it is so bad. 

 - Senator Lynch's mind is so obsessed on this particular question that he would follow the devil if the devil would advocate conscription. 
I do not wish to say anything more on tills particular aspect of the question. I am quite convinced what the result will be on the 28th October in Victoria, irrespective of the flag flapping and organ playing, and the eloquence of  Senator Lynch,  of which we had an example  to-night - fiery, eloquent, Celtic, and in every respect worthy of the man. No matter what is said or done, the people of Victoria will not vote to place the obnoxious principle of conscription on the statute-book. 
I cannot speak for the whole of the people of Australia, but my Victorian colleagues and I, myself, no matter what it costs or what the effect may be, will do all we can against the proposal underlying the referendum. 
We are going  to  try to get the people with us, because we believe that conscription is neither fair nor necessary. The Prime Minister has stated that we must have reinforcements at the front, and we should be cowards and curs if we allowed our men in the fighting line to have no respite. I think, however, that reinforcements can be  arranged  without conscription. 
I think that conscription can be done without by utilizing the forces at present on Salisbury Plain and in other places in Britain. I do not wish to see our line shortened. The Prime Minister says that if we have, say, 100 men holding a certain length of the firing line, we must send 100 more men from Australia as reinforcements to give them a spell. Accepting that statement as correct, we should then, if the conscription proposal is given effect, have 200 men at the front, and, should they meet with disaster as the result of a successful effort by the enemy, we should have to send 200 more men to reinforce our line. Like the rolling snowball, the numbers sent away would be continually growing, and this might involve the depletion of the manhood of the Commonwealth. In the circumstances, no member of the Senate can agree with the statement made by the Prime Minister in Sydney, that there will be no need to call up married men. 
No, I would not. If the safety of the country depended on it, we should call up the aged and decrepit, but we should be candid in the matter, and let the people know what the position really is. I interjected, during the speech made' by  Senator Millen,  and secured his admission, that if the referendum is carried in the affirmative, the liability to serve will be upon married as well as upon single men, and not only upon those between 21 and 45 years of age, but upon all who may be called up at the present time for home service under the Defence Act. Many who will vote "Yes" at the referendum will stay at home with their wives and families, and be content to send others to the front to fight for them. I believe that under the Prime Minister's proposal it is highly probable that, within the next six or seven months, married men will have to be called up, because 32,500 men are wanted this month, and 16,500 per month after that. 
The Prime Minister has been painting the blackest of pictures, and we are told that every man will be wanted. All I desire in this connexion is that the people of Australia should be told that married men may be called up under the Government proposal. The Prime Minister, in the press, would lead people to believe that only single men without dependants will need to be called up. I shall not say moremon that aspect of the question. I have now to refer to the industrial aspect. It may be said that I am a scaremonger when I say that if the scheme is carried out in its entirety it will involve the depletion of the able-bodied men of Australia, our industries cannot be carried on, and, to use the words of  Senator Millen,  the wool will rot on the sheeps'  backs, and the wheat will rot on the ground. 
I agree that it is better that that should happen than that we should lose Australia. But I am pointing out that if all these men are sent away from Australia, we shall not have sufficient men left here to carry on our industries. 
I recognise that the barometer will be regulated fairly. 
I am prepared to . let every man go who is willing to go as a volunteer. 
I think that the number required for reinforcements could be sent away without denuding the labour market to such an extent as to prevent the carrying on of the industries of the country.  Senator Millen  must admit that our industrial work must be carried on. If a great many are sent away under the conscript system, or, for that matter, even under the voluntary system, it will be said that we must have some one to do the work which has to be done, and to keep the wheels of industry moving. If our men do not return, or return maimed and mutilated, it will be contended by the captains of industry or the Government that we must secure labour from outside sources, and then the condition of affairs in Australia will become what it is in London to-day. In a cablegram which appeared in the  Herald  dated from London last week, it was stated that the influx of Chinese in the East End and in the dock districts was so great that a trade union congress had been held to consider the matter, and it was further stated that fan-tan playing, opium smoking, and immorality were prevalent. 
I do not say that the Labour Government would do it, but I cannot tell how long  Senator Pearce  will occupy the position which he now adorns. A Government opposed to Labour may occupy the Treasury benches, and will honorable senators tell me that men of the character of  Sir William  Irvine would not be only too anxious to grasp at the opportunity? We should then have Chinese working here as they are working now in the docks of Great Britain, and in Prance. I venture to predict that if conscription is adopted, both single and married men will be sent away, an insufficient number of men will be' left to carry on our industries, and a demand will be made to import labour from some other part of the world, just as kanakas were imported in the days gone by to cut cane in Queensland. I sincerely hope that I am wrong, but the fulfilment of my prediction is certainly possible if too many men are sent away whether under the voluntary system or as conscripts. There are some honorable senators in this chamber who, with colleagues of theirs in another place, would be only too pleased if they had the opportunity and the power to bring about such a state of affairs. I say this in view of the predilections they displayed when the kanaka and White Australia questions were being decided in this Parliament in the early days of Federation. I shall oppose this Bill at every stage, and I shall oppose the conscription proposal from every pie* norm during the referendum campaign. 1 do not think that it will require very much opposition, because I feel that I know what the opinion of the majority of the people will be when the position is explained. When the real position is explained to the small business man, or to a woman who may have a sweetheart, or a brother, or some other relative, liable to conscription, they will not be misled and gulled by the Conservative press. 
I do not say that the small business man, or any other person, will put his pocket before the necessity for helping the men who are fighting so gallantly for us at the front. But I do say that, when they consider the Question calmly, &amp;ney will hesitate for a long time before recording a vote in favour of conscription. I shall do all that I can temperately, and without bombast or threat, to induce those with whom I come into  contact  .to vote against the iniquitous principle of conscription. 

 Senator BUZACOTT (Western Australia [8.15 a.m.]. - My remarks on this subject will be very brief indeed, because I have no apology to make as to my attitude towards the Bill. As far as the principle of the referendum is concerned, I said on scores of platforms at the last Federal elections that not only was I in favour of the initiative and referendum, but that the whole of the party were pledged to it. I am satisfied, also, that if it had not been for the fact that so much time has been taken up in legislative and administrative work connected with the war, the initiative and referendum would ha.ve been on the statute-book of the Commonwealth to-day. Furthermore, I am satisfied that if we had had this law in operation, the people of Australia months ago would have initiated the referendum we are now proposing to take. Coming to the subject-matter of the Bill - compulsory service abroad - I have to say that I am not an ardent admirer of the so-called voluntary system. I term it the " so-called voluntary system " because we never had the voluntary system in Australia. My colleague,  Senator Barnes,  in his speech this morning brought forward some of the strongest  arguments that have been introduced in this Chamber against the existing system when he said that he knew men who had been starved into enlisting to fight for us across the seas. It is the most rotten system of conscription that we could possibly have in operation, because under it the Government do not decide who shall go to fight; that decision really rests with the Employers Federation. I know that many men with large families have been compelled to go because they could not get work. I met some of them, and to one I said, "I do not think the time has come for men with your responsibilities to go and leave large families behind you ; there are other men with less responsibilities who should go first." He replied, " Well, we have to go, because we cannot get work, and cannot provide food, let alone clothing, for our wives and families. Wherever we go to ask for a job, the employers say, ' Go up to the Barracks ; they want able-bodied men there, and you will get a job.' " These men were actually forced to enlist. One of them lost his life at Gallipoli, and now there are eight fatherless children in that family. If we had had in operation the system of conscription, we would never have had that burden thrust upon the country, for we would never have allowed married men to go, perhaps to lose their lives and leave young children without a parent's care. I do not want to go into a lengthy argument on this question of the conscription of human life, because I take it, when the referendum campaign is in progress, every member of this Parliament will be called upon to go on the public platform and tell the people as much as he is allowed to say concerning the position in which we stand as a Commonwealth, and our position with respect to the Motherland. I have no hesitation in saying on which side I will be. During the last Federal elections I was asked, if the Labour party were returned to power, would they cancel the enrolment of the 20,000 troops that had been enrolled by the Cook Government, and I answered " No." The Labour party, I said, recognised that we were part and parcel of the British Empire, and had our duty to do in connexion with this war. Having made that statement before the electors, and having been, to a great extent, elected upon it, it is my duty to vote to send reinforcements for the 20,000 men who were despatched in the first place.. Every man in this Federal Parliament who voted Supply for those men is also in honour bound to continue to vote money, and to continue to find men as reinforcements, even to the extent of bringing in the compulsory clauses of the Defence Act. We have heard a lot about the conscription of wealth to carry on the war. I believe in it, and the Government promised to bring down financial proposals to that end, including a scheme to ensure the success of the repatriation movement. At the present time we have the voluntary enlistment for service abroad, and we have the voluntary and the  compulsory  systems operating side by side to provide funds for the war. We conscript some of the wealth in the form of taxation, and we are asking people to give voluntarily to the repatriation and patriotic funds. Personally I think every penny necessary for the repatriation of our soldiers, as well as the patriotic funds, should be obtained compulsorily ; that every person who is making a decent living here should be compelled to pay a fair share towards the conduct of this war, and the maintenance of the various funds incidental to it. I desire to emphasize the point raised yesterday by  Senator Ferricks  in connexion with the Appeal Boards, and I hope the Minister will give special attention to this matter, and that we will have an Appeal Court constituted in a manner different from that suggested by the Prime Minister, for I am not prepared to trust the resident magistrates throughout the whole of this Commonwealth. A great majority, it is true, can be trusted, but I know that one particular resident magistrate in Western Australia took the stand that he would not appoint a labour representative on a confidential sub-committee of the recruiting committee unless he was compelled by law to do so. 
I would suggest a Court upon which there would be a representative of the employees; for instance, a member of the labour organizations and a representative of the employers' organizations, with a Judge to be mutually agreed upon by the two parties. 
Does the Minister not think it would be possible to get fair men to decide this question ?  
Having in mind the attitude taken up by the resident magistrate to whom I have referred, I am not prepared to allow the workers of Australia to depend for their exemption on such men, for they will take very good care that men of their own class are exempted, and we want to guard against any discrimination. 
If this matter is to be provided for by regulations drawn up by the Defence Department, I see no danger in the Appeal Court, constituted as I suggested, and I see no reason why the first Appeal Court should not be final. I fail to understand the attitude taken up by  Senator Blakey.  He declares himself opposed to conscription, but is afraid totrust the people of Victoria, because, as he says, old men and old women, and men and women without sons liable to be called up, will have the right to vote on this subject. But in the next breath the honorable senator says, "I am satisfied that so far as Victoria is concerned the referendum will be turned down by a great majority." If  Senator Blakey  is satisfied that the referendum will be negatived, why is he afraid to trust the people of Victoria?, In my judgment, the honorable senator is not so sure about the referendum being defeated, but is afraid that it will be carried. So far as I can learn, after moving among the workers, a very great number of them are in favour of conscription. I have met a great many who say that they know it is their duty to go to the front, and they are prepared to go when the " other fellow" goes, but they fear that the " other fellow " is waiting to jump into the jobs which they leave. " Why should I go," they ask, " and allow the other fellow to take my job?" They admit that the fairest method of ali is for the Labour Government to adopt the system of conscription, and I hope that when the referendum is carried, the Minister will be able to have regulations so framed as to deal fairly and justly with all classes of the community. 

 Sitting suspended from 8.30 a.m. to 10 a.m.. (Saturday). 

It must be admitted by all who have been present throughout the debate that it has been conducted in the best of good humour. There has been an entire absence of recriminations, and may I be permitted to add that the addresses delivered have been of a high standard ; some of them have been exceptionally good. Not only is this one of the most serious questions we have ever faced, but the position in itself is critical, and it demands, as I think it has received from honorable senators, deen thoughtfulness  arid  seriousness. It is no trifling matter with which we are dealing, and we are beginning to realize at last that we are at war. Some prophets have told us that the war is over, but I do not think that at any time during the last two years has there been evidence of such depth of feeling as to what the world conflict really means to Australia. Notwithstanding that, there has been during the debate a tendency to cloud the true issue, and to argue in a limp way the real subject that is before us. The argument has been advanced that  a  submission of this question by referendum to the people is not a just step to take. With that I do not agree. We are appealing to-day, to the people who create Parliaments, upon the most vital question that has ever been before any nation, to give to us who make their laws a direction as to the action we should take, and if it is to be contended that on such a subject as this the referendum shall not be employed, I seriously ask what subjects can be submitted to the people. The argument that some people will vote for conscription who may not be personally affected by it is swept aside by the fact that every man, woman, and child in Australia, from greyheaded old men to little toddlers just escaped from the cradle,  i3  affected by  this war. It is not a wise judgment which prompts some persons to urge that a question so essential to the nation's best interests shall be decided by a few people who have not received any mandate from their masters as to the course they shall adopt. How far-reaching the effects of the people's decision may be we cannot tell, but to say that some will vote on the question who are not directly affected is only to beg the issue. We can scarcely take  up  a newspaper without finding that nations far distant from the seat of war are embroiled in it. Although they may be beyond sound of the thunder of guns, and although no shells may be bursting on their territories, still they are affected commercially, socially, and almost in every other way; indeed, it seems as if the present war is a world crisis. Few of us would be daring enough to even indicate what we think society will be like after the war. Few of us dare prophesy in what way we shall resume life again, and try to piece together its broken threads. The world will be so changed and modified that we might almost say that on the day peace is declared we shall enter into a new world, with new conditions and new environments, and, as a consequence, new laws will have to be made to meet the altered circumstances. Not only is magazine literature teeming with opinions as to what may occur after the war, but books dealing with all the post-war possibilities are' being written far more plentifully than they can be read. Therefore, to contend that in  regard  to such a farreaching question, we, who call ourselves Democrats, are not to take the most democratic weapon we have, and use it to save the people, seems to deny our right to call ourselves Democrats. These arguments are weak in themselves, and weak in the way they are expressed. To-day we are appealing to Caesar, and I must confess that I am "in a quandary as to what to say to Caesar. Am I to go before him as a partisan, and state my case only? Am I to ask Caesar to decide on this question from my view-point alone, or am I to trust to somebody else who may follow after me to state the other side? If  Caesar  is to judge justly he must know both the pros and cons. It is all very well for the man who does not believe in submitting the referendum to the people to say that he is going forth to persuade everybody to vote " No." It is all very well for the man on the other side to say that he will endeavour to persuade the people to vote "Yes" ; but the general public, who have to decide this vital question, should be possessed of all the knowledge it is possible to give to them, so that they may arrive at a right decision. We have realized the seriousness of the issue, and how much depends on the way it is decided, and we have spoken in bated breath of dangers that are possible, dangers that may be immediate or may be distant. Yet we know full well that the final arbiters in this matter cannot be seized of the facts as we are. When we go forth shortly to debate this question before the people much that we know will have to be kept from them; although a decision that will affect the interests of Australia, perhaps for ages, hence, must' be given on the 28th October. There is no room for hilarity or levity, and no justification for taking a partial view of the question or treating it from a party stand-point. It rises infinitely superior to all parties, and stands forth as a great national issue. 
There is no room for either of those things. To allow the subject to be clouded or befogged by any such influences would give the public the idea that we do not grasp the position thoroughly. I honestly believe that every senator has conscientiously expressed his view of the question. I give to others just as freely as I take to myself credit for being conscientious in the attitude adopted. The position in regard to conscription seems to me to be this: I am a member of society ; I receive benefits from society; if I am not prepared to pay the price that society demands from me for the enjoyment of those benefits I have no right to be in society. We cannot reap where we have not sown; and if we are to receive protection from society we must prepare to give defence to society. If we shirk that responsibility by any subterfuge or argument, or by any palliation of conscience, we are most unmistakably showing that we have no right to the benefits society confers. Nationhood not merely confers benefits on citizens, but also imposes obligations, and may demand sacrifices. A  speaker  in this debate has said that it must be left to the individual conscience to determine what sacrifice is called for, but my conception of the duty of citizenship is that, although the individual must be controlled by ais own conscience in regard to actions affecting merely himself, he must be controlled in his actions as a member of a society by the conscience of that society. No member of a society belongs to himself, or is his own master. It has been urged that society ought not to vote away human life, but we know that society takes human life as a penalty for the transgression of its laws. The hangman's knot proclaims that for the violation of certain laws death is the penalty. The basic principle of all society is that those who receive must be prepared to pay an equivalent. To deny that principle is to ostracize oneself. 
I do. The submission of this question to the people is an absolutely democratic course, and one in harmony with the platform of the Labour party. I could no more refuse to give effect to the referendum plank oi our platform than I could refuse to give effect to any other plank. To do so would be inconsistent with my membership of the Labour party. Some honorable senators have dwelt strongly on the financial responsibilities imposed on the Commonwealth by the war. We were not permitted at the beginning of the war to sit down and count its cost, and we have been obliged to conduct our share of it with only a partial knowledge of the obligations entailed. It cannot rightly be contended that because our participation in the war will involve a greater sacrifice than we have ever before had to make we should draw out. It has been argued thai, the referendum should not be taken because Australia has already done enough. When will Australia have done enough? Only when peace is established throughout the world. There can be no half measures, nor can we enter upon our stupendous task light-heartedly. What honorable business nian, finding himself in a tighter corner than he had -ever been in before, would repudiate his obligations? Any man who would do such a thing would be regarded as untrustworthy and unstable. 
We should not like to give the world that opinion of this Commonwealth. We should not like our children's children to think that we were careless of the honour of the country, and drew out from responsibilities which we had willingly undertaken. There might have been force in much that has been said during the debate about the small population of Australia, and the great cost of me war, if it had been said before we had decided to play any part in it. But having sanctioned the sending away of one division after another, having cheered unit after unit as it left our shores, we cannot  now  disregard our promises to Great Britain and her Allies. Many of us can remember the period of the bank disasters and commercial failures. At that time Australia was much more thinly populated than it is now, and her financial strength much less, but we cannot forget her magnificent power of recuperation. Because the obligations that we have undertaken in connexion with the war are bigger than we have  ever  had before, are we going to say to Great Britain, who has so long been our protector and shield - we do not know how completely that shield has covered  us  on many an occasion - " We wish to dissolve the partnership and to cut the painter." 
Yes. And I do not think there is a man in this Parliament who, iu sober moments, would say that he desired it to be done. We are now in a position from which we  cannot  honorably withdraw. It has been suggested that we have over-reached ourselves, but, if we have, I do not blame the Government very much. At times recruits presented themselves so fast, crowding 'the camps to overflowing, that there seemed no power to stay the enthusiasm of our men for service. No doubt it was that that prompted the Ministry to go a step further. They may have erred in judgment, but for that they will have no blame from me. though I suggest that the division which has been broken into for reinforcements should be used entirely to strengthen the others. Coming now to the question of conscription, we were told some months ago by the Minister for Defence that the introduction of compulsion then would not have secured a larger number of recruits than the voluntary system was yielding. If that be so, does it not seem that by holding to that which we have without extending our line we may be able to honorably fulfil our promise to the Old Land ? Much that has been said about the numbers available is due to the use of rose-tinted glasses. We have been told that the number of single men* over the age of twenty-one years that will be available is 112.800, but let me call attention to these figures which appeared in yesterday's  Age.  Of 8,431 men who have offered themselves for enrolment in Victoria during September, only 1,302, or about one in eight, have been accepted. Those figures so astonished me that I thought at first that I must have misread them. I could not believe that out of 8.431 persons who had presented themselves for examination only 1,302 were considered to be medically fit for service. If the same ratio of unfitness obtains throughout the ranks of the 112,800 single men who are supposed to be available, the number of  physically  fit would be reduced to 14,100. Then, if I were inclined to adopt the reasoning of  Senator Mullan,  by reducing that number by 30 per cent, for one thing, 10 per cent, for another, and perhaps 25 per cent, for a third, how many would be left? We should require a microscope to discover them. But there must be some explanation for those mysterious figures. I cannot conceive that the doctors have been bribed. Is the explanation to be found in the fact that those men who are really fit to go to the front  do not volunteer, whilst those who are physically unfit offer themselves for service ? Is there no way of discriminating between the fit and the unfit before they reach the examining medical officers ? 1 do not know whether the censor will be at work upon our speeches, but if there is any information which the enemy ought not to get, it is that which is contained in these figures. 
It would be a terribly bad advertisement for Australia if the facts are what the figures suggest.' I have not compared the returns of other States with those of Victoria from the stand-point of the number of men who have been rejected; I hope that they do not disclose the same ratio - of physically unfit. I wish now to say a few words in reply to the contention that conscription is undemocratic. What is Democracy ? Is it not government ? How is government effected but through those whom the people have elected to make laws for them ? In this instance we are formulating an Act which is to be administered by the people themselves. Yet we are told that it is not democratic. We are further assured that war and democratic government are not reconcilable. But war and democratic government in the present instance are inseparable. If the honorable senator who affirmed that war and democratic government are not reconcilable propounded that doctrine in Germany, I would be in agreement with him. In the making of war, I admit that war and Democracy are irreconcilable. But it is not so when we are defending our own. We believe in the compulsory enrolment and training of men for home defence. How are we going to interpret " home defence " ? Is our defence not to be regarded as " home defence ' ' until the enemy comes within the 3-miles territorial limit? Was it not true "home defence" when the  Sydney  sank the  Emden,  although the fight took place outside of our territorial waters ? Is there a single honorable senator who argues against compelling men to go to the front who would have said to the crew of the  Sydney, "  You must not go abroad for service, because that would be undemocratic, and because such service would not be for the purpose of home defence"? There is not a single member in this Chamber who would have bidden the captain of the  Sydney  to stay his course and abstain from wreaking vengeance on the  Emden.  As  Senator Lynch  well said, the privileges we enjoy to-day were purchased for us in the centuries that have gone. And the privileges that we hand down to our children will be their inheritance, and surely that inheritance should -be a richer one than we have received. What position, then, ought we to take up on this question? Some contend that Australia alone is threatened. Some urge that the determination of this matter is a party question. Now, I believe that in the life of every nation and of every party there comes a testing time - a time when that  nation becomes from that point onwards, either decadent or stronger, when that party dissolves and goes to pieces, or rises to a higher glory. To Australia to-day has come such a testing time. How are we to stand ? How are we to uphold the banner that has been given to us? How are we to 'defend that banner, and to be loyal to those who have handed down to us this great heritage? I cannot believe that there are amongst us those who think that the present crisis affords them an opportunity of lifting their own party to prominence. I  believe  that this question is regarded as a national one, which is far above all party considerations. If we approach it in that light, if we as a party with a history of which we may be proud, with ideals of which we may be still prouder,  ant-  with hopes that are even greater than our ideals - if we remain true to our party and to the nation to which we belong, we shall emerge from this great crisis strengthened rather than weakened, consolidated rather than defeated, and made better rather than injured. For myself, I have been all  my  life a strong anti-conscription ist. I confess it freely. If there is one thing which I have regarded with horror, it is war. If there is one thing which I have thought Democracy would km stone dead, it is war. If I have hoped that the time would come when the sword would be beaten into a pruning hook, it has been because I have faith in Democracy, and I confess that to me it has been the saddest sight I ever witnessed to behold the Democrats of France facing the Democrats of Germany in a bloody struggle. Although all my life I have been opposed to conscription to the very core, I stand to-day and ask myself whether voluntarism will fill the Bill. That question can be answered in the affirmative only if we have faith in Australia - if we believe that she will respond to the call. My honest conviction is that it is because our young Australian manhood have believed that our training camps were filled to overflowing that they have not come forward. Another reason which has militated against recruiting is that they saw the vacancies created by the enlistment oi their mates, filled sometimes by foreigners, and often by men whom trade unionists describe as "scabs." I honestly believe that if we can get to these men who have been so remiss in their duty, and say to them, "Your country needs you to-day," they will respond just as readily as did our people at the beginning of this struggle. But, of course, there must come a time - if the war lasts long enough - when Australia will have sent all her able-bodied men to the front. I do not think, however, that that time will be within the next twelve months. We have been calculating the wastage of the war on the basis of the wastage that has occurred during the present offensive. We have not considered that, during the winter, there will not be the same rate of wastage that there has been during the summer. I believe that the men who have already enlisted, and those who may be persuaded to enlist before the referendum is taken, will be sufficient to uphold Australia's honour. If I have an ardent wish, it is that right to the close of the war, not  one man  shall have been sent from Australia against his will, that every man who goes to the front shall be a true patriot in the highest sense of the term. If there is one thing of which Australia may be proud to-day, it is the position she has maintained up to the present time. I refuse to believe that there is beating in any Australian's heart to-day the feeling that any young man able to take his position at the front will fail to do so when tile position is placed before him in its proper perspective. Only the other day, I met a young nian in the streets of Adelaide who told me his position. He had enlisted for active service, and he was a married man who was leaving a wife and four children behind him. In the course of conversation, he said to me. " I am going away to fight this country's battles. I want you as a legislator to remember that I have left mv wife behind in charge of Australia's Parliament. See that she does not starve." Every patriot has a right to demand that. If it takes the last shilling Australia has, it will be a price far too cheap for the sacrifice that these men have made for the honour and defence of Australia. Can we believe that those who are left in Australia are inferior in quality to those who have called forth the praises of almost the whole world for the great deeds that they have done? Can we believe that they are less able to be appealed to ? Can we believe that any single man able to bear arms will be unwilling to do so when he knows that the time has come when his services are needed? I think not. Therefore, I am prepared to support the Bill, and, against the convictions of a lifetime, I am prepared to go further. Although I may never stand in this 
Parliament afterwards, and although the organizations with which I am connected may not support my action, I am prepared to give the Government power to conscript men for the defence of Australia when they find that the time has arrived for that step to be taken. 
I have come to a decision to support the Bill before us on the reports that have been submitted to us by  Mr. Hughes,  who is in possession of more information concerning the true position in regard to the war than is any honorable senator. We have trusted  Mr. Hughes;  we have elected him leader of our party and Prime Minister of Australia, and if we have no confidence in him we should no longer follow him as leader. I do not know that any honorable senator has been more closely associated with  Mr. Hughes  in industrial matters than I have been for the last twenty-five years, and the fact that during this period I have never had reason to doubt him on any matter has guided me largely in the decision to which I have come. I believe, also, that reinforcements are absolutely necessary. A great deal has been said as to what has been done in other wars, but this war differs from previous wars. What the newspapers have described as decisive victories have proved to be the taking of five yards of trench. In former wars a rout meant that a cavalry charge had swept the enemy away. To-day a rout amounts to the dislodging of the enemy from,, a few yards of trench. I receive information from men as the front. If some honorable senators knew the conditions under which our troops exist in the trenches, and how long they have to remain without relief, they would at once demand the despatch of tl at relief as soon as possible. I have no wish to discourage recruiting, but the letters which I have received show that, owing to the considerable time the men are kept in the trenches, it is impossible for them to get their natural rest. One letter puts the position in this way: "Fritz's bullets we do not care for - we can dodge them ; but we cannot dodge the other things that keep us awake night and day." There are rats as big as cats running in and out, and gnawing at everything they can find in the trenches. One can easily imagine the condition of the men's bodies. Here we consider that eight hours is a fair day's work. Our men remain in the trenches for three or four times eight hours without being able to get out of them. 
This evidence shows how necessary it is to send reinforcements.  Mr. Hughes  says that the Army Council have advised him that  it  is necessary to get men. Of course we have regular " Bill Adamses " in this Chamber, who could finish off the war at any time. In fact, we heard from one honorable senator that the war was over. But we cannot claim to have taken a foot of German territory. Do we imagine that Germany will sue for peace so long as she is able to keep us out of her country? It is not likely. Having given the matter careful consideration, I have come to the conclusion that a settlement is a long way off yet. We are fighting for the supremacy of the trade of the world. Germany is trying to wrest it from us, and our task is to starve Germany by  a  blockade or get her warships out of the Kiel Canal into the North Sea. It is only there that the decisive battle will be fought. If the German Fleet blows the British ships out of the water Great Britain might just as well invite the Kaiser to London and install him there as Emperor, because Great Britain will be absolutely done for once the Navy is gone. On the other hand, if we can cripple the German Fleet and destroy it we put Germany back for 100 years. During the first year of the war the deaths alone were 5,000,000, and the wounded were twice that number. These figures show the numbers that have to be made up by the Allies. It is claimed that Australia is doing her share; but I hold that the war must be won at any cost, and that every man who is fit to fight should be at the front. 
It would go a long way towards assisting to bring about a decision in favour of the Allies. 
We cannot send our warships into the Kiel Canal, and we can only drive the German warships out of that canal by way of the land. With trench warfare it will take the Allies a very long time to reach the canal, because, under- the present system of fighting a see-saw game is proceeding, one side gaining a few yards now and again and then retiring.. The greater the number of men one side can put into the front line the greater will be its chance of success. Therefore it is necessary that every single man among the Allies shall be put into the field. I have shown one way of reaching a decision. Others hold the opinion that this is a war of exhaustion, and that the side which can hold out in its dug-outs longest and starve the other side by a blockade will win. But how long will that process of exhaustion take? Today the territory of Germany is absolutely intact, her factories are turning out munitions, and her women are cultivating the soil and feeding the nation, and I am inclined to think that some of the neutral countries to the north are helping her with food. Our blockade is not so effective as most people imagine it is, and Germany can hold out for a very long time. Every honorable senator has lauded our soldiers, and said that they are the best in the world, and that they should get the best conditions in the world. Let us then give them an eight hours' day in the trenches. But we cannot until we have more men. 
I say that it is an absolute certainty that the Allies will win, but the trouble is how long it will take them to win. 
What did Lord Kitchener say when we first entered the 
Avar ? Some honorable senators and people outside said that the war was a matter of six months only. I always said that Lord Kitchener had asked for supplies for three  years,  but had not said the war WOUld be finished in that time. I think it will be a lone-drawn-out struggle, and that we ought to make every provision in our power to bring it to an end as soon as possible. On the financial side of the question, will it not pay us better to go to the expense of sending the extra men if they are going to end the war a month or two earlier ? I am going whole-souled for the referendum, and will advise the people to vote "Yes" to the proposition. It has been said that we are doing better than Canada, and quotations have been read from speeches by the Premier and Leader of the Opposition in that country. They say they will not go in for conscription, but there is a very good reason for that. Even in Australia the Government have had to decree that every individual wanting to leave Australia must first produce a passport, but in Canada it is a mere matter of slipping through a wire fence into America. It is further said that the adoption of conscription would interfere with immigration, but Canada is situated entirely differently from us.  South Africa has had its own troubles, and has nobly done great service to the Empire. The freedom and privileges we have enjoyed in this country are worth fighting for, and we ought to do our level best to maintain them.- We should not consider the trifling question of what' may happen to a little business man if our men go away, and he sells a pair of trousers less than he did before. As the Leader of the Opposition well put it, what if the wool is not shorn, what if the wheat is not reaped ? If we lose the war it will belong to the Germans, and it is just as well that he should get the wool and wheat without it being shorn and reaped. I shall do my level best to see that the proposals of the Government are carried out. 
It was laid down by the first  President  of the Senate that the right of the  President  to a deliberative vote also carried with it the right to take part in the deliberations of this Chamber. That ruling- 1 entirely agree with, although I must candidly say it is a right that ought to be very sparingly used. It is only the importance of the present occasion that induces me to depart from the very sound rule that the  President  should not take part in the turmoil of debate. I wish to put the question as clearly and plainly as T can. I am speaking now as a senator, and as  President  of the Senate, and must appeal to the indulgence of honorable senators, who have always treated me with the utmost consideration and kindness, and assisted me in every way, on this occasion to further extend that indulgence and kindness to me, because if there is any disorder when I am speaking I shall immediately have to forego my right to speak, and resume the chair in order to fulfil my functions as  President.  By indulging, therefore, in any disorder, honorable senators would deprive me of the right to speak. If that obligation is upon them there is an equal obligation upon myself to speak in a very restrained fashion, so that I may not excite animosity, contention, or recrimination. That condition I intend to rigidly impose upon myself, and to address myself to the subject in a far more restrained fashion than I would feel free to do if I occupied a seat as a private member on the floor of the Senate. 
The question we are discussing ought to be capable of being reasoned out to a logical conclusion, stripped of all the side issues and cloudy paraphernalia that has been raised around it in various quarters. It should be capable of being reasoned out to a logical conclusion by any intellectual person, and even by any person with the rudiments of an intellect. I do not intend to cloud the issue by any Imperialistic flag-waving, or talking of the glories of the Empire, or the honour and fame to be gained by war. The question before us is, " Is compulsion a right or wrong thing to resort to in the circumstances?" I propose to discuss that question, and that alone. I have no judgment to pass upon any honorable senator for what he has done here. Probably those who voted against the first reading, and are voting against the referendum, have full justification from their point of view. I am not going to bit in judgment upon them, nor upon those who say they are in favour of the principle of the referendum, and are going to vote for it, although opposed to the principle of conscription. I am responsible for myself. I intend to accept that responsibility, and want to concede the same right to everybody else. 
Honorable senators have said, and it has been repeated over and over again outside, that compulsion is undemocratic. I absolutely deny and disagree with that view. All law is compulsion. The ten commandments are compulsion. Most of them begin with the words " Thou shalt not," and the punishment is not to be merely to the persons who break the commandments, but for a breach of at least one of them, is to extend to the third and fourth generations. If we break the supreme law - the defence of our country and liberty - the punishment will fall, not merely upon us, but on our children to the twentieth and thirtieth generations. 
Democracy is entirely and absolutely different from despotism, and I often shudder to think what is going to be the fate of Democracy if Democracy will not face the facts. Despotism may silently, gradually, for years in advance, prepare to destroy Democracy, and if Democracy will not take adequate and complete steps to protect itself it i9 wiped off the face of the earth. There can be no advance in liberty, there can be nothing, unless Democracy is prepared to face the facts. The great fact to-day is that we are face to face with the most horrible, bloody, blood-curdling, and revolting war the world has ever seen, greater in its horror and repulsiveness than the sum of all the wars that have preceded it. Are we responsible for it? Had Australia any share in bringing it about? Absolutely none. Are we concerned in the war ? No one can deny that we are vitally and absolutely concerned in it. What was the war begun for? The cry of Germany, who forced the war upon the innocent nations of Europe, was for " a place in the sun " - for world power. Where has Germany a better opportunity to obtain it than in Australia - a whole continent, the richest and most desirable on the face of the earth ? 
If a nation like Germany, with its despotic power, occupied and conquered Australia she would have the most absolute and complete power that the world has ever known any nation to possess. There is no getting away from that fact. It is the bounden duty of us, who possess this splendid heritage, to see that the structure of Democracy we, have built up here does not fall into the hands or despotism. It is our bounden duty to see that the autonomy ana liberty which we possess are handed down in all their integrity, unimpaired and intact, to our children; otherwise we shall ,prove ourselves totally unworthy of having enjoyed them ourselves. We have in this country, under our free constitution, built up a structure of democratic freedom and progress, industrially, socially, and politically, unequalled in the history of the world. What will become of that splendid heritage if we allow ourselves to be attacked and conquered? The structure we have already built up, the heights of democratic freedom that we have already reached, are as a mere nothing compared with the grandeur of the heights which we may reach if our liberty is preserved to us. Are we going to sacrifice them, or even risk their sacrifice? Others may take the responsibility. I will not. 
I am not concerned, as some honorable senators seem to have been, about what  Mr. Hughes  said or did in England, or what he says or does now. I am not supporting this Bill because it is a Government proposition. Those who have been any considerable time in the Senate know I have never been a slavish follower of any Government, whether it was a Labour Government or not. Some of the most strenuous fights ever (put up in this Chamber against a Labour Government were put up by myself, when I did not agree with them, and if I were in the position of some honorable senators, who are so violently opposed to the Bill, and the principle embodied in it, and occupied a seat on the floor of the Chamber, with the same number of men at my back, I- would put up a fight that would make their present efforts look small. I say this to show that it is not because this is the Government proposition that I am supporting it. I support it because I believe in it, and I shall prove that every Democrat must believe in it. Every law is compulsory. If you have no law, and no compulsion, every man becomes a law unto himself, and you have anarchy. Scientific anarchy may come by-and-by, when we are all perfect, and no man will need any law to control him. That is a considerable way off yet. All law is necessarily compulsion for the good of the whole people. Man has had to a certain extent to surrender his own personal liberty in order to attain the full liberty, well-being, and welfare of the whole of the people of the State. That is society as we know.it to-day. Seeing that all law is compulsion, are we, then, to stop short of compulsion when the chief end and the highest function of the State is at stake? Are we to stop short of compulsion there ? To those who say that compulsion is contrary to Labour principles, I would point out that I have been a unionist all my life. I have supported the ideals of unionism when we often had to starve for the faith that was in us, and when some of the men who are now talking so loudly were enjoying the fat of the land. It is absolute compulsion by starvation if you will not allow a man to work unless he joins your union. If he cannot get work he must either beg or starve. We believe in compulsion as applied to unionism, and justifiably so, because it is for the good of every one. It is better far that one should suffer than that the whole should be reduced to sweated and slavish conditions. We apply that compulsion to every walk of life. And yet we are to stop short at the chief end, the supreme function, of our national life, and to say, " Compulsion is good enough for everything else, but in respect of this, the supreme function of the State, it is not." 
I am in favour of the application of compulsion to this supreme national emergency, because I believe it is the fair way, the democratic way, and, above all, the socialistic way. When I hear men claiming to be Socialists, and. find that they are Socialists in everything but in respect of the supreme national function, which is defence of national life and integrity, I take leave to doubt if they understand what Socialism really is. 
All our misunderstanding and recrimination to-day is entirely due to the fact that we in Australia do not realize to the full that we are at war. Ninetenths of our people are going about  their  daily avocations in exactly the same way as if war were a thing unheard of. Our business people are more prosperous than ever. Our pastoralists, our mineowners, and others are drawing fatter prizes and bigger dividends; and our workers, I think, are as well off as ever they were. They are even better employed than they were in peaceful times. And so the people of Australia do not seem, to realize that we are at war. 
I have said that I am in favour of the method proposed by the Government because it is the fair way, the democratic way, and, above all, the socialistic way. I am not now approaching the consideration of this subject from the point of view as to whether more men are or are not necessary. That has absolutely nothing to do with the rights or wrongs of the question. The question we have to determine is what is the fair way, the democratic way, and the socialistic way. Dealing first of all with the fairness of the proposed ' system, let me say that I have before me a paragraph such as may be read every day in the week in any newspaper that one chances to pick up. This paragraph appeared in the Cairns  Times  of the 13th inst - the last issue to reach me. The Cairns  Times,  which is a Labour paper, and is opposed to conscription, published this paragraph, not with any scare headlines calling special attention to it, but as a mere matter of every-day news, and it is only a fair sample of others to be seen in every newspaper - 
During the week  Mr. J.  G. Hoare received word that his younger brother William had been killed in France. Deceased had been wounded in Gallipoli, and had been invalided to England previously.  Mr. J.  M. Bragg, of Charters Towers, who was recently in Cairns on a conference of the engine-drivers and firemen, received word when he arrived in Townsville from here, that his two sons, William and John, had been killed in France.  Mrs.  Marett,  of Stratford, has received word that her only son has been killed in France. 
That is what happens under the beautiful system of voluntarism. The first of these men, after bearing the brunt and heat of the fight at Gallipoli, was wounded and maimed, and then invalided to England. On being convalescent he was sent into the trenches in France and there was killed. He had to go twice to the front, was severely wounded, and finally was killed, while there are others who will not go at all. Then we have the case of the unionist returning from a conference with his brother unionists who receives word that two of his sons have been killed. Two brothers in the one family are killed, while other families, with four or five able-bodied sons, have not sent one to the front. Is there anything fair about that? Then we come to the concluding portion of the paragraph.  Mrs.  Marett,  of 'Stratford, hears that her only son has been killed in France. The only son of a widowed mother. And yet you talk of the beauties of your socalled voluntary system - a system which allows one man after being wounded at the front to go back again, only to lose his life; a system which allows one family to send two, four, and even five of its sons to the front, while other families, who have an equal right to share that burden, send none. Is there anything in the way of justice or fair play in that? I have travelled over a large part of Australia assisting in the recruiting movement. Wherever I went in Victoria I heard that the workers had volunteered freely. It is our proud boast, and a true one, that the unionist has come up with the most splendid courage, the most magnificent patriotism, and has volunteered for the front. We heard that wherever we went in Victoria. On the other hand, what did we hear of men who had property, who were well off, and, in fact, independent? We heard of welltodo farmers' sons - of families of four and five able-bodied sons of military age - not one of whom had volunteered. 
While at Daylesford I was told of a wealthy farmer with five sons of military age, and so well-to-do that he was able to keep a couple of motor cars. One of his sons was anxious to volunteer, but he was told by his father, "If you go you will never get a penny from me." This, then, is the beauty of your voluntary system ! 
I deny absolutely and completely that Australia has sent one man to the front. Australia has found the money - she has found the equipment and the pay - but as to sending a single man to the front, she has not done so. ' What has happened is that a great many Australians, to their eternal honour and credit, be it said, have done more than could be expected of them - have maintained the honour of Australia in their own persons, and have done for Australia what Australia has refused to do for herself. 
Let me come, now, to the next section of my question as to which is the democratic way. Democracy means, if it means anything, government of the people for the people and by the people. Democracy means that every man shall have equal rights, equal privileges, and equal opportunities. Does that not carry with it the absolute obligation, without question and without doubt, that every man must have equal responsibilities and an equal duty to share in all the burdens of his country? Does Democracy mean that it shall be the duty of only some men to fight for their country, for its liberties, and for the maintenance of its integrity - that it is only those who can be induced to volunteer who have that duty imposed upon them? If Democracy means that, then it is something  absolutely  contrary to any conception I have ever had of it. 
Let us examine for a moment the socialistic way. Socialism, if it means anything at all, means national organization for the carrying out of every national function. It means the Socialization of industry, and the Socialization of production and distribution for the benefit and welfare of the whole. It means organization full and complete in every walk of national life, every function of government, and every function for the welfare of the people. A socialistic State must have an organization thorough and complete, and in it the duty of every citizen must be fully recognised. It cannot be denied that the highest duty of any State is that of protecting itself from aggression. If that be so - and I challenge any one to deny it - must that duty fall  only  on some of the men of the State, and not upon the remainder ? Must it fall only on those high-minded and public-spirited citizens who will jump into the breach and say " We will fight," while other men skulk behind, in the hope of reaping fat profits or of getting comfortable jobs in the absence of the others who are sacrificing themselves ? There is absolutely nothing socialistic in that. Socialism means full and complete organization for this, the highest of all national purposes, just as it means complete organization for every other national purpose. Those persons who say they are Socialists, but oppose conscription, are in the ridiculous position of favoring individual effort and private enterprise for carrying out the highest national duty or function - individualism run mad ! I said a few moments ago, and I say now, that the highest and the supreme duty of a Democracy is that of protecting itself. Any Democracy which fails to do that will be wiped completely out of existence. 
We need only turn to the lessons of history for proof of that statement. I suppose most honorable senators have read that classic, Prescott's  Conquest of Peru.  Long before the discovery of the American Continent, the Peruvians had a civilization of a very high and complete order. They had a wonderful civilization, the remains of which even to-day astonish the archaeologists and the historians of the world. They had the most complete socialistic State the world has ever seen. They had secured this quite independently of European civilization, with which, as a matter of fact, they had had no connexion whatever. It was under a patriarchal form of government - what might be called a benevolent despotism. In taking care of the welfare of their people they fulfilled every complete function of government, with one exception, and that was that they neglected to provide for the defence of their country. Thus it was that when Pizarro went there with his handful of buccaneers and filibusters he conquered their country, although the people met him with outstretched arms and open hands. That socialistic people not only saw their Democracy destroyed and their socialistic State wiped out of existence, but the people themselves absolutely disappeared. Let me read to honorable senators one short passage, which they will find on pages 56 and 57 of the first volume. It shows the sort of society and people they were. Prescott says- 
If no man could become rich in Peru, no man could become poor. No spendthrift could waste his substance in riotous luxury. No adventurous schemer could impoverish his family by the spirit of speculation. The law was constantly directed to enforce a steady industry and a sober management of his affairs. No mendicant was tolerated in Peru. When a man was reduced by poverty or misfortune (it could hardly be by fault), the arm of the law was stretched out to minister relief; not the stinted relief of private charity, nor that which is doled out, drop by drop, as it were, from the frozen reservoirs of "the parish," but in generous measure, bringing no humiliation to the object of it, and placing him on a level with the rest of his countrymen. No man could be rich, no man could be poor, in Peru; but all might enjoy, and did enjoy, a competence. 
Where is that splendid civilization now? Where are the people? They are wiped out, because they would not take precautions to defend their country. I appeal to honorable senators to recognise and face the facts, for if we do not the same fate will overtake this splendid Democracy we have in Australia. 
Who is responsible for this war? Is Australia responsible? Is France responsible? Is little Belgium responsible? If we allow Australia to be conquered, those who say that they are opposed to compulsion, and will (have nothing to do with the accursed thing, will have to submit to the compulsion that was exercised over the women and children of France and Belgium, who were herded away in cattle-trucks to do the work of Germany. Will Australia take that risk? Will Democrats and Socialists take that risk? If so, I am not with them. The future of Australia is dearer to me than any consideration whatever. I would die a thousand deaths, suffer any torture - be hacked into a thousand pieces - lose a thousand seats in Parliament, do anything rather than take the risk of the children of Australia, including my own, enjoying one whit less of the advantages and opportunities of liberty than I have. 
We have heard all sorts of arguments and suggestions as to how we may avoid war. One, which is put forward seriously, is that we would never have war if we took  a referendum of the people before it was started. It is a very beautiful theory, but like ".the flowers that bloom in the spring," it has "nothing to do with the case." The absurdityof the argument can be seen in a moment. Suppose two nations have a quarrel, and they each decide to hold a referendum on the question whether they shall appeal to the dread arbitrament of war. One nation, feeling itself strong enough to conquer, declares in the affirmative, while the other, a peaceful people, vote in the negative. Does that stop the war? No. The most probable result is that the people who voted " No " will be destroyed. The people who say that they will have no war are like the ostrich, with his head in the sand ; they blind themselves to the facts and think the enemy is not there, with the result that he comes along, takes possession of them, and wipes them out. Then there is another point. It is a beautiful theory, but, again, like "the flowers that bloom in the spring," it has " nothing to do with the case." When you are attacked, are you going to take a referendum to decide whether you will fight? If a man comes up in the street and gives you a punch in the jaw, are you going to take a referendum with yourself as to whether you will return the blow? The whole idea is so absurd that I am consumed with wonder that people, ordinarily intelligent, should be blinded by prejudice and passion to such an extent that they cannot see the ridiculousness of the position. Other people, and very estimable and good people, say that they opposed to all war. 
Is the honorable senator opposed to all war? 
There is not a single person within the sound of my voice, not a single person in the world, even including  Senator Stewart,  who would be alive to-day were it not for a constant and successful war that is waged inside our own bodies by a standing army we maintain there. 
I shall come to that, and show the honorable senator the absurdity of his position. Every man has in his blood myriads of white corpuscles, whose work it is to preserve him against attack - to shield him from foreign invasion. Every day in the week, and every hour of the day, whether asleep or awake, we are being constantly assailed by myriads of hostile microbes, and it is the duty of the white corpuscles in the blood to be constantly on the watch and frustrate their efforts. You cannot prick your finger or skin anywhere in the slightest degree but myriads of these white corpuscles, which I maycall the army of the interior, immediately rush to the place to prevent any encroachment by the hostile invaders. Every drop of drink we take and every bit of food we eat contains those hostile microbes; and were it not for the "army of the interior" not one of us could live. If this " army of the interior," which exists in the body of the most ardent and fervent anticonscriptionists, were imbued with the same principles, and declared that it would not fight except on the voluntary system, the man who is opposed to all war would not live a single hour. If his descendants, as they probably would, had an army of the interior in their bodies imbued with the same doctrines their children could not live, and so with the nation. We are the army of the interior so far as the nation is concerned. If we will not fight to repel the invader we shall be wiped out as a nation. And our descendants will be degenerate, too. That is an illustration from nature. I defy the most eminent scientist or doctor you can get in Melbourne to deny the truth of it; and it is an absolute and complete answer to those who say that they are opposed to war. 
I am opposed to war, but I draw a distinction. I am opposed to all wars of attack, and in favour of all wars of defence, for a war of defence is a sacred war. We are now attacked and endangered; and if those to whom I have referred really believed the doctrines they enunciate, they ought to do exactly as I and others did at the time of the Boer war. I did not believe in that war. There was no question of conscription then, but there was the question of volunteers, and of finding moneys and supplies to maintain them. I was a member of the Queensland Parliament at the time, and on the floor of the House I opposed the voting of money, with the result that I lost my seat. I am prepared to bear the same fate now, but on the other side, for there is a mighty difference in the two cases. The Boer war was a war of attack, while the present war is one of defence; and I should like honorable senators to bear that distinction in mind when discussing the matter.- 
It has been said with a great deal of force that Australia has done enough, and that there is the greater necessity to keep men here in order to insure the economic and industrial well-being of Australia. It has been said that we have done as well as or better than Canada, and that all these are reasons why we should not do any more. Adverting to that illustration of mine with regard to how our bodies are preserved by an army we carry about with us, I would point out that if ever these beneficent white cor'puscles in the blood came to the conclusion that they had done enough we would be " down and out " in five minutes. 
Let me deal with those arguments seriatim. I give honorable senators full credit for being absolutely sincere in all the arguments they put forward. But while sincerity is a good excuse for them and an absolute justification of their attitude, it is no solution of the question. Byron, in speaking of the sincerity of good people, said - 
Christians have burnt each other quite persuaded 
That the Apostles would have done as they did. 
Was it any consolation to the people who were murdered that their murderers were sincere and actuated by the highest and best motives? The sincerity of the murderers was nothing to them. While I am prepared to give credit for sincerity of motive, as every one must do in this chamber, I say, as a reasonable, and reasoning being, that we ought to face the facts squarely, and, having examined them, come to the logical conclusion to which every intellectual man must come when he is faced by a problem so easy of solution. 
The danger to Australia from Germany was undeniable, and it was only the prudence and foresight of previous Governments here that protected us from all the horrors of war. At the outbreak of the war we had a hostile German Navy in the Pacific, and it was only the fact that we had one battleship and three or four cruisers, which were sufficiently strong to keep the hostile vessels away from our shores, that averted those horrors. If the Germans had only effected a landing, and had been able to put into the hands of certain people in Australia at the time, a quantity of arms and ammunition, God knows what our fate might have been. Do not forget that in every part of Australia there is a trained military garrison of the enemy only waiting for organization and arms to begin. Never forget that fact, which was boasted about by the Germans, as my honorable friends from Queensland and others know as well as I do. 
I shall come to that matter directly. There is another argument - that we have something to fear at the hands of other alien enemies. It is very true that there are constant dangers and menaces threatening Australia, and it would be idle to deny the fact. But one way to secure safety and immunity is to win the present war. We could then defy all the dangers and menaces from any direction; whereas if the enemy wins the war, there is nothing we can do, though we resolve to perish to a man, that can save us. 
I speak seriously and I speak warmly, because I feel warmly. Australia is everything to me; all I possess and all that is dear to me is here. The country itself is dear to me - dearer than any other country in the world, with the exception of the land of my birth. I am not prepared to, and I will not, take the risk of danger, misfortune, and slavery overtaking this country that I love so well, and in which the future of my children is bound up. 
Another argument I wish to deal with is that advanced by our anti-conscriptionist friends when they say that the State has no right over a man's body, and, therefore, no right to say, " You shall go and fight for the country." I say that the State has that right, full, absolute, and complete, or else it has the further right to say to a man, ' ' If you will not be faithful to your duties as a citizen in a country which is so good to you, and offers you such splendid opportunities, then clear out of the country. If it is not good enough to fight for, it is not good enough to live in." I ask those who put forward this argument to say whether the State has any right to supply any men with munitions, or other means to protect his body, if his body will do nothing to protect itself. What right has the Senate to vote money to send any man to protect another who will do nothing to protect himself ? 
Some honorable senators say that they would not send a single man to the front, and would not assist or encourage men to go, but they overlook the fact that they have incurred the responsibility of sending them to the front by voting the money required for that pur pose. If they were really sincere in their opposition to military service and the compulsory power for which the Government are now asking, they would have refused to vote a single shilling for such a purpose. Our good friends the Quakers, the Christadelphians, and others say, " We are opposed to all war. Even if the country is attacked, we deny your right to compel a single man to fight in its defence." I can understand their attitude. I could understand the attitude of any member of the Senate who said he was opposed to all war, but how those who believe in national organization for national defence can at the same time believe in voluntary defence is something that no one can understand. 
Compulsory military service is the law of the Commonwealth, and has been its law since we have had a Commonwealth. Every labour man has subscribed to that. We have boasted about it and gloried in it. We have said, " This is one of our achievements." We have said this upon the platform, and have called upon the people to admire us because we did this glorious thing. Now when the test comes we say we are in favour of it only for home defence. I want to ask: Where does home defence begin and end ? Those who say they will give the State no rights over the body of any man for foreign service have already given the State a right over the body of every man within Australia, and in our territorial waters, that is, up to 3J miles beyond our coasts. 
I shall come to that if the honorable senator will allow me. I ask how it can be said that we have a right to control the body of a man for the defence of the country within the country, and miles from its coast, within our territorial waters, and then stop short and say, "You should not go one yard beyond that?" Must we wait to fight until our women are outraged, violated, and murdered, and our little children spitted on bayonets before our eyes ? Why, even an old hen would fight under these circumstances. If honorable senators admit the right to take a man 1 yard beyond 3^ miles from our coast they admit the right to take him 1,000 ir 10,000 miles beyond that limit. Where are we to stop ? 
What is the chief advantage which Germany possesses in this war ? It is that the horrors of the war have been kept outside her own borders. It is that none of her people have suffered any of the horrors, tortures, and miseries inflicted by the war actually in their presence. That is also the chief advantage which Australia possesses, and we have reason to be everlastingly grateful that that is so. The horrors- of the war are kept away from our own borders, but that is not due to any effort of ours as a nation. It is due to the heroic efforts of the splendid men who have recognised their duty as citizens, and have gone to fight for us. If we enjoy safety in Australia, I remind the opponents of conscription that we owe that safety to the conscript armies of our Mother Country and her Allies. Are we going to exact sacrifices from them in which we are unwilling to share, and to enjoy security purchased by conscription by them when we will not have conscription ourselves? 
On this question I refer honorable senators to  Mr. W.  Winwood Reade, and what he has to say in his  Martyrdom of Man,  a classic which every Labour man ought' to read. He points out that mankind in all ages have  suffered  in order that mankind may progress. Are we to be the only people who refuse to contribute our share of suffering in order that mankind may progress? I am at a loss to understand the attitude taken up by some people, and I feel that were it not for the prejudice and passion that seem to govern them now, and blow out the light of reason, not one of them would assume such an attitude. Conscription in France, Belgium, Great Britain, and the other allied countries preserves for us the rights and the liberties we enjoy. 
There are three courses open to us in dealing with this matter. The first is to let the liberty and integrity of Australia take care of themselves - to let them go hang. That is unthinkable. I do not think that a single individual in Australia would listen to such a proposition for a single moment. Another alternative is that we should rely upon the conscripted armies of other countries to preserve our liberty and integrity; and the third course open to us is, while relying on them to help us to maintain our liberty and integrity, that we, at the same time, like manly men, should do our share. 
That is the third alternative, and the one which Australia, if we are to preserve . our independence and self-respect, must take. It is seriously put forward that no effort on the part of Australia can make any difference in the result of the war. Our friend  Senator Findley  told us that the war is already won, and  Senator Guy  said that if Australia never sent a single man to the front, the Allies would still secure the victory. 
It is true that the honorable senator said that later, but he also said, " The war is won now." 
It does not matter, so far as final victory is concerned. I believe, also, that it does not matter; but is Australia, this manly young nation, of whose honour and glory we are proud to boast, and the manly qualities of whose people we claim to be equal to' those of any other people in the world, to occupy the position of a loafer, and let  other  nations make the supreme sacrifice while she makes none? I feel ashamed thai such an argument should be put forward by any manly man. 
Again, we are confronted with the comparison with Canada. Must Australian manhood, spirit, daring, and patriotism be measured b)' the manhood, spirit, daring, and patriotism of any other country in the world ? I deny it. I absolutely decline to take the standard of any other nation for Australia. We have put up a standard of our own in a hundred directions, and we should put up our own standard in this case. We are told that what is good enough for Canada is good enough for Australia. That is the cry of anticonscriptionists all round the country. It might come very well from our Liberal and Conservative friends, but it cannot come with consistency or logic from our Labour friends. Canada has not established old-age pensions. Is what is good enough for Canada in that particular direction good enough for Australia? Canada has none of our splendid industrial laws and legislative machinery for protecting an3 alleviating the condition of the workers, or, at least, she has nothing in that direction in any way comparable with what we have. Is what is good enough for Canada really good enough for Australia? Will any man who subscribes to Labour doctrines for a single moment assert such a belief as that? Australia has standards of her own that are the envy of the whole of the civilized people of the world, and are pointed to with pride by reformers in every section of the earth. Yet in this supreme matter of preserving the splendid structure of Democracy that we have built up in Australia, we are told that we should accept the standards of other countries. Itf Canada had never sent a single man, it would in no way alter my view as to what we in Australia should do. I say that Australia will never have done enough until the war is won. That is the measure of the time when we shall have done enough. 
We are asked what is to become oF our economic and industrial life, and of all the splendid industries we have built up? I say that it does not matter a straw to us what becomes of them if Australia is conquered. Apparently, that is a risk which some honorable senators would take, however sincerely patriotic we may admit them to be. I say here again, that I do not care a button about their sincerity. What I am concerned about is the effect of the policy they advise, and their sincerity will be no excuse to Australia if, as the result of their advice, we should lose our liberty, integrity, and independence. So much for that aspect of the argument about Canada. 
There is another aspect of it to which I direct the attention of honorable senators, and that is that Canada is not in nearly the same danger as Australia, and is not running anything like the same risk in this war. As compared with the position which Australia occupies, Canada can afford to sit back and smile. She is sheltered by the broad wing of the Monroe doctrine. She is sheltered by the fact that along 3,000 miles of her border line she has a neighbouring nation of 100,000,000 of people. She is sheltered by the fact that the whole broad Atlantic lies between her and any possible enemy, and on the other side by a nation that has said " Hands off " to every nation in the world. If England were conquered to-morrow, have we any such protection for Australia? Honorable senators know that we have not. Suppose for a moment that the war should unfortunately go against us, and that England were beaten to her knees. Suppose that the prize, or a portion of the prize, demanded for the settlement of the war was the handing over of Australia to Germany. What could Great Britain do? It would cut her to the heart to give up a possession which is so dear to her, and where her children have been striving to build uo a new nation under the Southern Cross. But is Australia any dearer to Great Britain than Alsace and Lorraine were to Prance at the close of the war of 1870 ? Yet France had to give up those two beloved provinces to satisfy the rapacious maw of Germany at the conclusion of that war. If England were beaten to her knees, and that alternative were put to her, what could she do but accede to the demand. Where would Australia be then ? Where would our anticonscriptionist friends be then ? They would be hiding their diminished heads in the gullies up the bush and in every remote corner of the country they could get to, because when they looked in the face the little children whom they deceived and betrayed, their responsibility and shame would be so great that they would be objects of pity to every one in the world. 
I hope that such a fate will never overtake Australia, and I am sure that the most ardent anti-conscriptionist cherishes the same hope. It is for this reason we should be prepared for the national sacrifice which every nation must ultimately be prepared to make to preserve its liberty, or it must go down. 
I want to point out now that conscription is not, and never was, in its origin, a Conservative device. Conscription had its genesis in the revolution of France. When she found herself opposed by a combination of all the powers of Europe, France adopted that method of organization to preserve the liberty for which she had sacrificed so much. That system of the national organization is now known as conscription. By it .France, now honoured by the liberty-loving nations of the world, has been able to maintain her position in the face of the fiercest onslaughts of despotism to this day. Another Democrat upon whom we look with admiration was Abraham Lincoln, who, using conscription as the instrument, freed the slaves of North America. And yet opponents endeavour now to persuade us that conscription is not democratic. Why, it is the logical working of the democratic movement, and the several examples I have quoted, all show clearly and unmistakably that it is the very essence of Democracy. If it be the duty of a country to defend itself, it must be the duty of every individual in that country, and not the duty of only a section of the people, to take part in its defence. _ 
What position do we find ourselves in now under the present vaunted voluntary system ? We find that while it may be exercised against a poor man, its pressure is not necessarily felt by the wealthy man. It has been stated over and over again that in some instances young men, unable to obtain work, have had no other alternative but to offer their services. Thousands of working men who should not have been asked, have been obliged to go to the front, while thousands who should have been sent there have stayed at home in luxury and comfort. That is the position under this so-called voluntary system. Under it you have unfair conscription by the employers. What we advocate is fair discharge of national obligations by a system of national service under the Government chosen by the whole people. 
I come now to another argument, which I suppose has some force and more weight with those who are opposed to conscription in the ranks of Labour. It is an argument which, however, lacks force or logic and reasoning, and it should carry no weight with those who desire the welfare of our race. It is that conscription for military service means also conscription for industrial service. Let us examine that argument for a moment. I am not concerned with the Bill itself at all. I have not discussed the measure, and I am not discussing it now, except as a means for national service in our hour of national need. I do not care a straw about the Bill, for I believe it will not affect the situation one way or the other, but I am concerned with the righteousness of the principle for which I am contending. Those who argue that under this Bill conscription for military service means also conscription for industrial ser vice, cannot be sincere, or else they would not entertain the argument which has been put forward, because the Bill distinctly says that the Government are only asking for authority to conscript for military service and for the term of the present war. Those who persist in maintaining any other view are only begging the question, or else are looking for excuses to justify their attitude. 
Let me reply to my honorable friend's interjection. I would point out to him that conscription under a despotism and conscription under a Democracy are two and entirely different things. Conscription under a Democracy cannot be enforced against the wishes of the people, but under a despotism the people would not be asked; the system would be put into operation with a gun and at the point of the bayonet. Do those people who argue that, under this Bill, conscription for military service means also conscription for industrial service bear in mind that the people of Australia are in the enjoyment of a splendid franchise? Do. they bear in mind the fact that our free political institutions make the humblest woman who toils at the wash-tub the equal, politically, of the grandest lady in the land, and the man who sweeps the streets the equal, from a political point of view, of the millionaire? If they remember this can they seriously contend that, under this Bill, conscription for industrial service will follow on the conscription for military service? Such a position will never be reached while Democracy remains. Before that state of affairs can be brought about Democracy will have to be destroyed. In this country of free civil government the people are kings and queens; they can make and unmake governments, and no law can be forced upon them against their will. If any Government dared to attempt the conscription of men for industrial services they would be ejected from office in the shortest possible time. 
I have sufficient faith in the Democracy of Australia to say that an argument of that kind is merely begging the question, and an attempt to draw a red herring across the trail. 
I am not sufficiently acquainted with the circumstances to say anything about that; but if the men referred to were conscripted for national defence, I have no quarrel or fault to find with the Government. 
I will be better able to speak on that subject when I have looked a little more closely into the facts. The Minister for Defence says one thing, and the honorable senator says another. I do not want any man to be asked by this or any other Government to work for less than the full value of the service he renders. I never did. The State ought to "be an ideal employer, and give the best conditions in all its occupations. 
Yes; and I am sorry to say that, in certain quarters, the State does not receive that generous recognition it has a right to expect from some people who are employed in the Public Service. The State is entitled to expect good service from its employees. 
I do not know that I have a very great deal more to say, but I must not forget to deal, however briefly, with another matter that has occupied public attention lately. It has been frequently stated in this chamber during the course of this debate, and elsewhere, that all the Labour organizations outside are against this projected action. It is said with considerable force and truth that instructions have been issued by the  organizations of the different States directing Federal Labour members how they shall vote in connexion with this referendum. I am speaking now, not only as a senator representing Queensland, but also as  president  of the highest political body in Australia - the Inter-State Executive - and I say that no State organization or executive has the right or authority to issue any such instructions, and that the organizations which fathered the instructions have usurped functions and authority which they do not possess. 
The conduct of Labour politics in the Federal arena would be impossible if the present condition of affairs were allowed to continue, and be justified. 
I am going to put the question as I would put it in my judicial position. I do not want to stretch a point in my favour, or in favour of anybody else. This question of conscription was not discussed at the last Inter-State Conference. There was a discussion as to which was the proper body to enforce the binding decisions of that conference, and to interpret the platform or questions affecting the platform, and give a decision thereon. I am going to tell the Senate exactly what occurred, for there is no secret about it. Everybody knows what was done at that Conference, because, although it was confidential at the time it was discussed, the information has since been published. At the Inter-State Conference, there was a suggestion to create an Inter-State Executive to discharge the functions I have referred to, and to decide what the party action should be on them. Against this course, it was pointed out with force that a scheme of that kind would be unworkable; that the proper thing to do was, as has always been done, to leave the interpretation of the Labour platform and policy, as well as all questions of fact, in the hands of the Federal Labour members, who could consult and discuss together the various political questions as they arose. It was further agreed that every Federal Labour member was to be bound by the majority decision of the properly constituted Labour Caucus. In addition an Inter-State Executive was created, whose function was to give effect to the binding decisions of the Conference. At the meeting of the 
Inter-State Executive it was unanimously resolved, on the motion of an anticonscriptionist,  Mr. McCallum,  of Western Australia, and seconded also by an anticonscriptionist in the person of  Mr.  Lutey  - 
That each State Executive be informed that the decision of any Conference other than the Inter-State Conference of the Australian Labour party shall not be binding on the Federal Labour party or the Commonwealth Government unless indorsed by such Inter-State Conference. 
That motion was carried in pursuance of the power and authority of the InterState Executive to give effect to the binding decisions of the Conference. Where, in that resolution, is the authority giving the various State executives the prerogative to issue instructions to this Parliament, and to expel members because they will not do their bidding? There would be an end to all solidarity in this party if such a state of affairs were allowed to continue. If we are to have a Federal Labour party, the members of which are subject to six warring and contrary instructions from the several State executives, there can be no cohesion, no co-ordination of action, no unity, and no solidarity in the movement, and we can have nothing in the way of effective legislation or reform in this country. 
I say, having regard to past experience, that if any branch Labour League in any State were to set itself up as superior to the central State Executive, and as having the right to issue orders to its own particular Labour member for that district without the authority of the executive for the whole State, that branch would be immediately declared bogus and expelled, the only course which could be followed if we are to have solidarity, and to effect any useful purpose! The argument has been dragged into this debate that Labour members and senators are bound. I say they are bound only by the one pledge to carry out the wishes of the supreme Labour authority in Australia when those wishes have been properly ascertained and expressed. They cannot be loyal to two institutions at one and the same time. If that were expected of them, what sort of position would we have in this Senate? A Labour senator from Queensland who voted for the second reading of this Bill would be anathema; he would have committed the unpardonable sin, and probably would be cast out of the State organization; whilst Labour senators from Western Australia, Tasmania, South Australia, and, in some instances, from Victoria and New South Wales would be perfectly honest, loyal, faithful, and worthy members of the Labour party. Such a position would be impossible, and it could be advocated only by men who have given no consideration to the subject, because I cannot imagine any intelligent being giving adhesion to anything so absurd. 
I thank honorable senators for the courtesy and consideration they have shown me in the very unusual departure I have . made in addressing the Senate while  ocupying  the position of  President.  This is the first occasion on which I have trespassed in this fashion, and it was only the supreme gravity of the question that made me depart from that salutary rule that the  President,  occupying, as he does, a semijudicial position, shall not take part in debate. It has been to me a painful and horrifying thought that Australia might be lightly sacrificed because we failed to be fully seized of our duty. I am prepared to repeat on any platform in Australia that I will never send a man to the front to fight for the existence and the integrity of Australia, » and to run the risk of losing his life, when I am afraid to lose my seat in Parliament. I would lose a thousand seats in Parliament rather than that even a risk should be taken that my child, and the other children whose well-being is all in all to every father and mother, shall enjoy the liberties and benefits of our Democracy one whit less than we enjoy them to-day. What does it matter to me, or any of us who have reached advanced age, what becomes of us for the few remaining years of our lives? We have lived full lives, and we have enjoyed all the advantages that Australia could give us - they have been many and great. We are grateful to the people of Australia, and we should be recreant to our duty if we weighed the remainder of our lives as even the weight of a straw in the balance against the future well-being of Australia and its people. Noble sons of Australia are fighting, suffering, and dying to preserve to us the freedom, happiness, and prosperity which we enjoy. The tree of liberty is being nourished by their blood, and is being watered by the tears of their suffering womenkind. Let us prove worthy of their heroic and supreme sacrifice, and let us pray that we, too, may in this great crisis in the history of our country acquit ourselves as men, so that this loved Australia in which we live may have no reason to be other than proud of the stand we take. 
SenatorPEARCE (Western Australia -Minister for Defence) [12.20].- I do not desire to traverse the very excellent speeches that have been made, but 1 wish to extend to those who have taken an opposite view to myself my congratulations upon the tone of their addresses, upon the restraint they have exercised, and upon the absence of recrimination throughout the debate. Naturally I have disagreed from the views they have put forward. I think those honorable senators are on false ground, that they are mistaken; but, at the same time, I wish to say that, although I have been a member of the Senate from its establishment, I have never heard, in the whole of that period, a debate that has approached the level of that on this Bill for the serious and thoughtful way in which honorable senators on both sides of the question have dealt with it, and their restraint. May I add,  Sir, that  I think your speech was a fitting close tosuch a debate? Every honorable senator has been given full opportunity to express his opinion on the Bill, the principles it contains, and what will follow as the result of the passing of the Bill. It is known that many honorable senators desire to leave this afternoon for other States, and I appeal to the Senate for an opportunity for the Bill to pass before the departure of the trains. It must be recognised that the Bill is of a machinery character, and, if the principle be affirmed on the second reading, it should not take long to pass the measure through all other stages. I wish to thank honorable senators for the way in which the debate has been conducted. 
I wish to move to strike out the words "Military Service Referendum Act," which is the title by which the Act may be cited, with a view to substituting the words " An Act to save the Hughes Ministry from destruction." 
I must rule the amendment out of order as irrelevant to the provisions of the Bill. 
.- Parliament has not been flouted. It was necessary to issue the proclamation on the 18th September in order that the referendum might be taken on the 28th 
October, and the clause will validate our action. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 2 and 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 (Issue of writ for referendum). 
It is provided in the clause that if at the expiration of sixty days from the date of issue of the writ, the Chief Electoral Officer certifies that he is satisfied that not more than 2 per cent. of the total votes polled are still awaiting scrutiny, and that their exclusion cannot affect the result of the referendum, he may return the writ. Why has it been decided not to wait for 2 per cent. of votes which may not have been scrutinized instead of 1 per cent. or 4 per cent. ? On the basis of the polling at the last general election 2 per cent. of the votes polled would number 56,230. It might happen that the exclusion of 4 per cent. of votes would still leave a big enough majority to determine the issue. It seems to me that if the Chief Electoral Officer were in a position to state definitely that there is a majority exclusive of any percentage of votes awaiting scrutiny, he might return the writ. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 5 and 6 agreed to. 
Clause 7 (Application of Referendum Constitution Alteration Act). 
It is provided that the disqualification from voting at the referendum shall not apply to any naturalized British subject, wherever born, who produces to the presiding officer " a certificate signed by the District Commandant of the Military District, or an officer thereto authorized by him, that that person is a parent of a person who has been or is a member of the Forces." That provision was not in the Bill as introduced in another place, and I should like some explanation of it. 
.- The Bill as originally introduced disqualified naturalized persons born in countries with which the Empire is now at war ; but it was pointed out that many such persons had sons serving at the wax, or had lost sons on active service, and that therefore they should not be denied the right to vote at this referendum. The sons of these persons will have the right to vote, and it seems fair that the fathers should also be able to vote. There was some difference of opinion on the proposal, but I think that in the majority of cases the sending of a son to fight for the Empire is pretty reliable evidence of the loyalty of the father. 
I do not object to the provision, but there are other persons who, it seems to me, are as much entitled to the privilege of voting at the referendum as those covered by the provisions to which I have referred. For a long while it was the practice of the Defence Department not to accept the son of a naturalized enemy subject. I know a man who was born a Dane in Schleswig, and was a lad when, in 1864, the Prussians took that duchy from Denmark. At the time he was not old enough to understand what was happening, but what he saw of the ravages of the war burned itself into his brain. As soon as he was able to shift for himself, with a hatred for Prussianism which none of us can feel, he quitted his country for Australia. Upon his arrival here he started to earn his livelihood, and has been a reputable citizen ever since. Some time ago his son desired to enlist, and came to the city for that purpose. Certain questions were put to him which he answered truthfully, with the result that he was told that the authorities did not require his services. Why should the father of that young man be disqualified from voting at the forthcoming referendum? Our casualty lists show that there are quite a number of young men born in Australia, but whose parents are of enemy origin, who have offered to make the supreme sacrifice, if necessary, on behalf of the Allied cause. Nevertheless, large numbers of them have been rejected. I wish to cite another instance in that connexion. A friend of mine enlisted, and entered a training camp. He is an Englishman who married an Australian girl whose parents were Germans. As the result of his marriage he had become acquaintedwith quite a number of persons throughout the State from which he hailed. After his enlistment he wrote to some of his friends, and two of them,  both young Australian natives, endeavoured to follow his example. The father of one of them happened to be a German. This volunteer was accepted and the other was told that his services were not required. It seems to me that under this clause we shall, in many cases, be doing an injustice to parents whose sons were quite prepared to fight for the Empire. 
Yes. I know that during the past few weeks the regulations have been relaxed to the extent that if an Australian native, whose parents were born in an enemy country, volunteers for service, he will be accepted so long as the recruiting committee in the district from which he hails is able to vouch for his loyalty. But the fact remains that the services of a very large number of young men who volunteered have been rejected because their parents are of enemy origin. Now those parents are to be disfranchised at the forthcoming referendum, and at the same time these young men will be liable to be conscripted. 
It is, and it is one which will cause considerable  bitterness  in the minds of many persons who are thoroughly loyal to Australia, and whose sons have volunteered for service. 
.- I have no doubt whatever that no matter how this . clause is drafted some hardship will be inflicted under its operation. Much as I would like to meet the cases mentioned by  Senator Turley  I do not see how that can be done without nullifying the provision entirely. 
I can assure  Senator Turley  that this question was considered by the Government, and that we endeavoured to find a way out of the difficulty, but were unable to do so. I am sorry that I cannot meet the honorable senator. 
There is a big principle involved in this clause to which I would direct the attention of the Minister. In it there is, in my opinion, a distinct departure from the spirit of the Constitution. I am not going to argue whether the policy of the Government, as expressed in the clause, is good or bad. It is possible that they have done the best they could under the circumstances. But I am inclined to think that if they observe the spirit of the Constitution it is not within their competence to disfranchise any section of the community. Section 41 of the Constitution provides - 
No adult person who has or acquires a right to vote at elections for the more numerous House of the Parliament of a State shall, while the right continues, be prevented by any law of the Commonwealth from voting at elections for either House of the Parliament of the Commonwealth. 
I am quite prepared to admit that under this Bill no person will be deprived of his right to vote at an election for either House of this Parliament. But many people will be deprived of their right to vote at a referendum. The spirit of the Constitution undoubtedly is that where a man or woman has the right to vote at an election for members of this Parliament, they impliedly have the right to vote at a referendum. To my mind, that was the intention of the framers of the Constitution. If any authority can deprive these persons of that right it is the State Parliaments, and not the Commonwealth. It may be rather an anomaly that the States should be superior to the Commonwealth, especially in a time of grave crisis. But there is the Constitution on the matter, and while I recognise the position of the Government, I question their power, if they respect the spirit of the Constitution, to do what they propose to do. 
Section 41 of the Constitution obviously applies to elections for this Parliament. Now, this Bill does not relate to an election, but to a referendum, and it is not a referendum which is provided for in the Constitution. It is a special referendum.  Senator Mullan  has argued that if certain persons had not a direct right to vote at the approaching referendum, they have the implied right. But if he is going to rest his case upon an implied right he must have some regard for the military position. The defence of the Commonwealth is something more than an implied right - it is an obligation. Whilst there may be an implied right on the part of these persons to vote, there is an obliga-  tion thrown upon the Government to exercise our defence powers, and in the exercise of those powers we have framed this provision. 
I recognise the difficulties with which the Government are confronted. But this is a matter involving the exercise of the franchise, and it would be a bad precedent to allow a provision like that under consideration to pass without some such explanation. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 8 - 
The Governor-Genera^ or any person authorized by him, may appoint one scrutineer at each polling place, and at each place where the scrutiny is conducted, in the Commonwealth, and the person who in the opinion of the Chief Electoral Officer is authorized by a majority of those members of both Houses of the Parliament who are not in favour of the prescribed question may appoint one scrutineer at each such polling place and place. 
I think that this clause ia clumsily drafted, inasmuch as it provides that the scrutineers employed must be authorized so to act by a majority of members of both Houses of this Parliament. I think that any person who is authorized so to act by any member of this Parliament should be a scrutineer. At an election for this Parliament any scrutineer's form signed by any candidate entitles such scrutineer to obtain admission to the polling booth, and to act in that capacity. It is ridiculous to say that a majority of members of both Houses of this Parliament should be required to authorize a scrutineer to act. Why should not any honorable senator be able to authorize a person to act as scrutineer? 
In my opinion, the Government ought to pay them. 
The Deputy Returning Officer would allow only such persons to act as were necessary. 
 Senator Barnes  ia really fighting a shadow. What happens at an election for this Parliament? Any honorable senator has a right to authorize a person to act as a scrutineer, and that is practically what will happen in this case. Any person who, in the opinion of the Chief Electoral Officer, is authorized by a majority of those members of both Houses of Parliament who are not in favour of the question that is being submitted to the people, may appoint one scrutineer at each polling place. In actual practice, any one of the members of Parliament opposed to the question may appoint scrutineers. Who would be likely to object? The Chief Electoral Officer would not object so long as he was satisfied that the member was authorized by a majority of those members of Parliament who are opposed to the question to be submitted to the people. 
At the last election there was no difficulty in regard to the issue of scrutineers' forms. In that case each candidate was authorized to issue the necessary authority. In this case the only thing necessary will be the approval of the Chief Electoral Officer in regard to the person who is intrusted with the task of issuing these forms by the majority of members of Parliament opposed to the question on which the referendum is to be taken. Any dispute amongst those opposed to the Bill as to who shall be the person empowered to issue the authorities to scrutineers must be settled by the majority of those members of both Houses who are not in favour of the question. Clearly, the Government could not act as the umpire on such a matter, nor could the Chief Electoral Officer. The provision has been carefully thought out with the view to avoiding trouble. Any member who is opposed to the question that is to be submitted to the people may be selected by the majority of the representatives of a State who are opponents of the question for the purpose of issuing; scrutineers' authorities in his State. if all the representatives of any particular State are supporting the question that is being submitted, then the majority of the representatives of all the States who are opposing the question may appoint some person to issue the forms for that State. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 9 (Additional questions to be submitted to electors). 
Will the Minister explain what procedure is followed in dealing with indorsed ballot-papers which are put into separate envelopes? Is the name of the person who asks for the ballot-paper placed upon the envelope in which the ballot-paper is enclosed ? How can the tribunal which is to be appointed recognise the ballot-paper when the question of the right of the voter has been referred to it? 
There will be an envelope as in the case of the absent vote. The name of the voter will appear on the envelope, but the ballot-paper will not be opened. If questions as to the right of an elector to vote are to be decided as the voting proceeds there will be tremendous delay. Therefore, the ballot-paper is enclosed in an envelope, which is placed in a separate box and afterwards investigated by the prescribed tribunal. The envelope is investigated, but the ballot-paper remains unopened, and if the person is found to be entitled to a vote it is dropped into the box containing the valid ballot-papers. 
They are to be provided for by regulation, but it is contemplated that they will be constituted by stipendiary magistrates. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 10 and 11 agreed to. 
Clause 12 - 
The Governor-General may make .... such regulations as are in his opinion necessary or expedient for the purpose of providing a system or systems whereby - 
members of the crew of any Australian transport vessel employed in the conveyance of members of the Forces to or from Australia may vote at the referendum. 
I move as an amendment - 
That in paragraph (6) the words "Australian transport vessel employed in the conveyance of members of the Forces " be struck out and "vessel trading" inserted in lieu thereof. 
This will widen the scope of the clause, and not confine the opportunity to vote to crews of transports. 
I hope the honorable senator will not press the amendment. There are two classes bf vessel - the interned enemy vessel not used as a transport but for trading purposes, and those used as transports. We can give this special provision to transports, because they all carry officers under the control of the Commonwealth. The others do not. If we extend it to enemy ships used for mercantile purposes, we ought to extend it to all trading ships. The Government do not see their way to do that. Our own officers can be penalized if they do not regard the conditions we lay down as regards voting ; the others cannot in the same way. The other ships are not entirely left out, as the ordinary Electoral Act provisions apply to them, and there have been no complaints on that ground at previous elections. That Act provides that at .any time within six weeks after the issue of a writ, if any of these ships comes into port and the crew are entitled to vote, they can record an absent vote. This clause applies the provisions of the Electoral Act to the referendum, so that the crews of any ships that are in port, or come here within the six weeks, can record an absent vote. 
Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
What motive actuated the Government in not giving a vote to all members of the Australian Imperial Force regardless of their age ? Why did they not include those under twenty-one in paragraph  a  of this clause ? If a young man is good enough to fight for his country, he ought to be good enough to vote on this question. I realize that probably the majority of these men may vote conscription, but, although an anti-conscriptionist, I would give them the right to vote at the referendum. 
My heart goes with the honorable senator, but my reason is against him. If I agreed to do what he says, we should have to give the vote to returned men under twenty-one years old now in Australia. We should also give it to rejected volunteers under twenty-one, and to others who have been prevented as munition workers from enlisting. The alteration would really involve the question whether the voting age should be reduced. It would be better to do that, if it is to be done, in a general measure than piecemeal. 
Clause agreed to. 
Schedule and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Motion (by  Senator Pearce)  proposed - 
That this Bill be now read a third time. 
 Senator Henderson, Chairman  of Committees, was unable, through illness, to be present, and record his vote in favour of this Bill. He desired me particularly to get the fact that his vote would be for the Bill if he were present stated. I wish to state that through no fault of his own his vote was not able to be recorded. 
 I was unable to secure a pair for him.  Senator Long  was called away to Tasmania and is supporting the Bill, and  Senator O'Loghlin,  who also intended to vote for the Bill, writes me that he cannot be present, as he is leaving on active service. 
 If  Senator Henderson  wanted to be carried here on his bed he would get here. Not to grant him a pair so that he could record his vote was not playing the game, and I am certain  Senator Henderson  will stand up to it when he knows what has happened. 
 I desire to complete a. statement that I was proceeding to make on the motion for the third reading of the Military Service Referendum Bill when I was prevailed upon by the Minister for Defence to resume my seat. During the debate on that Bill we heard the statement repeated  ad nauseam  by those who are opposed to conscription that they object to conscript human life. And yet, when a sick comrade was lying close at hand, too ill to attend to take part in the division, although he would have dearly loved to do so,those very men who talk about the sacredness of human life, and would not have it subjected to any risk, would have had that' comrade endanger his life by coming here to record his vote. They would not extend to him the courtesy of giving him a pair. They would not play the game. These men, who talk about the sacredness of human life, and say they object to any man being called upon to risk his life, would have allowed a comrade - my comrade,  Senator George  Henderson - to risk his own life by attending here, rather than give him a pair. On his behalf I enter this my final protest, and say that it is not playing the game. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at  1.32  p.m. (Saturday). 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether the Government will take into consideration the advisableness of appointing a Royal Commission to inquire as to the whereabouts of  Senator Bakhap  ? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs noticed a statement in the press to the effect that ninety-six or ninetyeight Maltese have arrived in Australia ? If so, has he any information bearing on the rumour that some of these Maltese are on their way to Tasmania, and that the remainder are going to New South Wales? Have these men come to Australia under contract or as free men ? 
If the honorable senator will give notice of his question full information will be supplied to him. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister say whether, under the Alien Immigration Restriction Act, Maltese are absolutely debarred from entering the Commonwealth? 
Just so; the same as any Britisher. 
I wish to ask the Minister for Defence a question without notice in view of what was contained in a statement which I propose to read from a Western Australian newspaper? 
Order! It is not in accordance with my ruling that an honorable senator, in asking a question, should read a statement appearing in the press. 
The whole question of exemptions will be dealt with by the Courts under regulations, which it is expected will be issued within the next few days. 
None, except those provided for under the Act, and in the regulations framed under the Act.  All  applying to be exempt must come before the examination Courts to establish their claim to exemption. 
Should the conscription referendum be carried  in  the affirmative, the Government will have the power, should they deem it necessary, to call up men for service oversea between the ages of eighteen and sixty.  Will  the Minister for Defence give  an  assurance that single men between the ages of eighteen and twenty-one years will not be called up? 
 Not in any circumstances ? 
Will  the  Minister  for Defence say whether the Government have given any further consideration to the representations made in the Senate during the debate on the second reading of the Military Service Referendum Bill, as to the constitution of the appeal Courts proposed by the Government in that Bill ?  Is  it their intention to adhere to the original proposal ? 
asked the VicePresident of the Executive Council,  upon notice - 
With reference to the delivery of the award in the Arbitration Court by  Mr. Justice  Powers in the cases of the Commonwealth Post and Telegraph Officers' Association and the Federated Public Service Assistants' Association, wherein  His  Honour is reported to have said: " On the whole, he proposed to fix£  132  a year as a minimum salary for an unmarried officer in the General Division, and£  126  in the Clerical Division. Parliament might, after allowing the award to come into operation, if it thought fit to do so, pass an Act dealing with the minimum wage of officers in the Public Service" - 
Will the Government ascertain if there is any way in which the Senate can deal with the awards before they come into force? 
If not, will the Government deal with the matter in the way referred to by  His  Honour  Mr. Justice  Powers? 
The answers are - 
The award has to be laid before both Houses of Parliament thirty days before the time fixed for its coming into operation, and if either House within that time passes a resolution disapproving the award, it will not come into operation. 
Will be considered when amendments of the Public Service Acts are under review. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
How many fit single men between the ages of twenty-one and forty-five were there in Australia when the census was taken? 
How many of them have enlisted since the census was taken? 
How many of them have dependants, or are represented at the front? 
The answers are - 
The answer to the first question is that  230,000  in answering the War Census card described themselves as such. As the particulars desired, however, are only available with respect to those between the ages of  18  and  45, 
I will confine my answers to them. It must be borne in mind that there were also a number of cards issued to which no replies were received. 
Fit single men at time of Census between 18 and 45 numbered 307,150. 
Of these, 103,748 had enlisted and embarked up to 9th June, 1916, and 50,492 had enlisted and were in camp. 
91,380 of the 307,150 fit men between the ages of 18 and 45 had dependants. Information as to those represented at the front is not available. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that when clerks enlisted for home service and were sworn in, the Minister for Defence stated that there was no intention of cutting down wages, and that there would be no overtime, but that they would be expected to work occasionally on a Sunday? 
Have most of these clerks been compelled to come back three or four nights a week and practically three Sundays out of four? 
Do these clerks get paid time and a half overtime, double time for Sunday work, or any allowance for tea money as fixed by the clerks award ? 
If not, will he endeavour to rectify this state of affairs? 
The answers are - 
Men enlisted for home service in clerical branches are paid in accordance with Australian Imperial Force rates of pay. The junior rank is that of corporal, the pay of which is 9s. per diem and1s. per diem ration allowance; when employed in camp, rations and tentage are provided; such men are paid for seven days per week, and, if necessary, are required to work on seven days. Soldiers enlisted for home service do not, under any circumstances, receive overtime. 
In many cases these clerks have been compelled to work on several nights per week, and also on several Sundays per month during the heavy work in connexion with casualties. 
No. 
No; as pointed out in paragraph 1, these clerks are attested soldiers, and are paid for seven days per week, and in the interests ofthe service must, when required, be called upon to work for longer hours than the ordinary hours worked by civilian clerks. 

 (By leave). - The following are the Government's financial proposals for the war: - The Repatriation Fund is for the assistance and benefit of Australian soldiers and of their dependants, and administered by trustees as they in their discretion think fit. The levy will amount to 1½ per cent, on all  estates, real and personal, of the value of £500 and over. The levy may be paid in three equal yearly instalments, or the contributor may pay cash, in which latter case he will be entitled to a rebate or discount, calculated on a basis of war loan interest for the period covered by the prepayment. The proposed entertainment tax will amount to½d. on a ticket costing 3d.,1d. on a ticket costing 6d., and 1d. for each additional 6d. or part thereof. Under the War-time Profits Tax Bill 1915-16, the Government propose to take 50 per cent, of the profits for the year 1915-16, allowing an exemption of £200 and a profit standard of 5 per cent, and 6 per cent. The Government propose for the year 1916-17 that the profit standard shall be 7 and 8 per cent., with an exemption of £200, but propose to take all the war profits over this sum. The Government are of opinion that an increase of 25 per cent, in the income tax is justifiable during thisyear of war. It is proposed to reduce the exemption to the sum of £100, and to call upon all persons receiving an income of £100 and up to £200 inclusive to pay income tax at a flat rate of £1. The exemption allowed in the case of children will be raised from £13 to £26 for each child under sixteen years of age. Married men and single men with dependants will be exempted up to £156. Summarized, this taxation is estimated to produce the following amounts: - Proposed entertainments tax (say, half-year), £1,000,000; proposed war-time profits tax for 1915-16, £1,000,000; proposed wartime profits tax for 1916-17, £2,000,000; proposed 25 per cent, increase income tax, £1,000,000; levy on wealth for Repatriation Fund, first of three yearly instalments (say), £3,333,000. I move- 
That the paper be printed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
We shall meet to-morrow. A Works Supply Bill will come up from another place, and has to be passed. 
Will an opportunity be given to discuss the financial proposals of the Government ? 
The honorable senator had a full and complete opportunityjust now. The motion was, " That the paper be printed." That motion was seconded, and I put it very slowly and deliberately in order that honorable senators might have an opportunity of discussing it if they so desired. It is quite out of order for  Senator Stewart  to debate it now. 
I cannot put the question again. I have already declared the motion carried, and I cannot now, after a subsequent motion has been submitted, reopen it. 
I crave the indulgence of the Senate whilst I discuss several matters of importance in relation to a portion of the Commonwealth which, unfortunately, has been for some time neglected by this Parliament. A few weeks ago, I visited the Northern Territory, and during my sojourn there I took advantage of the facilities that were provided to enable me to inquire into the conditions which obtain in that part of our continent. This afternoon I desire to place before honorable senators some recommendations for the better government of that Territory. 
In the first place, I wish to stress the great disabilities under which the people suffer at the very front door of the Territory. At the Port Darwin jetty, for example, the facilties for handling goods are deplorably inadequate, and, as a consequence, the cost of landing them there is relatively higher than it is in any other part of the Commonwealth. Only a little time prior to my visit, the jetty had been seriously damaged. Two vessels had collided with it, and, as a re- suit, a considerable portion of it bad been rendered absolutely useless. This jetty is an L-shaped one, and at the heel of it there is a turntable. Every truck going alongside a ship has to be pushed on to the jetty, turned on the turntable, and then run along the wharf. The same process has to be repeated in order to return the truck to the shore end. This involves a very considerable delay in the work of transhipping good&amp;. At the present time, Messrs. Vestey Brothers are doing the stevedoring work on the jetty, and their manager assured me that this delay, when a full gang of sixty men is employed, is equivalent to a loss of thirty-three hours per day. At the rate of wages paid in Port Darwin this constitutes a very serious handicap. After the goods have been landed, there is very little store accommodation for them in the station yard. Altogether the facilities provided by the Government are utterly inadequate to enable the trade to be economically dealt with. The bonded stores and the free stores are merely sheds about 40 feet square. One can imagine the conditions which obtain on account of this insufficient store accommodation when a vessel arrives with a cargo of 300, 400, or 500 tons. I understand that there is a project afoot for an extension of existing harbor facilities at Port Darwin, but, in my judgment, that extension will prove altogether inadequate. 
The next matter to which I desire to direct attention is that of the railway. The railway plant at Port Darwin exhibits every evidence of neglect on the part of the authorities. The rolling stock is badly out of repair - it is dirty, un,painted, and altogether unsuitable for the work it has to perform. Of course, it is narrow-gauge rolling stock, and I am not anxious to see it replaced, because I am hopeful that that gauge will be altered in the near future. The workshops are  1  miles distant  from  the township, but no facilities are provided for taking the workmen backwards and forwards. They have either to camp at the workshops, or to walk to and from their employment. Whether this walk be undertaken in the wet or dry season it is a very uncomfortable one indeed. As a matter of fact, in some portions of the wet season it would be impossible, because the roads are then inches, if not feet, under water. 
The workshops are not sufficiently . commodious for present requirements, nor are they properly constructed, because during the time I was there temporary repairs were being undertaken to combat the ravages of the white ants, which are very destructive in that part of Australia. I found also, when I went over the workshop, that the superintendent had to perform his own clerical duties, and was not even provided with the services of a shorthand clerk. I ask members of the Government if they think it wise that a man in such a responsible position, and drawing between £400 and £500 a year, should be required to do his own clerical work and under such unsatisfactory conditions as at Port Darwin ? The Government should see to i£ that this particular officer is provided with clerical assistance. I found that excellent work, equal to anything done in any other part of the Commonwealth, is' carried out in the Darwin work-shops. Indeed, some work which I saw in progress is not done in many of the large shops elsewhere. The manager has a small blast furnace. The workmen make their own patterns for mouldings, and while I was there they were using up all the old scrap-iron to make castings for the work in hand. It is only fair that employees of the Government doing such excellent work as is done at Darwin should get the full credit for it. Now, I want to say something with regard to the plant that the officer in charge has under his control. Included in that plant are three locomotives purchased from Queensland, and built in 1891 - twenty-five years ago. Those engines are quite out of date, and the cost to the Commonwealth was altogether out of proportion to the life they still have to run and the work they are called upon to do in the Northern Territory. Their original cost to the Commonwealth was about £1,730 each. In addition to that, they cost £38 to strip at Brisbane, and £31 lis. 6d. f.o.b. Brisbane, or a total of £1,799 lis. 6d. at Brisbane. Then there was the freight, £239 7s. id., making a grand total of £2,038 18s. 7d. for each locomotive landed in the Northern Territory. This is an outrageous price to pay for an engine that had done so much work in Queensland before it was bought by the Commonwealth Government. In addition to the cost already mentioned, there would also be the expense of assembling them at Port Darwin, and effecting whatever repairs may have been necessary before they commenced running. Those engines were supposed to haul a load of 170 tons, as compared with 156 tons by the engines supplied by the South Australian Government during the time the Territory was under the administration of that State. This difference in haulage power is not very great, and, moreover, the South Australian engines had been running for a great number of years, and had done excellent work. Another objection to the Queensland engine lies in the fact that its wheel base - 10 ft. 4 in. - is too long. This is a serious disability on the Northern Territory railway, where the curves are so short. The South Australian engines, with a wheel base of 7 ft. 4 in., give rauch better working- results, because the bearings of the Queensland engines, which have a longer wheel base, are continually running hot, and they require a great deal of lubricating cil. The Darwin work-shop is also undermanned. I cannot blame the Government for this, except to the extent that engine-fitters are difficult to get, and difficult to keep, because the living conditions are not made sufficiently attractive for the men. As the result of the work-shop being short-handed, repairs are hung up for many months. When I was there, I saw an engine that had been on the stocks for several months, and there appeared to be no possibility of it being sent out to work for some considerable time. The Government should take action to make the living conditions for their mechanics more attractive. At present it is impossible to get married men to go there. The bulk of the men are living in huts and tents in the neighbourhood of the work-shop and under conditions that are altogether unsatisfactory in every respect. I would suggest that the Government, with the idea of overcoming these difficulties, should erect cottages for the workmen. Such buildings, designed for Northern Territory conditions, cost not more than about £400 each, but the workmen, as a rule, have not sufficient money to go to that expense, and at present there is no legislative provision by which the Government can make advances to workmen who may desire to erect homes for themselves. The Government should take this matter into consideration, because, if homes are provided, married men may be persuaded to take their wives with them and settle in the Northern Territory. Population is urgently needed there, and this is one of the means by which it may be obtained. 
During my visit I saw the portion of therailway line from Pine Creek to Katherine River which is under construction, and I found that a large number of men employed on that section were working under what is known as the butty-gang' system. Industrialists in Australia areopposed to any system of contract working. I had an opportunity of interviewing several of the men working on this system, and they were making as much as £50 per month. A price is set for theremoval of spoil from cuttings and so on, and the men take the work at that price. They are not allowed to work for more than eight hours per day, but they work early in the morning and late in the afternoon, and put some push into their work; and, as a result, they earn wages at the rate I have stated. The Government are not paying an excessive price for the work, because it is paid for only at current rates for such work, but under the system adopted they get the work done more quickly, and the men have the advantage of earning so much more money than they would otherwise earn. I donot mention this as an argument in favour of either the contract or butty-gang system, but because I think it is my duty to say what I found in the Northern Territory. Any honorable senator can confirm my statement by applying to the pay office of the Railway Department at Port Darwin. I found that a number of Patagonians, Spaniards, Russians, Greeks, and others were employed on construction works in the Territory, and I assert that these incompetent foreigners are responsible for the cost of the North-South railway. 
I do not know, but there must be some hundreds of them. I wish to all public attention to this condition of affairs. Every honorable senator is agreed that Australia shall be a white man's country; but if it is not to be a white man's country, let us get" rid of these Greeks and Patagonians, and introduce Chinese. I would infinitely prefer Chinese to the class of men who are entering the Northern Territory now and working on our railway there. 
I do, absolutely ; but if we must have alien labour, I would give my vote for the Chinaman before I would give it for the Greek any time. The foreigners to whom I have referred are altogether unsuitable for the Northern Territory. They cannot work, and they will not work. It is true that thev are members of the Australian Workers Union and are getting the current rate of wages, but that is because that organization must admit them for its own preservation and the maintenance of a fair rate of wages in the Territory. The Government have established a store at Pine Creek from which the workmen engaged on the railway are supplied. There are a comparatively few Britishers there, and a few Russians, to whom no great exception can be taken. But- the storekeeper assured me that the account between the Greek workmen and the store amounted to, in many cases, not more than £1 per month. That should give honorable senators some idea of the kind of citizens these people are. 
They live on anything that flies, or crawls, or runs. It does not matter whether it is a crow, a hawk, a lizard, or anything else, they all go into the pot. I am assured of that by men working alongside of these people living in the Territory, and I believe the statement. 
I do not think they have come down yet to the use of the white ant for food; but if they did, there are plenty of them there for them. I speak strongly on this matter, because, if it is our intention to people the Northern Territory with white people, we should discourage the Patagonian and Greek from coming to Australia. 
Not a great many, but there were a considerable number there. I do not vouch" for the correctness of the statement, but I was told that some two years ago  a  shipment of Patagonians left their homeland for the Northern Territory. This was before the war broke out, and the ship in which they were coming was commandeered for war purposes. They were nearly two years on their way between their homeland and Port Darwin, and it cost nearly £200 per man to land them at Port Darwin. I want to know if that is true, and, if so, who is paying this passage-money. I do not know under what Government they were introduced, but such statements as I have reported are made quite freely in Port Darwin, and if they are true they are a serious reflection upon some Government of the Commonwealth that was responsible for bringing those men to the Northern Territory at such a price. I know that men introduced in that way are supposed to repay their passagemoney, but whether the Patagonians have done so or not I am not in a position to say. It is clearly most unprofitable to bring Patagonians and Greeks to the Territory. I interviewed one of the bankers at Port Darwin, and asked whether he had any objection to tell me how much money was being sent from Port Darwin to Greece. He had no objection whatever, and he told me that from the commencement of the year till June or July no less than £3,650 had been sent to Greece through his bank alone. That money has been sent out of the country, and it would not be so bacl if we were satisfied that the men who received it actually earned it. I am convinced that they did not earn a fourth of it, because they are not capable of doing so. This sum is in addition to drafts sent to London, Paris, and elsewhere. What those drafts were sent for the banker did not know, nor did he care. It is better that we should spend the money of the Commonwealth in settling people of our own race in the Northern Territory, who may be trusted to spend the money they earn in the Commonwealth instead of sending it out of the country, as these Greeks have done. I heard it reported that a considerable quantity of gold and silver had also been sent out of the country, but t,// banker assured me that there was no gold there, and that there could not have been very much silver sent out of the country. On the question of the extension of the railway, I might be permitted, in passing, to refer to the report of the Public Works Committee presented to the Senate only to-day. 1 do not know what is recommended, but if it recommends any extension of the  railway from the Katherine River to Bitter Springs, the Government should see to it that only European labour is employed on the next section of the line, and that provision is made to enable the men engaged on the work to live under reasonable conditions and to obtain clean food at a reasonable figure. We should do all that is possible to induce our own men to go to the Northern Territory to engage in the work, because if they do I am certain that a large number will remain to settle in the Territory, whilst the Greeks and Patagonians will not remain there for any length of time. 
Another matter to which I wish to direct attention is the position of railway officers in the_ Territory. Many of them were previously employed by the South Australian Government, and were taken over by the Commonwealth on the transfer of the Territory. They considered rightly that when they were transferred they would be Commonwealth officers, and entitled to the same privileges as other officers of the Commonwealth. Many of them are, comparatively speaking, old servants in the employ of the Commonwealth now, because their status was not to be interfered with when they were transferred. They find now that they are losing status and cannot be transferred to the south. They are in the Territory, and they must remain there. That was not so when f.hey were under the South Australian Government. I was in the Railway Department there. Several of my friends were sent from Adelaide and other parts of South Australia to the Northern Territory, and it was recognised that after being five years in the Territory they were entitled to be transferred south. No provision has been made for transferring these men to the south now that they are Commonwealth employees. That is unfair. They should not be expected to spend the whole of their days in the Northern Territory, and put up with the climate there, which, though it is not a bad climate, might be very much better. I find also that increases of salary to these men approved by this Parliament were refused to them. Similar increases were paid to officers in other Departments in the Northern Territory. It took me thu best part of a month telegraphing back- wards and forwards to the Minister for Home Affairs to secure the payment tothese men of increases passed by this Pailiament. I wish to know by what authority - whether it be that of the Minister for Home Affairs, under whose control the railways are, or the Administrator of the Territory - these increases  were withheld.  As the result of about a  dozen  wires between myself and the Home Affairs Department I learned that the men got the increases due to them sinceJune on the day after I left Port Darwin. I hope that in future no similar complaint will have to be made. Every man at Port Darwin is a unionist, and these railway officers formed an association of their own in order to bring pressure to bear through the Administrator upon the Government in Melbourne. They met as unionists do in the usual way, and presented their case to  the  Administrator. 
During the time I was in Port Darwin I had considerable discussion with the executive of the association on one or two occasions, and they placed in my hands a record of the whole of the proceedings between themselvesand the Administrator in the effort to secure a recognition of their status as permanent officers and the increases of salary due to them. The union was formed in order to securea status for its members, a recognition of the conditions of work, reasonable hours of employment, and the right of transfer to other branches of the Commonwealth Service. After appealing to the Administrator, and not receiving the satisfaction to which they thought they were entitled, they sent a petition to the then Minister for External Affairs,  Mr. Glynn,  but did not receive a very sympathetic reply. After having been turned down by the Minister, they went a step further. They have furnished me with the following statement, in explanation of their attitude : - 
It was decided by the association that all members of the Northern Territory Public Service Clerical Branches ought to join the Commonwealth Public Service Clerical Association. Prior to this decision, the Northern Territory Public Service Association had endeavoured to get registered under the Commonwealth Arbitration Act, to appeal to the Court on a number of questions. In the reply of  Mr. Glynn  to the association's petition, the Minister stated that the claim of the association that 
Northern Territory public servants were a branch of the Commonwealth Service could not bc admitted. The Judge of the Arbitration Court, through the Industrial Registrar, ruled (1) that their association, through its heterogeneous character, could not be recognised as an industrial union; (2) that members of the Northern Territory service should join the Commonwealth Public Service Association, and thus approach the Court. The latter recommendation shows that the Judge was at variance with the Minister in this, that he regarded them legally as Commonwealth servants. 
Acting on the Judge's advice, they sought to join the Commonwealth Public Service Clerical Association. They received application forms, and found that it was essential to state page of gazettal of the name of each applicant before his application would be valid. In fact, clerical workers in the Northern Territory service had no chance of joining the association before the Northern Territory Public Service classification had been gazetted. 
The association, therefore, asked the Administrator for the gazettal of the classification to be expedited. This was in October or November, 1015. No satisfaction being received from the local powers that be, the association in March, 1916, wired to the Minister. The association has not even received the courtesy of a reply. This delay has been long enough to prevent the Northern Territory clerks from joining in time for the Federal Arbitration Court considering Northern Territory grievances, as the ease is now over, and a log fixed to cover some period ahead. The delay in the publication of the classification also gives the Administrator power to withhold all such increments as he thinks fit, all officers being, strictly speaking, temporary, and, therefore, not entitled to any privileges other than those Eis Excellency grants as a matter of grace. 
In a letter to the honorary secretary of the association, the Government Secretary informed them that all officers are temporary until the classification is published. 
They are, therefore, in a worse position (in spite of ordinance and regulations) than when the Commonwealth took over control. Prevented from joining the Commonwealth Clerical Association by the non-gazettal of the classification, they have no choice left but to join cither (1) the Federated Clerks' Union (of doubtful advantage to them), or (2) the Australian Workers' Union, which their members fear to join, as, owing to the floating and heterogeneous nature of the Northern Territory branch of the Australian Workers' Union, they hardly feel safe from being called out on a general strike. 
As regards salaries, they are worse off than the Public Service in any part of Australia. The economic pressure in the Northern Territory is greater. Cost of living is very high, and rising apace. It was emphasized that meat and bread are 100 per cent, dearer than in 1912, and that hotel tariffs have risen enormously since the Commonwealth took over the hotels; also that most of the officers are single men, and have nowhere to stay but at the hotels. Not only are the wages not 25 per cent, more than southern rates, as promised bv  Mr. Thomas  (ex-Minister) four years ago, but actually they can point to many men who are doing responsible work at sweating rates. This applies conspicuously to employees in the Accounts Branch, which is worked very hard, and has most responsible work. Officers in responsible jobs are paid less than barmen and labourers. Mention was made of the case of an officer until lately receiving £150 a year, just recently increased to £180 odd, but less than the minimum, his age being twenty-three. It was pointed out that he was a most efficient officer, worth £250 a year. 
The absence of classification enables gross unfairness to take place. Certain men who have been induced to regard themselves as permanent, and have years of service behind them, are getting less wages than new hands in less responsible positions who are absolutely temporary, and, therefore, have to be paid the minimum wage. 
Many officers, by their scale of wages entitled to increments, have been unable to get any increase for periods up to two or more years, while others, like the Government Secretary, have been jumped up enormously. In the last three years the Government Secretary's salary has been increased over £300, and his position likewise, while others, perhaps far more competent clerks in the Service, have probably not received £20 increase in the same time. This discrimination would not be possible if a classification were in existence. 
It is chiefly the family men who object to the present hours- 
Under the system instituted by the Administrator the men had to start work at 7 a.m., which is equivalent to 6.15 a.m. in Melbourne. Honorable senators will, therefore, realize how early these officers had to get to their work at Darwin. After repeated representations had been made to him, the Administrator agreed to allow them to come to work at 7.30 a.m. They leave off work at 3.30 p.m. There is little or no amusement to be had, and the only place to which single men can go is the hotel. Surely the Government do not think it a fair thing that single officers in the Territory should be encouraged to spend their long afternoons and evenings in hotels. 
The Administrator has been allowed to put the regulation into force, and keep it in force. Representations have been made to the Administrator, and deputations have waited on him, and' representations have also been made to the Minister, but - all in vain - 
It is chiefly the family men who object to the present hours. Breakfast for father and children, dinner for father and children, in a family at different times in a country where domestic assistance is difficult to get. Yet by a large majority the association ballotted in favour of the old South Australian hours, and, in spite of protests and deputations, the Administrator is adamant. It was pointed out how the children were affected by it; also an epidemic of coining late, which affected school discipline, and other disadvantages. 
Many children attending the Darwin public school come from 2J miles, on foot, daily, a G-mile walk every day, probably without breakfast, to he in time for school, and no lunch till 2 p.m. - allowing one hour for the walk back in the heat of the Darwin midday sun. This obtained until quite recently. Now they are taken home by special train daily. 
The schoolmaster at Darwin told me it was most difficult to get the children to attend on time. There is school for only half a day, the children being liberated about 1 o'clock; but many have to go without breakfast in order to be on time. 
The various members of the committee emphatically asserted that such additional privileges as they might have - as in regard to longer leave, furlough, &amp;c, than the ordinary Commonwealth public servant - they would gladly sacrifice to come under the Commonwealth Public Service Commissioner and Act, and have the right of transfer, as well as the right to join such Commonwealth Public Service unions and societies as would give a right of appeal to an Arbitration Court, and escape from the bureaucratic  regime  extant here. 
Various other statements were put before me, one from the Registrar of the Arbitration Court. He pointed out to the officers that their best course was to join any organization in the south which, under their rules, they could join; but the effect of that would be that one or two clerks could join one union and one or two another. If, therefore, they held a meeting in Darwin, it would be a meeting of only one or two belonging to each organization, an arrangement which would not assist them to obtain any of the benefits conferred by the Arbitration Act in the southern States. The men have done all that was humanly possible to bring their grievances before the proper authorities, but, so far, have had n£ satisfaction. 
Let me point out some of the anomalies in the salaries of the officers in the Territory. I know nothing whatever of their qualifications, but I intend to quote a few instances, with a view to showing how unreasonable are the conditions under which they serve. For example, one officer with eight years' service to his credit is in re-  ceipt  of £156 a year; another, with two and a half years' service, is paid £186 a year. 
I cannot say. An officer who has been in the service six months receives £216 a year; another, with four months' service, is paid the same amount. An officer who has been in the service four years is in receipt of £216 per annum, another with seven years' service is paid £200 per annum; and still another with sixteen years of service receives £226 per annum. An officer who has been in the service four months receives £200 per annum, another with two months' service receives the same amount; another with fourteen years' service is paid £240 per annum, while another with six months' service receives £216 per annum. These are some of the glaring cases of inequality, from the stand-point of the salaries paid, which exist in the Commonwealth Service in the Northern Territory. It is high time that something was done to remove these anomalies, and to create a very  much  more satisfactory service, than obtains there at present. I am not going to quote from the regulations under which these men work, but I will say that this Parliament has been too prone to assent to regulations without knowing what they contained. I feel confident that, if honorable senators had taken the trouble to ascertain the effect of many of these regulations, they would not have agreed to them. I take my full share of responsibility in this connexion, but I say that in future no regulations relating to the Public Service of the Northern Territory will be laid on the table of this Chamber without undergoing the most searching scrutiny. 
Having dealt with railway matters, I come now to the mining industry. We frequently hear from the lips of honorable senators, who are as ignorant of Northern Territory affairs as I was prior to my visit there, that the Territory is a " white elephant," and that it is not worth bothering about. Now I recently visited a large number of mines between Port Darwin and Pine Creek, and I know of no similar area in any part of the Commonwealth which contains so many promising " shows." 
The Mount Bonnie mine, I venture to say, will, ere  long,  be one of the best paying propositions in Australia. Its prospects are excellent. After the wet season is over, it is intended to erect a smelting plant on the mine, which is being worked in a thoroughly scientific way. A tremendous body of ore has already been exposed, and I venture to say that very soon this mine alone will prove a considerable asset to the Territory. There are many other mines which are opening up well, but I want more particularly to deal with mines which have been ruined as the result of incompetent management. There is, for example, the  Zappapar  mine. It is a gold show near Brock's Creek. There a tremendous amount of English capital was spent in sinking a shaft on the edge of the creek. As soon as the creek came down in flood, not only the shaft, but the whole mine, was filled  with  water. The money expended there was spent in providing beautiful residences for the manager and his staff, in installing an electric lighting plant, and in providing billiard tables, &amp;c. The result was that, when is became necessary to find money for the development of the mine there was no money left. Consequent upon this mismanagement, the show was absolutely damned. Then there is the Faded Lily mine, which is also situated in the Brock's Creek district. It had a shaft sunk upon it to a depth of 150 feet - a shaft which was lined all the way down with steel plates. Capital was expended upon this sort of frippery instead of on developmental work. That is why the mining industry in the Territory has been damned. But I am satisfied that under a better system of supervision excellent results will be forthcoming. Splendid developmental work has already been done under the able administration of  Dr. Jensen,  -whose services, for some reason or other, the Government have dispensed with. I know that quite recently the control of the mines was taken out of his hands. I have no fault to find with that, but he is certainly entitled to every credit for the splendid work he has done in the Territory. Then, the lack of decent roads from the mines to the railway imposes a cartage charge varying from £6 to £20 per ton upon the mining products of this part of the Commonwealth. That, in itself, is a very serious handicap. 
I trust that the Government will see that as early as possible decent roads are constructed, so that the mines of the Territory will not be unduly handicapped in this way. 
Are not the Brock's Creek mines adjacent 4o the railway? 
I wish- now to deal with the Batchelor Farm, which was established primarily for experimental purposes. I had the privilege of spending a couple of days there. I have no doubt that the institution can be made a success from the stand-point for which it was originally founded, but it cannot be made a success otherwise. It was never intended that it should pay its way. Ai experimental farm, indeed, is bound to be carried on at a dead loss if it is to render any real service to the community. But, at the same time, the community receives a very substantial, though indirect, benefit from its labours. In every State of the Commonwealth from three to ten times more money is spent on experimental farming than has been expended on the Batchelor Farm. This farm embraces an area of 2,560 acres. It is not half large enough for cattle-raising purposes. I have no fault to find with running stock upon it, but it ought certainly to be twice its present size if it is to be so utilized. However, I wish to deal with it more from the standpoint of an experimental farm. Upon it a splendid house was erected by a previous Government. When I was there, that house had gone practically to rack and ruin. It had not been painted. Nothing had been done to keep it in repair, the white ants were well into it, and, indeed, the neglect to which it had been subjected almost evidenced a desire that it should tumble to the ground as soon as possible. It gave me the idea that no one was responsible for what became of the Commonwealth money. A beautiful house was built there, it was elaborately furnished, but on the occasion of my visit only three pieces of furniture were left, and no one appeared to know what had become of the balance. 
In the vicinity of the Batchelor Farm there is a large number of natives, and while I do not advocate the employment of coloured labour, I am satisfied that the natives there can be made to do a lot of useful work.  Mr. Love  knows the natives well, for, prior to his appointment as manager of the farm, he had been on the Daly River. .1 found that, under his direction, they had been doing a good deal of useful work in the way of clearing, and I am satisfied that, under proper supervision, they would be able to handle large quantities of tropical plants, such as the cotton bush, so that the labour problem need not necessarily stand in the way of its development. I have said that I am not an advocate of working the natives, but, after all, they are our own natives; we have taken their country from them, and it should be our duty to give them employment if possible. 
I was not very much impressed with the class of cattle I saw on the Batchelor Farm. All the stock were trotted out for my benefit, and among them was a bull which I understand is (known as !the "£20,000,000 bull." He was one of the Burmese cattle that had been brought over early in the stages of experimental cattle raising in the Territory, and, unfortunately, he brought the tick with him, with the result that it has cost the cattle-owners of the Northern Territory £20,000,000, up to the present, to combat the tick pest. I understand, also, that that particular animal is the only pure-bred bull of his class in the Northern Territory; but I do not think much of him, or of his progeny. The tick presents a very serious problem to cattle-owners, because stock hae to be dipped about every month; but I understand the pest may be kept down to a considerable extent by clearing an l burning. In addition to the cotton plant growing at the Batchelor Farm, I saw, also, some broom millet, and rice; bat before anything can be done to determine the future of the Territory from an agricultural point of view, it is necessary, in my opinion, that we should have a thoroughly qualified expert - a man who shall receive a decent wage, be given decent con ditions, and expected to look after the experiments authorized. There shouldbe no need to go to India for such a man. It should be possible to get a highlyqualified expert from the tropical part of Queensland ; and, having found such a man, we should make it worth his while to go to the Northern Territory and to stay there. 
Now I want to say a word or two with regard to the settlers - those men who were induced to take up land in that part of Australia as the result of specious promises and literature that was circulated far and wide. I am afraid that, up to the present, very few of them have made a success of their venture.I had the privilege of going over some of their farms, and, while I found plenty of evidence of hard work on the part of the settlers, unfortunately it appeared that most of their labour had been misapplied. The Northern Territory Ordinance published by the Government, and the regulations issued by the Administrator, clearly set out that the people who settled in the Northern Territory would receive advances up to £800. A pamphlet, issued some years ago, under the authority of the  Hon.  Patrick McMahon Glynn, M.P. - at that time Minister for External Affairs - included a table indicating the advances which would be made to settlers, but when the men took up land they found that these advances were not nearly as liberal as appeared to be indicated in the Ordinance or the regulations. I met several of the settlers, and, as a result of my representations, the Secretary of the Advances to Settlers Board convened a meeting of the Board, so that I could discuss the situation with them, because I felt so keenly that they were not giving effect to the intentions of the Government. At that meeting the whole facts were placed before me, but still I was not satisfied that the settlers were being treated with that liberality that they had a right to expect, so I obtained from  Mr. Worgan,  the  Chairman  of the Board, a statement showing the position of two or three settlers. Upon my return to Mel bourne, I submitted this statement to the Crown Law authorities, and they assured me that, under the strict letter of the Ordinance and the regulations, the settlers were getting all that they were entitled to. I have no hesitation in saying, however, that, as things are at present, the settlers cannot possibly carry on. Their money is all gone, and, according to the ruling of the Advances to Settlers Board and the Crown Law authorities, their credit is gone also, so there is nothing for them to do but to abandon their holdings, unless they receive special consideration at the hands of the Government. I hope the Government will look into this matter very carefully, and see if assistance cannot be given to the settlers to enable them to carry on. 
Now, turning to the Botanical Gardens at Darwin, I want to remind the Senate that those gardens have played a fairly prominent part in the agricultural development of the Northern Territory; but, instead of being of any use or benefit to the people of the Territory, they have been so neglected as to become a veritable wilderness. A few years ago, during the life of the late  Mr. Holtze,  the Botanical Gardens were a source of pleasure and advantage to the people at Port Darwin. When I visited them they were being used to depasture horses belonging to the Government. These horses were feeding on valuable and rare botanical plants, the like of which are scarcely to be found in any other part of Australia. Since  Mr. Holtze  died, many of the plants have been given away, sold, or stolen, and what was some time ago a Garden of Eden and a beauty spot for the enjoyment of the people of Port Darwin and visitors to the place, is to-day a wilderness. I wish to emphasize the fact that some person in authority should have prevented this from occurring. There is a splendid avenue there of cocoanut palms, and the white ants have been allowed to get into them. 
Gardens should have been allowed to get into the state they are in now. Many years ago I heard reports in South Australia of their value from a botanical point of view,. but to-day they remain as a witness only to the carelessness and ineptitude of those whose duty it was to toke care of them. 
South Australia's records show that there were very good experimental plots in those gardens. 
In speaking of Batchelor Farm, I referred to the possibilities of the natives as workmen in certain forms of labour, but the aborigines, instead of being taken in hand and properly looked after, have become paupers, loafers, and thieves. Everything possible seems to have been done to make them worthless. Quite recently fresh regulations were framed regarding the care of the aborigines. They wore brought from far and near to a compound placed at their disposal, strange to say, almost in the centre of' the town of Port Darwin. About a mile from the business part of the town there is the aborigines' compound, and beyond that is  Mielly  Point, where the aristocrats of the Government Service live. We heard something about the homes constructed for these people at Mielly Point, but now they are separated from the business part of Port Darwin by the natives' compound. I had the privilege of going over it, and, whilst one portion on the higher ground is very well kept, and there is little to offend the eye, when you get down to the beach, and see the native there in his home life, the conditions existing afford very little room, for the congratulation of those responsible for them. Although the officials may be doing what they can to look after the natives, it is found quite impossible to prevent the class of whites I have already referred to interfering with them. As a result, the aborigines at Port Darwin represent the most effective means of spreading venereal disease. Port Darwin is full of the disease, and the natives are re sponsible for it. I have no hesitation in saying that a lock hospital should be established, well away from Port Darwin, and the natives should be removed from the vicinity of the town. I consulted medical officers there, and they are of opinion that the natives should be removed from the present compound, away over to the other side of the Bay, and far from the vicinity of Port Darwin. 
I visited the native school, which is being carried on in a private house adjacent to the native compound. I wish here to pay a tribute to  Mrs. Holtze,  who is devoting a lot of her time to the teaching of the children, and is doing very good work. She has in her school about twenty half-castes, and these represent what  Senator Blakey  has referred to as "The sign of the cross." I should think that nearly every race under the sun is represented in that school. There are some unfortunate half-, castes there who must be sorely handicapped in life, if appearance counts for anything.  Mrs. Holtze  is doing the best she can to teach the children some useful employment, and if they were taken away from their present surroundings something might be done with them. The difficulty is that when they leave the school they go back to the compound, and live amongst older natives on the beach.  Mrs. Holtze  does what she can to keep them clean and presentable, but, as they go back every night to their parents on the beach, what she does for them is nullified by their continued association with the natives in the compound. There is a class for half-castes and Chinese, mostly Chinese, in the .public school, and good work is being done there. The pure-bred Chinese is a smart and bright child, but the same trouble occurs to some extent there that takes place with  Mrs.  Holze's  pupils at the compound. The education of the white children is attended to as well as possible, but there are no educational regulations applying to the Territory. There is no standard, no high school, and no compulsory attendance. A child can go to school practically when it likes, and many boys and girls leave at the age of twelve or thirteen, only half educated. Some arrangements should be made to compel the children to attend for a reasonable time. 
To show the difficulty of carrying on the education of the children outside Darwin, I may say that one young school teacher travels between Stapleton and the Daly River. He gives a fortnight's tuition to the children of the Stapleton settlers and another fortnight to the children of the Daly River settlers. He has to do the journey between the two places on horseback, and camp out one night every time he goes to either place. He is a young fellow from Queensland, and if any one deserves well of his country it is this young man, who is so enthusiastic in the cause of education that he rides for two days and a night between his two schools. That is the class or man who is doing splendid pioneering work for the settlers of this country. 
The hospital at Darwin is a Government institution, and rather an old building, although in some ways very suitable. I have no fault to find with it, except that the operating theatre is not sufficiently well equipped for a Commonwealth institution in a place so far away from the centres of civilization. In a country where so many men are employed as in Darwin at the present time, and where serious accidents are likely to occur, the operating theatre should be at least as good as any in the southern States. I hope the Government will see that whatever the doctor wants in that direction is supplied to him. 
The people at Darwin complain of their local government affairs. The local government system there is very conservative.- The district council boundaries do not take in Vestey Brothers' works or the Government works at the 21 mile. If these were included, considerable revenue would accrue to the town. The election of representatives to the council is left to the people, but if a vacancy occurs an appointment is made by the sitting members, instead of an election being held. The rates are high enough to satisfy the most ardent land-taxer. Even  Senator Grant  ought to be satisfied when he knows that they amount to ls. in the fi on the unimproved value, and the sanitary rates amount to £5 10s., so that, if a man in Port Darwin has a block worth £400, his rates for the year come to £25 10s. For the money charged some better service should be rendered, and the people should have a free choice in the selection of those who are to represent them. I understand that the price paid for the sanitary contract has been doubled. Previously it was £800, with a condition for the employment of white labour. This year it is £1,600, without any such condition, and the present contractor, although paid twice the amount received by the last contractor, is employing Chinese to do the work.. That is a very sore point with the people there, and should certainly be looked into. 
The post-office is a very old building, and very dilapidated. I understand that there is a project afoot to build a new post-office. If so, I hope it will be hurried tip. The postmaster has often as much as £800 in his safe from Saturday to Monday. Although I do not profess to be an expert safe breaker, I believe I could get into that safe easily. There is only one business window, 2 ft. 6 in. wide. State and Commonwealth Savings Bank business, letters, postage stamps, and everything else have to be dealt with at the one window. I saw a tremendous amount of crowding there, particularly when the mails arrived. On those occasions you could not get near the window for hours. The whole place is quite unsuitable for the work. The cable station adjoins the post-office. The cables are taken by the cable company, and passed through a small connecting window to the post-office, whence they are transmitted over our wires to. the southern States. On the morning I was there, there were 700 cables awaiting transmission, and that night, when I went back again, I was assured that 1,000 cables were awaiting despatch to the southern States. That state of affairs should not exist. It has been suggested that the overland wire should be handed over to the cable company. I hope nothing of the kind will be done. A proper, up-to-date repeating instrument should be put on the wire, so that we may be able to cope with the business as it comes in from the cable company. Our employees are anything but properly dealt with. The difference between their conditions and those of the cable company's employees is most marked. The company have put up a nice commodious building for their employees; the Commonwealth has provided one unfurnished house for the whole of ours. The postal employees are paying a considerable rent for the building, and it is to be hoped that the Postmaster-General will see to it that his own employees in the Territory are treated properly. The public works going on there at the present time are considerable. At Vestey Brothers' works about 600 men are employed, and anything up to £500,000 is being spent in connexion with those works, so that it is most important that better postal facilities should be provided for the men employed there, and at the  1  mile. 
The  Common  wealth  recently  decided to work the hotels in the Northern Territory, but, up to the present, I must say that the experiment has been anything but a success. Most of the hotels are old and dilapidated, and not fit for a white man to live in. One is a decent stone building, but the others are galvanized-iron erections, very dirty and badly furnished. In fact, not one word can be said in their favour. I am not blaming the management. 
Some time ago this Parliament voted a sum of money for the building of a laundry at Port Darwin. The idea was greeted with derision. It was generally scouted. Now, if there is one thing more than another that is required at Port Darwin it is a laundry. There is not a soul there who will wash a stitch of clothes for one except the Chinamen. 
I wish now to refer to some statements that have been made by a section of the press in regard to the cost, of discharging goods at the Darwin jetty. I have in my possession figures which conclusively show that the members of the Australian Workers "Union there are doing this work as economically - taking into consideration the handicaps under which they labour - as similar work is being done in any other part of the Commonwealth. In addition, the members of the Australian Workers Union have a standing agreement with Vestey Brothers which provides that as soon as the cost of living is reduced below £13 15s. 6d. per month, the former will be prepared to accept a reduction of wages. Surely that speaks well for the members of the Australian Workers Union there. Much might be said to substantiate the statement I have made but I intend to quote only one instance to show that the members of the Australian Workers Union are not the only persons who are responsible for the existing high freights. On the same vessel by which I travelled to Darwin there was a gentleman who was about to visit the Territory on an enterprise which would involve the use of a large quantity of explosives. From him I learned that, at Sydney, the freight, harbor charges, transfer, &amp;c, from magazine to steamer, a distance of 8 miles, including freight to Port Darwin, on fifteen cases of explosives amounted to £8 5s., whereas the cost of discharging these cases half-a-mile from the shore at Port Darwin, and taking them to the magazine, was only £7 8s. 7d. This charge, it must be remembered, was not made by the Australian Workers Union, but by an agent, who employed Chinese labour to do the work. I might enumerate case after case if I chose, with a view to showing that it is the agents at Darwin who make the money, and not the members of the AustralianWorkers Union. The cost of living in the Territory is very high, and in justification of the wages paid at Darwin I wish to place on record some of the prices that are charged for goods there. The price of meat is 9d. per lb., although cattle can be purchased there at from £4 10s. to £5 per head. The 2-lb. loaf costs 7d., cabbages cost 6d. per lb., fruit (comprising apples or oranges) 2s. per doz., and eggs 4s. per doz. When, therefore,we are told of the tremendous rates of pay that the workers of Port Darwin receive, we ought not to forget the excessively high prices that they are charged for the necessaries of life. Some time ago  Senator Gould  asked the Minister for Defence whether officers about to enter the Military College at Duntroon were unionists or not. The Minister replied and thereupon I asked whether he knew for a fact that certain unionists at Port Darwin, before being allowed to outer the jury box in a particular case, had been questioned as to whether they were members of the Australian 
Workers Union. I refer to the  Manakoff Wooley  case, which was tried in April, 1913. On that occasion the men who were empannelled as jurymen, before being allowed to enter the jury box, were asked whether they were unionists, and, if they answered in the affirmative, were obliged to stand down. In the light of this circumstance we cannot wonder if the members of that organization occasionally become aggressive in industrial matters. 
I recognise that I have wearied honorable senators very considerably, but I felt that in fairness to those who made representations to me at Port Darwin I ought to ventilate the matters to which I have called attention. I met no section there which was not labouring under a grievance. There is only one thing to bo done. As the Commonwealth Parliament we are responsible for the development of the Northern Territory, and, so far as the defence of this country is concerned, we know that the Territory is the weakest link in a chain that is not too strong. We know, also, that the only way to strengthen that chain is by increasing the population, and that can only be achieved by offering sufficient inducement to the people to take up land in the Territory and to stay there. Unfortunately, members of this Parliament know very little of the real conditions under which people are living in that part of Australia, and the disadvantages necessarily imposed upon them by the climatic conditions. In all seriousness, I suggest that a Royal Commission be appointed to inquire thoroughly into all the matters I have spoken of, so that some definite scheme may be placed before the Government for the proper development of the Northern Territory. That scheme should include the provision that no man should have the power of the present Administrator without responsibility to the Government. At present railway affairs are in the hands of the Home Affairs Department, but part of the administration is under the Minister for External Affairs. Heaven only knows what other authority is exercised in the Northern Territory. We do know, however, that as the result of mismanagement generally - and I am blaming the Government in this respect - no one knows what is going to happen next in the Northern Territory. The Administrator is blamed for everything. It is not fair that he should be placed in this position, and, therefore, I ask that a Royal Commission be appointed to endeavour to put things right. The people in the Territory should have a right to elect certain representatives on a local advisory committee, because at present they have to bear their share of taxation, but have absolutely no say in the Government of the Commonwealth or in the management of their own affairs. I will not press for the appointment of this Royal Commission until the present troublous times have passed, but if, after matters have settled down politically, some steps are not taken to appoint a Royal Commission with very extensive powers, I shall take action at the earliest possible moment, so that the people who are living there, and those who are expected to settle there in the future, may have an opportunity to exercise some authority in the management of their own affairs. 
I should like to congratulate  Senator Newland  upon the energy and ability with which he has pursued his investigation of Northern Territory affairs, as well as the manner in which he has placed the result of that investigation before the Senate. I shall bring the several matters before the Minister for External Affairs, and I have no doubt that he will give to them careful consideration. 
I desire at this stage to refer to a matter arising out of a question of mine, and the reply thereto by the Minister for Defence, on Thursday last. As the result of certain wild rumours in circulation concerning the position at 
Broken Hill, I asked the Minister for Defence the following question: - 
Why is the publication of all news from Broken Hill prohibited? Is that one of the reasons lor the rumours that are in circulation? 
I was referring then to rumours that two machine-gun sections had been forwarded to Broken Hill, and the Minister, in his reply, said - 
It is not a fact that all news from Broken Hill has been censored. 
I was pleased to have that assurance, for my desire, in asking the question, was that the Minister should make some such statement and clear the atmosphere. I mentioned that the rumour concerning the prohibition of the publication of all news was probably attributable to the statements regarding the machine-gun sections. The Minister said that statement was untrue.  His  exact words were - 
It is not a fact that all news from Broken Hill has been censored. There have been in circulation in this city certain very ugly rumours regarding Broken Hill, which, upon making inquiry, I have found to be without foundation, and I contradicted them. My contradiction was followed by the assertion that news from Broken Hill is being censored. That assertion is as untrue as the rumours to which I have referred. 
I have seen the circulars sent out to the newspapers, telling them that they must not publish certain news coming from Broken Hill. 
It is a fact. I have seen the statement. I object to the Minister's denial. 
At this stage, you,  Mr. President,  intervened and closed the argument. Since then I have fortified myself with information, and want to read the following, which is a copy of a mandate sent out from the Censor's Office to the  Labour Vanguard,  Ballarat : - 
I desire to bring under the notice of the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy a matter that is of some moment to our returned soldiers, in relation to the publication of news on board the transports. When the men leave England, they are kept in communication, by wireless telegraphy, with the Mother Country, and receive daily the same war news that is published in the British papers. When they get out of touch with England they pick up the Canary Islands wireless, and as they go further south they get in touch with Cape Town, afterwards with Durban, and then with Mauritius. When they get out of touch with Mauritius, however, they get no more news until they land in Australia. They are very anxious during the whole of the journey to have the war news, and I see no reason why they should receive no communications,after they get out of touch with Mauritius. It it not much to ask, and I think the Minister might see if something can be done to keep the men on board the trans ports in touch, by wireless telegraphy, with current war news. 
.- With regard to the statement made by  Senator McKissock,  I should like to draw his attention to a fact which apparently he has forgotten, namely, that the question he asked was one about which I had to get notice, for while I thought it improbable that any action had been taken to send machine guns to Broken Hill, I had to make the necessary inquiries to be sure on the point. I communicated with Adelaide and found that there was nothing in the rumour. No sooner was that rumour contradicted than there were other rumours to the effect that there had been serious riots in Broken Hill and that eight policemen had been killed. These rumours were flying all round Melbourne. As soon as one was contradicted another was put in circulation, so as to rob my contradiction of its value. When I answered the question  Senator McKissock  asked, " Why is the publication of all news from Broken Hill prohibited?" This is the point:  Senator McKissock  asked if it were a fact that two machine-gun sections had been sent' to Broken Hill, and when I replied that it was not a fact, he asked, in order to destroy the value of my contradiction, " Why is the publication of all news from Broken Hill prohibited?" That followed immediately upon my contradiction, and then I proceeded to elaborate by stating that certain ugly rumours were being circulated about the city. The statement that " all " news was being censored, had been put about to destroy the strength of my contradiction. Later on I referred to the assertion that news from Broken Hill was being censored, and said that that assertion was as untrue as the other rumours. I should have referred to the use of the term " all " news, and if I had known that  Senator McKissock  was going to make any capital out of it I would have retained that word. 
I had no idea that  Senator McKissock  was not going to take my words at their face value. 
If I had thought that the honorable senator was going to  make capital out of what I said I would have retained the word " all." I admit now that I made a mistake when I used the phrase a second time in dropping the word " all," which the honorable senator had himself used. Now, what is in the circular which the honorable senator has read ? It is in absolute conformity with what the Prime Minister told honorable members in another place, and with what I told the Senate. We both said that resolutions in regard to a general strike in connexion with this question would be prohibited. There has been no secrecy about that. I told the Senate that they would be prohibited, and the Prime Minister said the same in another place. But that is not a prohibition of " all news," and if  Senator McKissock  had that circular in his possession when he followed me, what can we think of him when he said - 
I ask the Minister why has the publication of all news from Broken Hill been censored? 
If the honorable senator had that circular in his possession at the time, I leave it to the public to decide what should be thought of him when in his question he based the use of the words "all news" on a circular that refers to one matter only. 

 .- Mr. President- 

Order! The Minister has replied. 
The honorable senator must not speak now. He must obey my ruling. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Is the Leader of the Senate aware that an anticonscription meeting held in Perth a. day or two ago was broken up, and speakers advocating anti-conscription views, were subjected to personal violence? Secondly, will the Government see that those advocating anti-conscription views from platforms in Australia shall be given the same freedom of speech, and the same right to protection, . as is given to those supporting conscription? 
In answer to the honorable senator's first question, I have to say that Iwas not aware of what he has stated. The. answer to the second question iscertainly " Yes " ; but I point out to the honorable senator that the maintenance of civil law and order is the duty of the State Government, through their polios authorities, and not the duty of the Commonwealth Government, through the military authorities. 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether he is aware that when I attempted to address a meeting at the Guild Hall, Melbourne, last Sunday night, Iwas threatened with personal violence by most of the audience ; one man threatened to shoot me, and another said that if the first failed he would, finish the job? Secondly, I wish to know whether the Government will see that the right of freedom of speech and protection is extended to me? I was supposed to have been given freedom of speech for thirty minutes, and for twentyfive minutes of that time the audience was groaning and- 
Order! The honorable senator, instead of asking a question, is making a statement. That is contrary to the Standing Orders, and cannot be permitted. 
Have the Government yet determined the basis on which they intend to call up men for military service in the several military districts? Is the basis to be the total population, or the number in each district of those of military age? 
I ask the Minister for Defence what authority exists under the War Census Act entitling any person or local authority to issue such a circular as the following, in order to intimidate men into enlisting: - 
War Census Act 1915. 
South Melbourne Recruiting Committee, 
Town Hall, South Melbourne, 9th September, 1916. 
Dear  Sir, - 
In support of the Federal Government's Final Recruiting Appeal under the Voluntary System for Victoria's enlistment of 9,800 men during the month of September, we desire you to attend at the Town Hall, South Melbourne, on either Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday evening next between the hours of 7.30 p.m. and 9.30 p.m., for the purpose of interviewing the Committee with regard to your enlistment. 
What authority exists under the War Census Act entitling the South Melbourne Recruiting Committee, or any other Committee, to send such a circular of intimidation to any citizen' of the State? 
I am not prepared to give a legal opinion on the question whether the issue of such a circular is provided for within the War Census Act, but I point out to the honorable senator that the circular is practically an invitation to men to attend for thepurpose of enlistment. It says, "We desire you to attend." It is not mandatory. 
Has the honorable senator noticed the heading of the circular, "War Census Act 1915"? 
Will the Minister for Defence say whether under the system that has hitherto prevailed for the enlistment of recruits any special consideration or exemption has been granted to bank clerks? If so, to what extent, and were exemptions granted to any other class of labour in the Commonwealth? 
Consideration was given to the question of exempting the clerical employees of banking institutions. It was represented that it would not be easy to fill the places of some of the clerical employees in private banking institutions, and also in the Commonwealth Bank. They were therefore exempted from enlistment. A similar course was adopted in respect of the employees in a number of other institutions. 
I am goingto tell honorable senators. They were industries supplying equipment for the Defence Department. In the case of some  industries, such as the woollen mills, where the whole of the output was taken by the Government, the whole of the employees were exempted from enlistment; In other cases, where mining companies or smelting companies were supplying Great Britain and the Allied nations with material for munitions, the whole of their employees were exempted from enlistment. All these questions of exemption will, when the new regulations for compulsory military service are issued, beremitted to the Courts that will have to deal with exemptions. 
That is so. If they volunteered they would not be accepted. 
Has the Minister for Defence any information to give with regard to the question I asked him on 15th September ? 
The honorable senator, on the 15th September, asked - 
What is the number of men who have offered themselves for military service and been rejected ? 
What number has enlisted and afterwards been rejected as medically unfit? 
The answers are - 
One hundred and sixteen thousand two hundred and seventy-one. A large percentage of men have, however, presented themselves for enlistment on more than one occasion. 
Seven thousand three hundred and ninetysix. This includes the number of men who were discharged since September, 1915. No records are available prior to that date. 
Yes. I have the returns, and I now lay them on the table of the Senate. 
Are the returns available of the number of unfit men who were passed in Australia and sent to the bases, but were then rejected and returned, without being. sent to the front at all? 
Are they in Australia ? 
Yesterday I asked the Minister for Defence a question concerning the transmission of war news to the troopships bringing our returned invalided soldiers to Australia. I suppose that, in the excitement of the moment, when replying to  Senator McKissock,  he overlooked my question. I would like to know now if he can furnish an answer? 
Can the Minister for Defence supply an answer to the question I asked last Friday regarding the action of the military authorities at Brisbane in overhauling possessions belonging to officers of the Northern Territory. 
No. We have sent to Brisbane for the information, but have not received it yet. 
I would like to know from the Minister representing the Prime Minister what is the intention of the Government with reference to the proposed Industrial Commission to the United States of America in the matter of making special inquiries into industries in subtropical portions of that country, and particularly in regard to tha employment of white labour in such industries? 
Matters in connexion with the proposed Commission have been in abeyance pending the return of the Prime Minister from England. As the honorable senator knows, the Prime Minister has been fairly busy since his return, and hasnot had an opportunity of dealing with that question. As soon as circumstances permit, he will give attention to the matter mentioned by the honorable senator. 
At whose instigation was this Royal Commission appointed; what is the prospective cost; and does the Minister really think that anybody will read its recommendations? 
The Minister has not answered the first part of my question. At whose instigation was this roving Commission appointed ? 
Is the Assistant Minister in a position to say if meat has been declared a necessary commodity, and, if so, is it the intention of the Government to see that the price is regulated ? 
Meat has already been declared a necessary commodity within the meaning of the War Precautions 
Act. I must ask the honorable senator to give notice concerning the latter portion of his question. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
If the Parliament is not sitting when the proposed proclamation calling up men for military service is issued, is it the intention of the Government to call Parliament together to hear the reasons for such proclamation? 
If not, under what power is it intended to validate such proclamation? 
Parliament will be sitting. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
How many coastal boatsare trading in Australia ? 
How many were trading in1914-1915? 
How many were trading between Australia and New Zealand in the same period? 
The information, is being prepared, and will be made, available as soon as possible. 
asked the Ministerrepresenting the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is he aware that some 60,000 trained soldiers and 30,000 armed policemen are being maintained in Ireland to enforce martial law in that country? 
Before conscripting Australians for servicewith the allied armies in Europe, does he not. think the British Government should transferthe bulk of these 90,000 trained men to thebattle front? 
Will he make representations to the British Government on this subject, and inquire when ther the condition of Ireland necessitates the continuance of martial law and the retention in that island of forces which are so badlyrequired at the seat of war? 
Does he consider that the enforcement in Ireland of martial law, which enables the soldiery to raid private houses and religious institutions by night, and which permits the indefinite imprisonment of men and women without trial, is likely to encourage men of Irish birth or blood in the Dominions to volunteer to fight the Empire's battles? 
The answers are- 
No. 
No. 
No. 
The Prime Minister is informed that there is no truth whatever in such a statement. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Referring to the Prime Minister's recent tour through Great Britain, was any authority given him by the Federal Parliament or Government to criticise the British Government's method of conducting the war? 
In tendering advice to the British Govern- . ment, did he point out to them, or the public of Great Britain, the added strength to the Empire which would follow the grant of selfgovernment to Ireland by the creation of an Irish Parliament with authority to raise forces for the effective prosecution of the war? 
Seeing that both Houses of this Parliament, by large majorities, have pronounced in favour of Home Rule for Ireland, does not the Prime Minister consider that his mediation for Irish self-government would have been more beneficial to the Empire and more acceptable to Australia than the line of action which he saw fit to adopt during his stay in Great Britain? 
The answers are- 
The Prime Minister represented the Commonwealth Government. 
The Prime Minister does not propose to disclose confidential information as to Cabinet deliberations. 
See No. 2; but the Prime Minister's actions and speeches are public property, and he is content to leave the public of Australia to approve or condemn. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
The object of the measure is to allow the Attorney-General to delegate certain powers to a Solicitor-General, who has already been appointed. Certain powers that could be conferred upon him under regulation have already been so conferred, but certain other statutory powers belonging to the Attorney-General cannot' be conferred upon the Solicitor-General except by the passage of an Act. In conferring powers on the Solicitor-General, the Attorney-General will not divest himself of any power. He will merely delegate to the Solicitor-General authority to do certain things, and resume that authority at his discretion. 
I enter a strong protest against making a civil servant virtually a member of Parliament and a member of the Cabinet. There are three Ministers in the Senate already, and if three were not enough, it is open for the Government to appoint a fourth to do the necessary work. Por the benefit of carrying out the business of the Senate we ought to have a Solicitor-General here. 
If an appointment had to be made, it ought to have been a member of the Senate, whether he was a lawyer or not. It might as well be urged that  Mr. Knibbs,  or the head of any other Department, should be made a member of the Cabinet. I make a strong protest against a Solicitor-General, above all things, being appointed who is not responsible to Parliament. 
I join with  Senator Guthrie  in protesting against the appointment. The ability of the appointee is beyond question, but the proposal is an altogether new departure, and is not upon proper lines. The position of Solicitor-General is usually regarded as political. The man filling the office is a member of Parliament. He is placed in charge of an important Department and is responsible to Parliament, and can be brought to account in Parliament if anything is done of which Parliament disapproves. Our Solicitor-General will not have a seat in Parliament, and cannot be brought to book by Parliament for anything he does. 
I suppose the Attorney-General will be indirectly responsible, but we do not want that vicarious responsibility here. We want to deal directly with the man in charge. The Senate ought to throw the Bill out. If the Government find it desirable to appoint a Solicitor-General in addition to the Attorney-General, let them do so in the ordinary  Way,and  appoint a member of Parliament to the position, so that he may be responsible to Parliament. 
Honorable senators will be well advised to vote against the second reading. 
The Government have given us no information that would justify us in permitting the second reading of the Bill to go through. I am prepared, at the present moment, to vote against it. 
I agree to a great extent with the arguments adduced by  Senator Guthrie  and  Senator Stewart.  Probably we are establishing a dangerous precedent, but, on reading the Bill carefully, I find that Parliament is not giving away any of its privileges or authority. Sub-clause (2) of clause 2, provides that the " Solicitor-General shall have such duties and functions as are prescribed by or under any Act or as are delegated to him by the Attorney-General in pursuance of this Act." Therefore, in supporting the second reading of this Bill, as I intend to do, we shall not be approving of the appointment to this position of a man who is not responsible to Parliament. The Attorney-General is responsible to Parliament, and no powers can be delegated to the Solicitor-General without his consent, and all such powers may be the subject of review by this Parliament. Parliament, therefore, is not being asked to divest itself of any of its powers. Whilst it is extremely unfortunate that . we have not amongst the members of our party in this Chamber a legal luminary who could act as Solicitor-General and be appointed a member of the Cabinet, I consider that the Senate will be quite safe in agreeing to the Bill, inasmuch as the AttorneyGeneral will still be the responsible head of his Department. 
In reply to the remarks of  Senator '  Guthrie, I would point out that the proposal embodied in this Bill is by no means a novel one. Similar powers have already been vested in the Minister for Trade and Customs and the Postmaster-General. 
The PostmasterGeneral has authority to delegate certain powers to the permanent head of his Department. The same remark is applicable to the Minister for Trade and Customs. I would further point out that in Canada, New South . Wales, Tasmania, and New Zealand, the SolicitorGeneral is not a member of Parliament. Under this Bill it is merely proposed to authorize the Attorney-General to delegate power to the Solicitor-General to undertake certain work for which the AttorneyGeneral will assume responsibility. The Attorney-General will thus be relieved of much of the drudgery of official life. 
It is the result of the growing volume of the legal business of the Commonwealth. The SolicitorGeneral will not have a seat in the Cabinet. 
Precisely. Prom the political stand-point, the existing position will not be disturbed. Under this Bill, the Attorney-General will be able to resume, at any moment, the powers which he may delegate to the Solicitor- General. A similar procedure has worked satisfactorily in' several of the States, and has served to expedite the transaction of public business. 
In view of the state of business in this Chamber and in another place, after consultation with Ministers, and for the convenience of honorable senators, I propose now to vacate the chair, and I intimate to honorable senators that the sitting will be suspended until 8 o'clock this evening. 

 Sitting suspended from 3.43 to8 p.m. 

I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Another place has not yet succeeded in passing the Works Supply Bill which we expected to receive, and another small Bill for the appointment of an Assistant Commissioner of Taxation has not yet been finally dealt with. We hope, however, that these matters will be completed and ready for the Senate to-morrow, and so I am asking the Senate to meet at the usual time. This afternoon  Senator Long  brought under my notice a recruiting circular, issued by the South Melbourne Recruiting Committee, and bearing the heading" War Census Act 1915." I have had an opportunity of consulting the Crown Law authorities, and have been informed that the action of the South Melbourne Recruiting Committee in printing the words " War Census Act 1915 " at the head of a recruiting circular is not regarded as a false representation of authority, or other offence against the Commonwealth law. 
Yes. 
In response to a question which I asked the Minister for Defence this afternoon concerning the proposed proclamation to call up men under the Defence Act, the Leader. of the Senate informed me that Parliament would be sitting when the proclamation was issued. I am in doubt as to what the Minister means by the word " sitting." I understand that the proclamation will be issued on the 2nd October, calling up all men between twenty-one and thirty-five years of age. 
Yes ; but I believe the Government are quite right in discriminating. The proclamation will be issued on that day, so I understand, and I was anxious to know if the provisions of the Defence Act were to be complied with, namely, thatParliament itself should hear the reasons for the issue of the proclamation. Now, in reply to my question, the Minister informed me that Parliament would be " sitting." I have been told that if this Parliament were to adjourn to-night, and its members returned to. their different States, Parliament would still be " sitting." I do not know whether that is the true interpretation of the Act, but for the information of the Senate I will read section 46 of the Defence Act 1903-1915. It is as follows 
The Governor-General may, in time of war, by proclamation, call out the Citizen Forces, or any part thereof, for active service. 
The proclamation shall state the reasons for calling out the Forces. 
If the Parliament is sitting, the reason for calling out the Forces shall forthwith be communicated : by the Governor-General to both Houses of the Parliament. 
If the Parliament is not sitting at the date of the issue of the proclamation, it shall be summoned to meet within ten days after that date. 
That section is mandatory, and says quite clearly that if Parliament is not sitting when the proclamation is issued it " shall " be summoned to meet within ten days. I should like to hear what the Minister has to say on this point. This afternoon he said that Parliament would be " sitting." If by that he meant that this Parliament would be assembled in this building some time next week, then Parliament could hear the reasons why the proclamation was issued; but if Parliament is not sitting within this building after the 2nd October, will the GovernorGeneral, in accordance with the provisions of the Defence Act, summon Parliament to assemble to hear the reasons for the issue of the proclamation? I want an interpretation of that word "sitting." I have been' told that even if we adjourn for six months, so long as Parliament is not prorogued, it will still be " sitting." It would be as well to have an understanding in this matter, because other senators, like myself, are in doubt. To my mind, there can be only one interpretation, namely, that if Parliament is not sitting, it should be summoned within ten days after the issue of the proclamation to hear the reasons. The Minister did not reply to the second portion of my question, which was to the following effect: - "If not, under what authority is it intended to validate such proclamation?" I want to know if the Government have any power other than those under the Defence Act, which I have quoted, to validate the proclamation. If they have no other power, then, in my opinion, Parliament should be here assembled to hear the reasons. 
It is with some reluctance that, on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate, I refer again to the censorship, but it is of supreme importance just now, when we are about to begin this great campaign on conscription, that we should have some definite understanding as to where we stand. We have been assured over and over again by the Government that we are going to get a fair deal in the campaign, but notwithstanding all these promises, I fear that the men who are going to fight against conscription will be hopelessly handicapped. If it is going to be a fair fight, the same latitude should be extended to both sides; but from what I have already learned it appears to be very unlikely that this will be the experience. The following communication, which I have received from the Acting Secretary to the Minister for Defence, makes it abundantly clear to me that we will not get fair treatment :  - 
I propose to show the honorable senator what is wrong with it if he will only listen. The first paragraph states that the publication of arguments against conscription will be allowed provided such matter - 
Does not reflect on and is not offensive to Great Britain or any of our Allies. 
Surely there can be no freedom of speech with that restriction. Suppose I were to say that the Gallipoli campaign was a blunder. Would that be a reflection upon our Allies? And yet, who will deny me the right to say that in justice to the cause 1 am advocating? 
Yes ; but I would be denied the right to say it here, or to say that the Mesopotamia campaign was a blunder. 
But would such a statement as that be a reflection on our Allies ? 
I am afraid that the censor would think it was. If this censorship had been in vogue in Great Britain during the Prime Minister's visit, most of his speeches would have been suppressed, because they were the strongest indictment it was possible to have regarding the policy of the Allies in this war. Right from the start he condemned their vacillation, hesitation, and indecision. Why should any man in the Common- ' wealth be denied that freedom of speech which is permitted in Great Britain? If we are going to have a fair fight, some of these restrictions should be removed. At present it is not permissible to say that conscription has operated unjustly in Russia, or to speak of the disadvantages of conscription in France or in any other country fighting on the side of the Allies. Take next paragraph (c) - 
Would not be a contravention of any of the provisions of the War Precautions Act and the regulations made thereunder. 
What chance have we under that instruction ? Under the War Precautions Act the Government can make any regulations they think fit. That point was decisively settled by the High Court, which laid it down that the Government are to be the sole judges in that matter. Therefore, -during this campaign, in addition to the restrictive regulations that already exist under the Act, they can bring in regulations that will absolutely prohibit a man from having a fair say. The very fact that every man who is against conscription in this fight is subject to the War Precautions Act, and the regulations made thereunder, puts us in a tight corner throughout the piece. Therefore, according to the latest instructions, bearing date 22nd September, I submit that we are not going to have a fair deal. This paragraph follows - 
Generally allow greater freedom and latitude of expression and publication to the press, especially with regard to statements that are capable of easy contradiction, explanation, or disproof. 
What is the inference? That the censorship is to be rigorously restrictive if ' the statements are not capable of easy contradiction, explanation, or disproof. If the intention is to the contrary, why should the censor discriminate between statements which are easy of contradiction, explanation, or disproof, and those which are not? The very fact that that instruction is there shows that these gentlemen are out to handicap in every possible way the men who are going to fight this great issue. Even since that notification was sent to me the censor himself has violated the instructions contained in it, in his treatment of a pamphlet headed, " War Precautions Act and a Proposed Amendment," and issued under the signature of F. J. Riley, secretary of the Australian Peace Alliance. Whatever the opinions of those people may be, the spirit of the instructions laid down by the censor should be observed, but it has not been observed in this case. I received this morning the following communication from  Mr. Riley  - 
That is the. main point. So long as it is not seditious or disloyal, and does not involve the safety of the nation, no one has the right to interfere with it, for it does not come within the scope of the instructions issued this week. Here is another instance. Again I am not responsible for the facts stated. I merely read them to show that they are suppressed, and to claim that they should not be suppressed, whether they are right or wrong, so long as they do not involve the safety of the realm, and are not disloyal or seditious. This is a letter signed by R. S. Ross, secretary of the Socialist party, criticising the censor. It is censored because he dares to criticise the action of the censor.' If the Minister is prepared to justify what was done in this case, then, when I go on the platform and criticise the censor, as I may be called upon to do, in quite an impersonal manner, my utterances also will be suppressed. I tell the Minister now that if my matter is censored, I shall claim the right to criticise the censor who does it. 
Some newspapers have done so mercilessly. If they have the right to do so, every one else should have that right. Let us have a fairdeal in this fight. . The letter, which was sent to the  Age  and  Argus,  and refused publication, and then sent to the  Socialist,  is as follows. When they have heard it, honorable senators will be better a.ble to judge the absurdity of the excision: - 
It is the right of an editor to print what he thinks fit, but it is not within the competence , of the censor to determine whether or not I shall charge a man with being insolent. If he can deny me that right, obviously he can deny me the right to say anything else. If he can prevent me from saying that the censorship is insolent, I suppose I should be guilty of a worse crime if I declared that  Mr. Hughes'  proposals were absurd. At the end of his letter  Mr. Boss  - referring to the censorship - says - 
It  ought  to  be abolished forthwith.  As  a remedy it is worse  than  the disease. 
The last sentence has been excised by the. censor. I agree with  Mr. Ross  that the remedy is worse than the disease. But notwithstanding that that opinion may be shared by hundreds of thousands of persons within the Commonwealth, this military dictator, re'gardless of the welfare of the country, can suppress all that we say. These matters may be more or less unimportant, but" a straw shows how the wind blows." The samples of the censorship to which I have directed attention are a clear indication of how anti-conscriptionists will be treated during the coming fight. Beforethe ink was dry upon the promise made by the Prime Minister that we should be given a fair opportunity of stating our case, it was practically repudiated by the censor. Upon a previous occasion I said that the anti-conscriptionists would not receive a fair deal during the forthcoming campaign, and that they would enter it in much the same way as a man armed with a bayonet would enter upon a fight with a man who was armed with a modern rifle. The conscriptionists will not allow our arguments to reach the public. I consider it a damned shame for  Mr. Hughes  to tell us that we shall have a fair field and then for the censor to tie our hands in the way that theyare being tied. Personally, I do not careeither for  Mr. Hughes,  the censor, or anybody else. I intend to express my views, and the stricter the censorship becomes the bolder will be my expression of them. 
 In reply to  Senator Needham,  I wish to say in regard to the proclamation, that the Government will act in accordance with the Constitution and the law. They are advised as to the action which they should take, and they will follow that advice. I have nothing more to add. 
I have nothing more to add. 
In regard to the statements of  Senator Mullan  concerning  the censorship, I do not know whether it is worth while repeating that the instructions issued to the censors will be* adhered to, and that, in my opinion, they are being adhered to. The honorable senator quoted a number of cases with a view to showing that they are not being adhered to. 
When the cases which the honorable senator quoted are investigated, it will be found that they are all a criticism of the censor for some act which he has committed in the past, under instructions^ Each of those paragraphs is a. criticism of the censor for. something which he has done previously. This question arose very early in the history of the censorship. In the early stages of the war certain things were prohibited under the censorship regulations. The ingenious pressman at once endeavoured  to get  round that prohibition by starting to criticise the stupidity of the censorship, and in order to prove that the censor was stupid he quoted* the article which the censor had previously struck out, and appealed to the public . to say whether it ought to have been struck out. Obviously something had to be done to stop that sort of thing, otherwise the position would have been farcical. Consequently, ' a regulation was framed under the War Precautions Act under which attacks upon the censor for anything done in the. performance of his duty were forbidden. I would direct the attention of the Senate to the last statement read by  Senator Mullan.  It was a criticism and condemnation of the Government. But the criticism of the censor was excised from those paragraphs. Why? Because the censor, as a Government servant, was carrying out his instructions. If we are to allow such criticism, obviously in order that it may be of an intelligent character, we must allow the publication of the facts upon which that criticism is based. When once we do that, of what use will the prohibition be?. 
Not as to the acts of the censor. If we allow that, we shall have to allow the publication, as criticism of the censor, of practically the allegations which that officer has previously excised. Suppose, for example, that somebody were to write a slashing and bitter article reflecting on the Allies, and that the censor cut it out. If the writer of that article were subsequently allowed in the press to attack the censor for his action, under the guise of that attack, he would be able to publish the very thing which he had been forbidden to publish. The statements quoted to-night by  Senator Mullan  in the portion which he said was not censored contain a criticism of the Government for its administration of the censorship of a far more sweeping character than is the criticism of the censor himself. 
Yes; because under the War Precautions Act regulations such criticism is forbidden.  Senator Mullan  has stated that under the instructions issued to the censors it will be possible to . stop a criticism of the Gallipoli campaign, because such criticism might be construed as a reflection on the British Government. Of course, it has often been said that one can drive a coach and four through any Act o'f Parliament or through any regulations, and, conceivably, a censor might strain his instructions in the way that has been suggested by the honorable senator. But any such action would not be in accord with the spirit of those instructions, nor with thewishes of the' Government. 
Every civil servant does not carry out his duties as he should. If such an interpretation as that suggested by  Senator Mullan  were placed upon his instructions by the censor, he certainly would not receive any shelter from me. 
He would have the redress I have indicated. 
If any censor read's the instructions so narrowly as the-  honorable senator suggests, I promise him that he will be dealt with. 
No, at the time. It is my wish, and the wish of every other member of the Government, that the instructions to the censors should be interpreted in the way I have stated. I give  Senator Mullan  that assurance, though I do not know whether he is prepared to accept my assurance or not. I do not think that it is any reflection on Great Britain to say that the Gallipoli campaign was a mistake. That has been said in the press of all sections many times. It was said when the restrictions of the censorship were very much more severe than they are to-day. 
It has been criticized over and over again, and it is not likely that such a criticism would be censored when the instructions to the censors are more liberal than they were previously. 
I say that they are. more liberal than previous instructions issued to the censors. I noticed in one of the quotations made by  Senator Mullan  that there appeared, under the guise of a criticism of the War Precautions Act, an absolute misstatement of fact. 
The statement was made that under the War Precautions Act people cannot approach a civil Court. It is sought to' publish that statement throughout the length and breadth of the land, in order to incite resentment against the Government and the military authorities. But the statement is absolutely false. Any person can approach a civil Court against the censorship referred to, or against any action taken under the War . Precautions Act. It is not a military Court that deals with these things, but a civil Court. That is one of the statements which  Senator Mullan  read as an example of the statements that were struck out by the censor. Does the honorable senator wish freedom in this mat ter to mean the right to publish falsehoods about Acts of Parliament that are being questioned at the present juncture?  Senator Mullan.  - I say that it does not come within the rights of the censor to intervene. 
Then the honorable senator interprets freedom of the press to mean that in regard to these war measures - and the War Precautions Act is the foundation war measure - the publication knowingly of an absolutely false statement should be permitted? 
I say that the gentleman who penned the article from which the honorable senator quoted the statement knew it to be false. 
He knew the statement he made to be false. Why did he seek to publish it at a time of war ? In order that the foundation war measure shouldbe held up before the people of the Commonwealth in a false light, and be made to appear a tyrannical military measure, administered by military Courts. Surely there can be only one conclusion  as to the purpose sought to be served by the publication of such a statement. The purpose must be to create a false impression in the minds of the people, and to weaken the power of the Government in carrying on the war. Every one knows that the War Precautions Act is the foundation war measure, by which we are' carrying on the war, and without which we could not carry it on. If such a measure is to be held up in a fake light before the people, I say that is not fair criticism. It is hampering the Government in the conduct of the war, and creating dissensions on false premises. 
I adhere to what I said before, that the Government will, so far as they can, see that the instructions are interpreted throughout the Commonwealth as the preliminary paragraph setting out the instructions indicates. 
As the preceding paragraphs show, the object is to give the fullest liberty of discussion on both sides of this question. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask leave of the Senate to make  a  personal explanation. 
Leave granted. 
In the  Argus  published this morning I am reported as saying, on the second reading of the SolicitorGeneral Bill, that there was no legal luminary in the Labour party. That is incorrect. If I had made such a statement it would have been a reflection upon many of my colleagues in the Labour movement. There are eminent lawyers in the Parliamentary Labour party, both Federal and State. I did not make the statement attributed to me by the  Argus.  What I did say, and  Ronsard  proves it, was - 
It is unfortunate that we have not amongst the members of our party in this Chamber a legal luminary. 
That is true, because there is no lawyer amongst the members of our party in the Senate. There are eminent lawyers amongst the members of our party in. another branch of this Legislature, and in other Parliaments in Australia. 
The Minister for Defence, asserted last night that certain statements relating to regulation 50 under the War Precautions Act, and contained in a leaflet headed, " War Precautions Proposed Amendment," quoted by me were false and knowingly false. Will the honorable senator state in what respect they were false, or knowingly false, and on what authority he asserted that they were false ? And, further, I should like to know what is the redress available to any citizen affected by the regulation referred to? 
If my hearing was accurate the honorable senator last nightread out a paragraph in which it was stated, in regard to certain action taken under the War Precautions Act, that there was no appeal to a Civil Court. 
That is the statement which I say is false, and I say that any one who has read the regulations must know that it is false. 
I say that any person who feels aggrieved by action taken under any or all of the regulations under the War Precautions Acthas the- right of appeal to a Civil Court. I say further, that no conviction can be obtained under those regulations exeept before a Civil Court. 
I assure the hon- orable senator that what I say is" correct. This- must be clear to any one who reads' the- regulations. There is no provision whatever in them for a military tribunal. 

Order! This is degenerating into a debate. A question should be so stated that a definite reply can be given to it. 
In connexion with the appeal Courts to be established under the compulsory service regulations, have the Government taken into consideration the suggestion made that no  lawyer  should be allowedto appear on behalf of any applicants for exemption, bo that all sections of the communitymay be placed upon an equal footing ? 
I wish to know what opportunity will be given the men between the ages of twenty-one and thirty-five to be called up under the proclamation which we are told is to be issued on Monday next, between the issue of the proclamation and the actual assembling of the men in camp, to claim exemption for reasons which they may consider sufficient? Before what tribunals are they to appear? Are such tribunals already in existence and available  foT  men who may wish to claim exemption ? 
 Will he have to go into camp while his appeal is being heard ? 
 Who declares that? 
 Is that Committee in existence? 

 Later: 

I ask the Minister when, this Committee will be called into existence, what will be its  personnel,  and in what way applications will be received and dealt with, by it? Will it be a Committee . of civilians, or will it be.  composed of military men and civilians, and will its powers be those which are vested in an established Court of law? 
Beyond saying that the Committee will be a civilian Committee, I can hardly be expected to reply to the questions put by the honorable senator, which involve so many details, especially as I have not the draft copy of the regulations by me. 
No. There will be one Committee for the Commonwealth, and it will declare what industries shall be exempt. 
I cannot say from memory; but either three or five. 
Will the Minister be good enough to state when the regulations to which he referred just now will be issued? 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether, in the event of a proclamation being issued calling single men between the ages of twenty-one and thirty-five years into camp, and in the event of the referendum on 28th October being defeated, he will issue an appeal urging employers to reinstate those men who may have been taken out of their occupations for a period of one month or less? 
Statements have been published in the newspapers regarding the manner in which the proposed tax on amusements will affect certain industries. I have no doubt about the operation of the tax, but in order to remove doubts in the minds of people outside I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether the tax will affect, not merely places of amusement generally recognised as such, but will apply to cricket, football, racing, golf, angling, tennis,- and other clubs, to regattas, and to every kind of association that can be said to cater for the amusement or pleasure of the people? 
In reply to the honorable senator's question I quote for him the definition of " Entertainment." " Entertainment " . includes any exhibition, performance, lecture, amusement, game, or sport for admission to which payment is made. 
I understand that provision is to be made for exemption in the case of entertainments devoted to charities only. 
To all entertainments and amusements . for which a charge is made. 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether any decision has been arrived at respecting Allied subjects who are still in Australia? 
I answered that question last week by giving information as to the representations which had already been made in reference to this matter. I may add that further representations are being made in the case of Italy. 
I ask the Assist ant Minister whether the Commonwealth s.s.  Strathendrick  has yet arrived in port, and if not, what steps have been taken to ascertain whether an accident has befallen her? 
Yesterday we had a very . anxious time in regard to this vessel, and last night we completed prepara- . tions to set out in search of her. With this end in view, we were in communication with two vessels through the Lighthouse Department, but I am glad to say that the  Strathendrick  has put in  an  appearance, and that everything is well with her. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
  Whether, in the event . of arguments for and against conscription being allowed inNews 

 Gazette circulated among the members of the A.LF. abroad, he will see that equal space is given to each side? 
I will endeavour to obtain a reply before the Senate adjourns to-day. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the Prime Minister forwarded urgent telegrams to the Mayors of the city of Ballarat, the towns of Ballarat Bast and Ararat, and telegraphic messages to the mayors and presidents of all the municipalities of Australia, calling upon them in their official capacities to form strong National Referendum Committees to work for the triumph of the Government proposals ? 
Does the Cabinet indorse this action, see ing that the heads of municipalities are placed in their positions to respect the interests of, not a section of the ratepayers, but of all? 
Is the Government bearing the expense of such telegrams, and if not, who is? 
I hope to be able to give the honorable senator the information for which he asks at a later stage. 
asked the Assistant Minister,  upon notice - 
When does the Government expect to reach finality in connexion with the proposal to regulate steam-ship freights and fares between the various States of the Commonwealth? 
Action has already been taken, and on the 20th of July last regulations were issued providing that no higher rate than the rate prevailing on the 18th day of May, 1916, should be charged for freight on the carriage of goods from any port in Australia to any other port in Australia, without the written consent of the Minister. The question of further action is still under the consideration of the Government. 
asked the Minis ter representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Whether anything has been done, or is likely to be done, towards the settlement of the sugar difficulty in Queensland? 
The question is under consideration.. 
asked the Assistant 
Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to regulate the prices of meat sold retail throughout Australia? 
If prices are to be regulated, when will the Proclamation be issued? 
The answers are - 
The Government have the matter under consideration, and investigation is now proceeding. 
As soon as the reports of the various Commissioners have been submitted and considered. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister furnish the Senate with the number and names of experts who have been appointed to advise the Minister for Home Affairs in the administration of the Home Affairs Department? 
It is presumed the honorable senator refers to the appointment of consultants, not to officers of the Department -  Mr. Andrew  Christie, Mechanical Engineering;  Mr. Calder  Oliver, Water Supply and . Sewerage. Special reports are obtained from time to time, as found necessary. 
The answers are - 
A company is required to prepare only one income tax return for all its business in Australia. 
The question is under consideration. 
In moving - 
That this Bill be now read a second time, 
I wish to say that it covers a period of three months! The total amount provided under the Supply (Works and Buildings) Bill (No. 1), 1916-17, and this Bill, which together will cover five months of the current financial year, is £214,045 in excess of five-twelfths of the amount appropriated for 1915-16. With that exception, the measure has been framed on the basis of the Estimates for 1915-16, which have been approved by Parliament. The excesses which make up this £214,045 are as follow: - Federal 
Territory, £7,000; Quarantine Station and buildings, £9,000; Customs House, New South Wales, £9,000 ; Naval Bases, &amp;c, £57,000 ; Darwin to Pine Creek railway, capital expenditure, £9,000 ; Naval works, £40,000; construction of Fleet, £23,000; construction of vessels for other Departments, £44,000; and sundry other increases and decreases, £16,000. The increased expenditure in the Department of Home Affairs is explained by the fact that the Works Estimates for 1915-16 were reduced to the lowest possible amount, but that commitments have resulted in payments having to be made during the earlier portion of this year in excess of the annual rate for 1915-16. The increase in the vote for Naval Works has been caused by the acquisition of land  at Cockburn Sound, the purchase of which was not contemplated when the Estimates for last year were framed, but which it has been found wise to purchase on account of the rapid increase in land values there. This purchase has already been approved, and payment is expected to be made before the 30th November. The extra amount set down on account of 
 Naval works is due to a large expenditure on machinery and plant, chiefly for Cockatoo Island. 
I have not beard of it. In regard to Division 14, relating to the construction of the Fleet, I wish to say that the remittances to London happen to come into this portion of the financial year, and are in excess of the fivetwelfths expenditure on that item. The proposed appropriation on account of vessels for other Departments is mainly for the construction of steamers for the Department of Trade and Customs, for lighthouse purposes. Owing to the taking over of the lighthouses, it will be necessary for the Commonwealth to secure additional steamers, and the expenditure upon them will come into this portion of the financial year. Hence the excess on that particular vote. With these exceptions the remainder of the expenditure provided for in the Bill. is normal, and is based on the commitments for various works throughout the Commonwealth, which Parliament has approved. 
No. 
Only in regard to the Katherine River railway, and that is an excess over and above five-twelfths of the annual expenditure upon works. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without amendment. 
.- The Senate has again distinguished itself by getting ahead of another place, and I suggest, therefore, that it would be convenient to adjourn till after lunch. 
In view of the state of business in this chamber, and also the progress of business in another place, as disclosed by the statement of the Minister, and to meet the convenience of honorable senators, I shall suspend the sitting of the Senate till half-past two p.m., at which hour I shall resume the chair. 

 Sitting suspended from 11. S3 a.m. to 

.- In moving 
That this Bill be now read a second time, 
I wish to say that it is one of three amending Bills which are necessary in connexion with our various taxing Acts. All have the same purport, and deal with the same subject. As honorable senators are aware, the amount of our taxation, and the scope of it, have immensely increased since the outbreak of the war. We had a Commissioner of Taxation in the person of the late  Mr. McKay,  who was one of the most valuable of our public servants, but, unfortunately, we lost him through death. Before his demise, the Government had arrived at the conclusion that it was absolutely necessary that he should be provided with assistance in the form or an Assistant Commissioner, and we had decided to ask Parliament to agree to the creation of that office. This Bill, and the two which' will follow it, provide for the appointment of an Assistant Commissioner of Taxation, who, in the event of the illness or absence from duty of the Commissioner, -will be able to take his place, and who at other times will be in a position to relieve him of a certain amount of work. I am sure honorable senators will agree with me that, dealing as we do with so many forms of taxation, it is necessary we should have ample and competent officers at the head of that Department. In the circumstances, therefore, I think -there will be no opposition to 'this Bill. 
No. I think that applications have been invited for filling the position. But it is the intention of the Government to appoint a Commissioner, and, if these Bills be passed, to also appoint an Assistant Commissioner. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment. 
In moving 
That this Bill be now read a second time, 
I merely wish to say that it is an amending measure consequent upon that which has just been passed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment. 
In moving 
That this Bill be now read a second time, 
I have merely to say that it is on similar lines to the two measures with which we have just dealt. They relate to specific forms of taxation, and this Bill deals with another form. 
That is so. As a Commissioner must be appointed Commissioner of Land Tax, Commissioner of Income Tax, and Commissioner for the collection of Estate Duties, it becomes necessary to appoint an Assistant Commissioner to deal with . these three forms of taxation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stageswithout amendment. 
Only one other measure, that relating to the increase in the invalid and old-age pensions, has to come from another place, and my information is to the effect that it will probably be half-an-hour before it is disposed of. In the circumstances a suspension of the sitting will probably meet the convenience of honorable senators. 
In view of the state of business in this Chamber and, as the Minister informs me, of the state of business in another place, and to meet the convenience of honorable senators, I suspend the sitting of the Senate until a quarter to 4 o'clock. 

 Sitting suspended from 2.47 to 3.45 p.m. 

.- In moving - 
That this Bill be now read' a second time. 
I desire to point out that the Bill authorizes an increase in a maximum payment of pensions under the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Act, from £26 per year to £32 10s., or, in other words, an additional 2s. 6d. per week -to those who are entitled to the maximum rate. Where a claimant for a pension is in re-, ceipt of board and lodging the maximum amount which shall be included as income on account of such board and lodging, is to be increased from 5s. to 7s. 6d. per week. A sum of 2s. per week is now proposed to be paid in cases where a magistrate has decided that a claimant is unfit to be trusted with a pension, but that' sum is not to be paid until the claimant enters a benevolent asylum. A new provision is proposed to be made authorizing payment of moneys due to a pensioner, while in a benevolent asylum, to the asylum for the benefit of the pen sioner. Production of the pension certificate in such, case may be dispensed with. I feel sure that all honorable members of the Senate are heartily in accord with this Bill, and with the provisions by which inmates of benevolent asylums will be able to get a few shillings to spend on tobacco and other comforts. This has been a sore point with them for years, and is a concession which, I think, is thoroughly justified. No doubt there are many other ways in which the Oldage Pensions Act ' could be further liberalized, and I wish to say that the Government intend to look into a number of questions affecting this measure. There is, for instance, the question of exemptions, and 1 know several honorable senators are interested in the matter of pensions for blind people. The Treasurer has given a promise- that he will see whether there are any cases of hardship to be remedied. 
I can only say that the matter will -be looked' into. I feel sure the Senate will pass the Bill unanimously. 
Whilst I am profoundly disappointed at the taxation proposals of the Government which, we are informed, will be submitted to this- Chamber later on in the session, I am pleased beyond measure at the introduction of this Bill, which seeks to- give a greater measure of justice to those who have laboured long and incessantly in the field of industry throughout Australia and some of whom to-day are in receipt of the invalid or old-age pension. The Bill provides for an increase of 2s. 6d. per week, and, directly bearing upon this point, there appeared in the editorial columns- of the  Argus  yesterday an article which, for cold bloodedness and heartlessness, has never been equalled in the columns of any newspaper in Australia before. That article contained the statement that the proposed increase in income tax would realize £1,000.000, which was to be handed over as a gift to the invalid and oldage pensioners. The article went on further to say that it was to be given over to persons who- could make no productive use of it. Here in Australia we have a large army of men- and women invalided and totally incapacitated, and because they are not able- to produce in 
Australia now, this paper says that, in these times, when the cost of living is so high, they should be denied the very necessaries of life. This party stands for justice to the people who are unable to do anything for themselves. I would not. care if the amount of pension were doubled, 'if the occasion demanded it. In such circumstances the Government would be justified in introducing even a larger measure of taxation in order to deal justly with these people.- It is proposed to raise, approximately, £3,000,000 by war profits taxation. From whom will that sum be exacted but the people who, apparently, during this war have made undue profits, and, in doing so, have increased the cost of living all round ? No section in the community has felt this burden more than the invalid and old-age pensioners. It appears to me that there is a move, in certain directions, to prevent the invalid and old-age pensioners from getting the increase, for in to-day's  Age  I read a copy of a circular which apparently is being distributed in Western Australia dealing with this matter. It was read in the Legislative Assembly in Western Australia by a Labour member,  Mr. Hudson,  and one clause of the circular is as follows: - 
We have thought it wise, in these circumstances, to make an appeal to those who are being specially attacked, in the hope that they will agree to contribute to a fund which will enable the Liberals of Western Australia to make a determined effort to prevent the objects of the Labour party being attained to provide for fair and reasonable security to all. 
That circular was signed by  Sir John  Forrest,  Mr. S.  Burt, and  Mr. W.  T. Loton, each of whom has agreed to subscribe £100 per annum for three years for the purpose, evidently, of opposing these Government taxation proposals which provide, amongst other things, for an ' increase of 2s. 6d. per week to the invalid and old-age pensioners of Australia. When we see an attempt like this being made to block humane legislation it is time that the people of Australia were informed of the forces that are at work to defeat the aims and objects of the Labour party, 
I have seen it stated that he has had a pension for some years and that he will enjoy it for the remainder of his life. And yet he is one of those who, apparently, are prepared to subscribe to a fund the object of which is to oppose taxation proposals to be submitted to us later on. When  Invald  and Old-age Pensions Bills were last before the respective Chambers, they met with a good deal of opposition in both places, and the newspapers which supported those honorable members then are, apparently, just as determined now to prevent, at all hazards, an increase of this very small sum to the  unfortunate  citizens of this country. No man with a vein of sympathy in him could find any fault with the measure before us to-day, and yet that circle of readers catered for by the  Argus  appears to be indifferent to the sufferings of those who have not been able to provide for themselves. No section of the community should enlist fuller sympathy. To me the proposed increase does not seem to be enough, for if 10s. were considered necessary before the war, another 5s. at least ought to be added to the amount now paid. The opposition of the  Argus  is apparently dictated in the interests of that section of the community which has never borne its full share of the burdens- of government. The only way they think the country can be governed and financed is to lower wages, increase the cost of living, and wipe out old-age and invalid pensions. I hope the day will never come when a majority of the members of this Legislature will wipe such a humane Act off our statute-book. It is an Act which we take some pride in, having passed through both Chambers, and which commends itself to the humanistic feelings of every one who possesses them. When a paper such as the  Argus,  with a circle of readers probably next in size to that of its contemporary down the street, goes out of its way to attack this section of the community, it stings one to think that in this altruistic age such a cold-blooded and heartless leader could be published, and that that journal should have the audacity - as it had - to ask that section which it supports in Parliament, and that section in the community which subscribes to it outside, to do all they can to prevent the passage of such a measure, in order that those who are able to bear more burdens than they are carrying to-day may be relieved even of those burdens, and that pensioners shall continue to endure hardship and misery, possibly multiplied and intensified. I have no time or sympathy for such writers or for the people who agree with them. When we have another opportunity of considering the Government's financial proposals, I shall endeavour, with other honorable members, to see that the taxation expedients of the Government, which were, apparently, received with applause in another place because they were not what the Opposition anticipated, are replaced by something which will not cause them so much satisfaction. I rose to express my pleasure at the opportunity presented to me and others to support this liberal measure, which, I hope, will be the forerunner of one still more liberal to the old-age pensioners of Australia. 
I agree with almost every word uttered by  Senator Findley,  but would point out to him and other honorable senators, and the public outside, that the old-age pension system and a number of other democratic measures are safe while the Labour party remain in power, but if the party begin splitting straws, quarrel within their own ranks, become divided, and are thrust out of power, as in all probability they will be, what can we expect to befall those enactments ? All who are now present in this chamber belong to the one party, the Opposition being invisible, and I would impress on them the absolute necessity of sinking non-essentials and sticking to our platform. Only in that way can we maintain the confidence of the people and remain in a position where we shall be able to resist any encroachment upon the measures placed on the statute-book by our party. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment. 
This is a very important motion at this juncture in our history, because before we meet again I understand that a proclamation will be issued calling up troops, regardless of whether the people have decided for conscription or not. If the Government are going to take that action, it is only fair that they should, in compliance with the Acf, call Parliament together and give Parliament their reasons. This is a matter of such supreme importance that I refuse to overlook it, no matter who else may do so. Section 60 of the Defence Act provides - 
In time of war it shall be lawful for the Governor-General, by proclamation, to call upon all persons liable to serve in the Citizen Forces to enlist and serve as prescribed. 
A proclamation under the last preceding sub-section may call upon all persons liable to service in any military district or subdistrict, who are specified in any one or more of the classes hereunder set out, so to enlist; but so that the persons specified in any class in that district or sub-districtshall not be called upon to enlist until all the persons in that district or sub-district who are specified in the preceding classes are or have been called upon. 
The classes referred to in this section are as follow: - 
Class I. - All men of the age of eighteen years and upwards, but under thirtyfive years, who are unmarried, or widowers without children; 
Class II. - All men of the age of thirty-five years and upwards, but under fortyfive years, who are unmarried, or widowers without children; 
Class III. - All men of the age of eighteen years and upwards, but under thirtyfive years, who are married or widowers with children; 
Class IV. - All men of the ageof thirtyfive years and upwards, but under forty-five years, who are married, or widowers with children; and 
Class V. - All men of the age of forty-five years and upwards, but under sixty years. 
If the Parliament is not sitting at the date of the issue of the proclamation, it shall be summoned to meet within ten days after that date. 
We have been told that the proclamation is to be issued on Monday next, and there does not appear to be the slightest intention on the part of the Government to call Parliament together within ten days after the issue of the proclamation. The Government would appear to intend to sidestep the law as it stands to-day. In this supreme crisis they should be straightforward. They should put their cards on the table so that every man in the Commonwealth may know exactly what ia their intention. If they intend to summon Parliament that they may be able to explain the reasons why they are calling up the troops, and that Parliament may be given an opportunity to approve or disapprove of their proposed action, they should say so. The real position is that they do not contemplate calling Parliament together, and. they intend to rely upon the fact that what is proposed is only an adjournment, and not a prorogation; to claim that Parliament will technically be sitting, and that the law will be complied with. That may be a technical compliance with' the law, but it will violate its spirit, which is that in such a supreme crisis Parliament should be called together so that honorable members may have (stated to them the reasons why the Government propose taking so grave a step, and they should then decide, in view of the reasons submitted, whether the step is justified or not. It is the duty of every member of this Senate to maintain his rights and the rights of the people in this matter, and that he may be given an opportunity to do so I intend to move as an amendment to the motion that the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till Wednesday next. I understand that the proclamation will have been issued before that time. If it has not been issued by Wednesday next we can have a further adjournment. I want to put the position fairly and squarely before honorable senators. Let them make no mistake about it. Every man who votes for the motion submitted by the Minister for Defence will take upon himself the responsiblity of aiding and abetting the Government in calling up our men. That is the position, and it is just as well that it should be defined to honorable senators. Every member of the Senate who votes for the motion will be helping to give effect to the proclamation, because he will be enabling the Government to take the course proposed, without giving  Parlia-ment  .an opportunity to challenge their action. If my amendment be agreed to, whilst the proclamation may still be issued, it cannot be given effect without our indorsement. Who is to be supreme in this crisis? Honorable senators must decide on this motion, whether it is the Government for the time being or the Parliament. So far as I am concerned, I arn not going to allow any Executive or any coterie of men to decide my action in the matter. I sincerely hope that those who are against the action of the Government in attempting to disregard Parliament and to violate the laws of the land in this supreme crisis, will, by supporting the amendment I have indicated, refuse to permit them to do so. I move - 
That all the words after the word " on " be left out, with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words " Wednesday next." 
Before asking for a seconder for the amendment it is my duty to point out to  Senator Mullan  that it is out of order, since it is a direct negative of the motion submitted by the Minister for Defence. All that it is necessary for the honorable senator to do to accomplish what he desires is to negative the motion. If the motion is not carried the Senate will meet at 3 'o'clock on Wednesday, in accordance with Sessional Orders. If the honorable senator were to move that the Senate, at its rising, adjourn to some unusual hour, such as 3 o'clock on Tuesday, or some other nonsitting day, that would be an amendment which I could accept, because it would not be a direct negative of the motion. 
That all the words after the word ° on " be left out, with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words " Tuesday next.'- 
I desire that there should be no mistake about what I intend. I want to have a division on the amendment to show where honorable senators are. I wish to know what honorable senators are in favour of permitting the Government to call up the troops before Parliament is given an opportunity to indorse such action. 
I am prepared to second the amendment. No matter of greater moment to the people of Australia, or to this Parliament, has been dealt with in this Chamber than that which is involved in the amendment submitted by  Senator Mullan.  We are told that the proclamation is to be issued pn Monday, and 'that regulations will also be issued; but none of us have the slightest idea what those regulations will contain.- This morning I put two or three questions to the Minister for Defence which were pertinent to the matter we are now discussing. He said, in reply, that when the call is made of men between twenty-one and thirty-five years of age, an opportunity will be given to those who desire to be exempted to make an application for exemption before recognised tribunals. Some who make application will go into camp and remain there until their applications have been decided. The Minister said, further, that there will be some who will not be required to go into camp after making application for exemption. He told us that a committee is to be appointed of civilians and not of military men - though he did not say how many would form the committee, or who were to be the members of it - to deal with applications from all parts of Australia for exemptions. 
I understand that some who will make applications for exemption will be required to go into camp. We should have some information from the Minister as to the kind of industries the employees of which are to be exempted. 
Are we to understand that employees on the railways and those engaged in the Broken Hill mining industry and in the mining industry in every part of Australia will be exempt ? 
Who is to decide that? 
Are we to understand that there are to be certain " starred " industries declared, and- that those engaged in them will not be called up? 
I should not have risen to second the amendment were itnot for the fact that I am quite in the dark as to the real intentions of the Government with respect to the proclamation and the exemptions that will be permitted under it. I am not here to offer opposition merely for the sake of opposing the Government. But I desire to elicit all the information with respect to the Government proposal which the citizens of Australia are entitled to have. 
I should not have spoken were it not for the fact that I am in the dark as to the real intention of the Government. The Minister might give an assurance which would clear . up my doubts and enable the readers of newspapers throughout Australia to know what may be expected to happen between Monday next and ten days later. If such an assurance were given my purpose would be served. 
If that is so I shall not occupy the time of the Senate any longer. 
On behalf of the Government, I wish to say that the proclamation has already been issued. It was issued to-day, and it was issued in accordance with the provisions of the Defence Act. Honorable senators may rest assured that all the requirements of the Act have been, and will be, most carefully observed. I cannot say more than that for the simple reason that I am not a constitutional lawyer. But the action taken by the Government has been taken in accordance with the best constitutional advice that we could get. The proclamation has been issued, and we are complying with the law. 
Before we adjourn, I shall, if possible, lay a copy of it on the table of the Senate, but there is nothing in it more than has already been stated by the Prime Minister and myself. I ask honorable senators to accept that assurance, which is given in all honesty and sincerity. We would be foolish to act in this matter without being certain that we were upon sound legal ground. 
The exemptions outlined by the Prime Minister are the exemptions specified in the regulations. 
They are not yet out, but they will be shortly. 
The cases have to be established by claim. If the honorable senator will look at the Defence Act he will see quite a number of exemptions there. These have to be established before the Courts. 
There will be a committee to advise the Government as to what industries are necessary to enable us to carry on the war. Our railways naturally occur to one in this connexion. But it does not follow that every person employed upon the railways will be exempt from service. 
They will first have to come up for enlistment, and then they may claim exemption. 
-Undoubtedly , unless they are engaged in an exempt industry. 
With all due respect to him, I think that the Minister for Defence has made his case much weaker than it was. If, in response to the questions which I put to him yesterday, he had given the explanation which he has now given, I might not have taken the stand which I did. The Defence Act provides that when the proclamation calling up men for service is issued Parliament shall be summoned, to discuss the reasons for issuing that proclamation, within ten days. Last night the Minister stated that he would follow the law and the Constitution in regard to this matter. But we did not then know whether Parliament would be sitting when the proclamation was issued. In the newspapers this morning, however, the Prime Minister is reported as having definitely stated that Parliament will not be sitting next week. If I had received that reply yesterday it would have been a straight-out, honest answer to an honest and courteous question. I contend that the Defence Act is not being observed in regard to this matter. The Minister has told us that the proclamation has been issued. That is all the more reason why this Parliament should meet to discuss the reasons for the issue of that proclamation, and to debate the proclamation itself. If  Senator Mullan  had not moved his amendment the Senate would have been adjourned till an indefinite date, and we would not have known that the proclamation has already been issued. The information has only now been dragged from the Minister. 
I accept the assurance of the Minister. But under the provisions of the Defence Act, this Parliament has the right to discuss the reasons why the proclamation has been issued, and also the regulations in connexion therewith. I have no desire to embarrass the Government in any way, but I want to see the- law obeyed. Had the Minister been more frank with me, I would not have supported the amendment of  Senator Mullan.  But because of his lack of candour, I think we shall be wise to carry the amendment. 
I wish to point out that Parliament is now sitting, and that the proclamation has already been issued. Subsection 4 of section 60 of the Defence Act provides - 
If the Parliament is not sitting at the date of the issue of the proclamation it shall be summoned to meet within ten days after that date. 
But the proclamation has been issued today, and Parliament is sitting. 
As  Senator Mullan  has interjected, we have not seen a copy of the proclamation, and we have not been made acquainted by the Government with their reasons for issuing it. My reading of the sub-section which I have quoted is that if Parliament be sitting a copy of the proclamation must be laid on the table of the Senate, and the reasons for issuing it must be stated to Parliament, whereas if Parliament be not sitting it must be summoned to meet within ten days of the issue of the proclamation. For what purpose must it be summoned ? To hear the Government's reasons for issuing the proclamation. Now I think that the Government have an easy way out of this difficulty. They can at once state their reasons for issuing the proclamation. Parliament is sitting. The opportunity is here. The Government will be well advised if they take advantage of that opportunity. If they do so, they will be complying with the Act, andthe necessity for meeting next week will be obviated. 
Well, Parliament is sitting, and there is no reason why it should rise to-night. We are ready to discuss the question if it  is  put before us in a proper way. I suggest, therefore, that the Minister should give us the reasons for the issue of the proclamation. 
That is quite true. We know why the proclamation has been issued, but we want the Act to be complied with. 
Question - That the words proposed to be left out be left out - put. The Senate divided - 
In moving - 
 That the Senate do now adjourn, 
I desire to say that I promised some information to  Senator McDougall  concerning the supply of war news by wireless to our incoming transports. The Minister for the Navy informs me that an arrangement can be made by which news will be transmitted from the Perth Wireless Station.  Senator McKissock  asked me some questions with regard to telegrams sent by the Prime Minister to the Mayors of Ballarat and other municipali ses, inviting them to take action to form National Referendum Committees. In reply to those questions I have to say that the telegrams were sent by the Prime Minister in his capacity as  Chairman  of the Council of the National Referendum Committee, and that the Government are not bearing the expense of such telegrams. 
That is not the honorable senator's business. 
The honorable senator is entitled to ask any question about Government expenditure, but it is not his business to inquire about anything else. I wish also to say that although the majority of the Senate decided to meet on Tuesday next, the Government will have no business, except the motion that I have moved here today. 
During the week the Minister for Defence was asked several questions in connexion with an alleged disturbance at Broken . Hill, and he repeatedly told us there Was' no truth in statements that -there had been disturbances there. 
I have information which shows that there is trouble there. I have been told that on Monday evening,, at Broken Hill, forty policemen threatened with revolvers and used their batons upon a decidedly good-humoured crowd of men, women, and children. This, it appears, is the first blow in for the conscriptionists. My information shows that there is a great deal of excitement and indignation there as the result of this action, and that probably there will be a general strike at Broken Hill on Monday next. 
Would you ? 
Then the honorable senator may answer for himself. 
I am pleased to know that the honorable senator's position is so perfectly clear. I want also to define my position, and I draw attention to the fact that there is altogether too much censoring of news just at present. The public ought to know what is being done. Even in this Senate we cannot get information from the Minister concerning the happenings from day to day. We have been told that the men at Broken Hill regard this as a dastardly, and probably an inspired, attempt to place them in a false position. Anyhow, if they go out on strike next Monday, it will probably be as a result of the great provocation they have received by this wholesale batoning of men, women, and children. I understand that six women were batoned and injured on Monday night; and my information shows that an attack was made upon peaceable citizens holding a good- humoured demonstration. This, then, is a sample of that Prussianism, which at the outbreak of the war, we all hoped would not be imported into Australia, and which our men have gone overseas to fight against. This, it appears, is the sort of treatment we are going to get even before we adopt the pet scheme of conscription favoured by some honorable senators. 
Which party? 
Does , the honorable senator belong to the Labour party ? 
Well,  Mr. President,  I will conclude with the hope that we shall not have a repetition of this trouble in the future. 
I wish also to urge upon the Government the necessity of paying a little attention to this much-abused Department of the Commonwealth Censorship. I realize, of course, that it is- impossible for the censors to . satisfy all parties, because the men appointed to these positions are only human and liable to err on both sides; 
I am glad to have the honorable senator's manly expression of opinion, because it makes my task all the lighter. I intend to repeat what I said the other day, that the censorship in Western Australia, by some means or other, has been directed against the cause of conscription. At a recent meeting of the Trades Hall Council, Fremantle - a body composed of a large number of delegates whose business it is to look after the industrial interests of the western State - a motion was tabled in favour of bringing about a general strike, in the event of conscription being decided upon. Notice . of that motion was given wide publicity; the public knew when it was to be debated ; but when it was defeated by 35 votes to5, although the representatives of the press were present, and reported the overwhelming rejection of the motion, the censor censored it. The much-abused office of censor is just as much directed against one - side as the . other. In Western Australia, at a meeting of the metropolitan council, held to discuss the question of supporting or rejecting the Government policy, the question was debated at full length, and it was ultimately decided by a majority, which I am not in a position to state, that the council stand behind the Government. That was censored. Where is  Senator Mullan  now, that he does not protest ? Where are the other' honorable senators who look -upon the censorshipas an evil instrument, to be used on all. occasions against theanti-conscriptionists'? I should not . mention these trifles but for the extraordinary attitude of those who look on the censorship as a kind of weapon that will shoot in one direction and not in another. Those are two important cases, where the censorship in Western Australia . was directed towards suppressing opinions in favour of conscription. Therefore, I say, let these men hold their peace. 
I am not. I am trying to open the eyes and minds of honorable senators to the fact that the censorship can err on one side just as much as on the other. When people tell us that it is directed in only one way, Western Australia comes along and puts witnesses in the box to confound them. 
Does the honorable senator . call the metropolitan council of his fellow workers in Western Australia  an isolated case ? Is the opinion of a body representing 80,000 persons in the western  State an isolated case ? That argument will . not hold water with me. It looks both ways in most awkward fashion for honorable senators who think they see the hand of the tyrant in this . matter,. Complaints have also been made about mayors receiving notices from the Federal Government with regard to the referendum. 
I have to . lodge a complaint - on the strength of rumours, it is true; but, seeing that many statements are made on the strength of rumours, I may as well be in as out of the fashion. We have, a very important centre in Western Australia, called Yorkrakine. The mayor has not been invited up to date to take action, nor has he had any notification from the Federal Government. I want to enter my protest here, as. solemnly as I can, and with all the force, at my command, against such treatment of that dignitary. It is not fair to this rising centre that ite mayor should not be treated with the same consideration as the mayors of other States. 
Honorable senators around' me who ask where Yorkrakine is have evidently not. been far " out-back." They, may have been as far as Flemington ; but even that' is not far enough to enable' them to gain " out-back " experience. They do- not know where' Yorkrakine in. I am treating this matter quite seriously in the interests of that rising and flourishing centre in the western State. I protest against the action of the Federal Government in not sending an invitation to the mayor of that classic resort to see that the common sense of that community is aroused in this great crisis. I am speaking in the interests of the pioneers of the western State, which is made up of the best men in the Commonwealth; because, after all, those who remain in this State are the people who stopped behind where the soup kitchens were some time ago. The men in the West are the men who pressed out, and are to be found in the neighbourhood of Yorkrakine. They and their families have gono to build up the prosperity that surrounds that centre of advanced civilization, culture, and prosperity in Western Australia - Yorkrakine of to-day. Again I say, according to rumour, its mayor has not received an invitation. I admit that I am going on no better foundation than rumour; but, all the same, I want to enter my earnest protest against the action of the Federal Government in not seeing that the mayor of Yorkrakine is treated with the same courtesy and consideration, and regarded' as of the same importance, as the mayor of Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, or. Adelaide. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at  5.6  p.m. 
I move - 
That the Senate at its rising adjourn until 3 p.m. on a date to be fixed by  Mr. President,  which day of meeting shall be notified by  Mr. President  to each honorable senator by telegram or letter. 
I regret that by the action of a majority present on Friday last, taken in the absence of a number of those who support the Government in wishing to referthe question of compulsory service to the people, representatives of the other States have been kept in Melbourne unnecessarily. This applies not only to those who support the referendum, but also to many who intend to appeal to the electors to reject the Government's proposal. I ask those who agreed with Ministers that the question of compulsory military service should be left to the decision of the people to vote for the motion now before the Senate. I do not appeal to those who are afraid to let the issue go before the people, or who object to the people being allowed to decide it, because.it would be useless to do that. But many who oppose compulsory service are nevertheless of the opinion that the people should have a voice on the queston, and I ask them to support the motion I have just moved, no matter what amendments may be brought forward with the object of trapping honorable senators. Friday's experience justifies us in thinking that such amendments may be moved. 
I fear that an attempt may be made to put in a false position honorable senators who oppose conscription, but nevertheless wish to support the Government in getting the issue referred to the people. I appeal to  Senator Findley  not to make such an attempt. 
It was announced that when the Referendum Bill had been carried by both Blouses, Parliament would adjourn to enable its members to place the issue fairly before the electors. I appeal to the Senate to allow that to be done, and I am confident that the majority now present will support the motion that I have moved. 
In seconding the motion, I shall take the opportunity to say some things which I might not be able tosay  later...  In.- accordance with.- an understanding arrived at on the- last day of sitting,. I made .certain arrangements for this evening and for other evenings, but certain, happenings have interfered with these arrangements, and those whose views are like my own will, therefore-, be prepared to hold the fort, and to keep those here who are looking for fight as long as they wish for it.  Senator Beady  is able, if so inclined, to lay bare the whole position, and. if he does so, the members of the Senate and- the public will- be able- to judge of the justification for the present meeting of the Senate. It has been stated by those" who opposed this special- adjournment that sufficient reasons have not been given for the. proclamation that has been issued under the Defence Act. That was an argument that came from the lips of  Senator Mullan,  on. Friday. As a representative of Western. Australia, I say that all the reasons, necessary to satisfy me? have- been- given to justify the proclamation. The State which I represent will stand behind the Commonwealth'. Government- in doing whatever- it thinks necessary for the successful, prosecution of the war:. In. that attitude, ray- State is. sound as a bell&gt; and. solid; as a rock, and- it will be well if the fact can: be. mads, known- throughout the- Commonwealth. It is useless at a crisis like this to. think one thing and. to say another. Since those of us who- have been so long in the fighting, line, who have- made, great sacrifices- for the movement that we- have helped to build, up, have been called names,, and have- had wrong- motives imputed, to- us, it is necessary to. look at the facts calmly, and- to show clearly where we stand. 
I do not wish- to be involved in personalities in-, the discussion of an issue which- calls for the best thought and the purest and highest motives of which we are capable. We should not now concern ourselves with trifles. To-day I do not put party, before country, much as I love the party to which -I am attached. For. me there is at the present time but one party, and-that is the party that intends to muster and marshal the- country and its. resources to their- utmost limit in- order to secure the successful termination".  of the was. Foi me there - is to-day only one policy; a policy containing- but. one- plank.. It is this : the war must be won, and Australia must pay current, not sweating, rates for her share of the cost of the struggle.. I speak authoritatively- regarding ' the present .position of Western- Australia. I may be called a traitor or a humbug, and other names- of reproach - the vocabulary of unpoetic epithets has been drawn upon to an unlimited extent by our opponents - but I still claim to represent Western Australia truly and absolutely. Western-. Australia, is behind the Government in what has been done, and I am behind it, too, because I know that those who form the Government have, before  now;  on many occasions, had the- utmost confidence, placed in. them. Upon their, word has depended the fate of not hundreds, but thousands', of the citizens of this country. These men-, who have been trusted in the past, and upon whose.- word the confidence of thousands has been based:, are not, in the-, opinion of Western. Australia,, men who. to.-day will be false to their trust. Therefore, it is that in Western Aus- tralia, after two and. a half days' debate, the representatives of Labour came to the conclusion by forty-one to twenty-six votes - let that ring throughout the Common-: wealth: - to stand behind the- Government. 
They are called traitors, and. by whom ? Byron- has well- said that- 
A  man  must serve bis time to ever; trade Save  censure 
Yes, they are called, traitors by the men- who would tear down,, whose composition is nothing but. that'- of- the wrecker, the men who- would ruin, and wreck this great, movement that it has taken so many long years of patient effort to build up. I am here to expose these men, and to tell them to their teeth, as Sydney Smith once said, that it requires more than earnestness of purpose to make a man a useful man. He said that there is not. a more dangerous thing, not even a Bengal' tiger with his tail in the air going through a crowded village, than is the stupid man with good intentions. At the- present time there are, I will not say stupid men, but short-sighted men, squint-eyed men with the best intentions in the world, striving to advise the people of this- Commonwealth, and in. the words of Sydney Smith, I tell them that sincerity of purpose will not carry them through;, and. they must make- way for men who see&gt; further and' more clearly than they do, and who for that reason are better fitted to steer the Commonwealth through times that are more troubled than any we ever experienced before. I fling back the epithet in the false teeth of any man or woman who dares to taunt me with being a traitor. 
I will show the honorable senator. A flood of light needs to be thrown upon what is going on to-day. Here we have Western Australia, the pioneer Labour State of Australia- 
We have scores of Victorians in Western Australia, but let me remind those men who stayed home in Victoria, in the State where the soup kitchens were while Western Australia was being developed, that that State offered them a home, and a chance for advancement, which they had not energy or opportunity enough to take advantage of in the State they left. Western Australia is the pioneer Labour State of the Commonwealth to-day. Today she has a line of steam-ships on her coast that is flying, not the house flag of a private company, but the flag of the people of Western Australia. There is an implement works there supplying every requirement from a steam engine to a garden hoe, owned and worked by the people of the State in the people's- interests. There is a State dairy farm there, and right through the list of Labour reforms there is proof that if there is any State in the Commonwealth that has translated Labour profession into practice it is Western Australia. The people have demonstrated to the world that as a Labour State Western Australia stands in the vanguard. 
Let these small men be patient for a time. I repeat that Western Australia stands in a preeminent position as the pioneer Labour State in practice and profession, and it stands behind the Federal Ministry on the present occasion. 
I say, let these people go back to Victoria and Queensland, and do -something. Here we -have the representatives of Victoria and Queensland constituting those who are in opposition to the present proposal of the Government. Western Australia has a record, and" not merely professions, mouthings, and frothings to point to as a result of its efforts in support of the Labour movement. We are here to-day to stand as a target for the taunts and slings of men who do nothing except criticise, pull down, and groan at earnest men. The critic, as Beaconsfield has said, is a man who has failed in everything else. These men come forward, and taunt me, though I come from a State that "has shown them how things can be done. 
Will these small men keep quiet. 

 - Senator Turley talks about the big man. I am a big man because I am one of those who can estimate personal 'worth, which is more than  Senator Turley  has been able to do. He had better keep quiet because there is a very large glass house surrounding him just now. When he talks about big men, I remind him that it would be better for him to keep quiet, or I may be obliged to tell him something. 
Let it resound throughout the Commonwealth that the State from which the "traitors" come is in a position that we need not be ashamed of. According to the new-found logic, fairness, and justice of Victoria and New South Wales, we are all traitors in Western Australia, or the majority of us. That is a nice position. 
If those to whom I refer have not said it in words, they have said it by acts which indicate their character. They have expelled good men, and branded them as traitors. We have not done so in Western Australia yet. The position qf Western Australia is very different from that of Victoria, where freedom is still supposed to reign. Freedom 1 We have arrived at a lovely position in this party that rose on the ruins of other crumbling parties, and whose watchword was, " Give ns liberty to  express our thoughts." In the past, men went round this country, and  Senator Findley  was one of them, telling the people over and over again that they had perfect liberty in everything outside the platform. Has  Senator Findley  liberty now? No; both he and  Senator Ferricks  are bound, and they are freely yielding to the clanking shackles, to-day as firmly as any slave ever was. They are following others as humbly as " poor dog Tray." 
I am wrong; poor dog Tray was never so humble. He was a' rampant lion compared to these men who are supposed to be free. In spite of the fact that they are indulging in taunts, and are telling the people that outside the Labour platform they are as free as air, yet on a matter within the State sphere of action, and outside the platform, they are bound and tied. Fair play ! we are just on the eve of a dissolution because our party, unfortunately, so far as the official section is concerned, is usurping the position of those tyrannical employers who in years past sent me and other members of this Chamber towards the setting sun because we wanted freedom of thought and speech. 
There is in the minds of some men such a mountain of prejudice that to dig down to the bed of reason is almost as difficult a task as the excavation of the ruins of Pompeii. Figuratively speaking, you have to hit them on the ear-hole to bring them to their senses. Let it be understood that we in Western Australia are no traitors. The representatives of that State are here to support the Government in issuing their proclamation, because we have trusted them in the past, and we know that in the present circumstances they will not prove false to their trust. 
We are told that the Senate has been brought back in order that the anti-conscriptionists may make a fight. The statement is too funny for words. This pretence of making a fight has come to them as an after-thought. There should be no after-thoughts on a great principle. If they are really fighting for principle, as they would have the people of Australia believe, they have neglected their oppor tunities. What sort of fight did- they put up when we were dealing with the Referendum Bill? You,  Mr. President,  will remember the mosquito known as the " horse grey " which inhabits the Gulf country of Queensland - a long-legged, grey, bodyless and bowelless representative of the insect fraternity, which, when it landed on its victim, shivered because it was so destitute of vitality. The fight which is being made by a section of the Senate is no better than the fight of that rheumatic mosquito. We well remember  Senator Turley  fighting in the Senate for two hours because some Queensland bandmaster could not get his uniform. We have known.  Senator Barnes  to debate at length paltry issues, but upon so vital a question as conscription they are mere shivering mosquitoes. Their hearts are not in their work, and the tragic aspect of the situation is that they wish the people to believe that their hearts are in sympathy with their tongues. What is in a man's heart is in his mind if he is sincere, and if he has anything of the make-up of a man in him he will fight for that in which he believes or submit to be called something less than a man. These men fought no better than that rheumatic mosquito in Queensland that used to suck our blood, and yet was so shivering during its attack that it could hardly hold on to its victim.  Senator Story,  to hia credit be it said, made a speech extending over eight hours in the endeavour to convince the Senate that a factory was to be .placed on the wrong site. Why did not these anti-conscriptionists do as  Senator Story  did ? If he could make an eight hours' speech on the choice of a factory site the anti-conscriptionists could have made a forty hours' speech if they had any sincerity in them. On the selection of the Federal Capital site the Senate was kept engaged all through one night and the next day, but on a question so high that we cannot visualize it mentally these men who ask the country to believe that they have made a fight fought no better than that despised specimen of the insect fraternity. 
I do not know what they have in their minds, but I know that the sons of toil in Western Australia have discussed this issue, and have viewed it from every stand-point, and in the end have said that if the Federal Government, in order to win this war, desire to introduce conscription they in Western Australia will support them. The Western Australian representatives have a record as independent men. We did not wait to hear what the people were saying.  Senator Henderson  and  Senator Buzacott  went before their supporters to face the music and give a lead. Labour leaders they were in truth and essence. These other men also call themselves Labour leaders. Heaven help us ! It is related by the French historian Lamertine that a revolutionary leader was asked why he did not check the excesses of his followers, and he replied, " I have to follow them, because I am their leader." The time was when we had Labour leaders throughout the Commonwealth, but apparently they have all gone to Western Australia. 
South Australia is an honorable exception, and I am hopeful of Tasmania. For the last 27 years I have been associated with the Labour movement, my heart has been in it, and I have believed in it, because I know that through its agency we can bring about the social regeneration of man. It is because I am a Labour man that I am a conscriptionist to-day. I say with all the sincerity of which my heart is capable that those men who are opposed to the Government policy, who have gone out of their way to revile me and mine, those foolish and designing men are about to bring the Labour movement to destruction. They, sooner than anybody else, will write its epitaph. Upon what have we relied in the past ? You,  Mr. President,  know what campaigning has meant in this country during the last 27 years, and do you mean to tell me that all the eloquence and logic which has been brought to bear on the conscription side of the argument counts for naught against the extravagant clamour of our opponents ? We have had in this country opponents of the Labour party - that party which grew, so to speak, from a grain of mustard seed into the spreading tree that it is today - who, owing to their bent of mind and their eager desire to forward the cause in which they had faith, did things which spoke in tongues of fire. Need I recall what  Mr. Walpole  did in this State when he affirmed that marriage was a luxury? There has never been a more burning, eloquent discourse delivered by a Labour man than is contained in that extravagant statement by this champion of capitalism. I am going to point an argument, which, I hope, will strike home into  Senator Barnes'  honest breast. 
Not all the eloquence of Labour representatives, not all the sacrifices endured by workers for twenty-seven years, have told so much in our favour as have the utterances of extravagant opponents in the political field. I was in the Arbitration Court in Western Australia when a leading capitalist was under examination. We asked him a question relating to women and children, and his reply was, " I do not concern myself with women and children in the running of my industry." 
SenatorLYNCH. - Let me tell  Senator Ferricks,  as plainly as language can tell him, that so far as  Mr. Watt, Mr. Cook,  and  Senator Millen  are concerned, instead of me being in their company on this question, they are in mine. I declared myself upon it eighteen months ago, so that, instead of me going to the pack, it is  Sir William  Irvine,  Senator Millen,  and  Mr. Cook  who have gone to the pack. The honorable senator taunts me with being found in their company. Why, I have seen  Senator Ferricks  in this Chamber only too eager to link himself with them, and I can cite  Hansard  in proof of my statement. 
Instead of the honorable senator's taunt having any sting for me, instead of these gentlemen having been the means of causing me to water down my principles, the position is. that they are in my company, and if any contamination has taken place they are the sufferers, and not I. I stand where I stood eighteen months ago. 
Of course it is not. But the interjection of  Senator Ferricks  shows the nature of the arguments that are being employed upon it. What I wish to point out to my comrades in this struggle is that there are no more powerful agents of the rooted, strong, and inveterate opponents of the Labour party than are men like  Senator Ferricks  and  Mr. Frank  Anstey in the other Chamber. These men to-day are the unconscious champions of capital.  Senator Ferricks  is bowed down with the weight of the burdens of our political opponents, and he doe3 not know it. So are all those who stand with him. On the other hand, the advocates of conscription know what they are doing. We do not fool the people for the sake of their votes. I told 1,500 miners at Kalgoorlie, " If you think I have come here to buy your popularity by telling you nice things that will please you, I say damn your popularity." 
Did the honorable senator ever say that at the Trades Hall  1  If he had done so, we would have had a healthier Labour movement in Australia to-day. But  Senator Findley  is bound hand and foot - he is mentally in bondage. To the everlasting credit of the men on the gold-fields, the stamp of  men who made this country, and the stamp of men who alone can hold this country, if our security is ever threatened, they heard me clean through, though they did not agree with me, and gave me an ovation on leaving, them. That is the right spirit. Western Australia has not prejudiced  Senator Findley,  but he has prejudiced the representatives of Western Australia. He has put us in an impossible position from our point of view. I realize that we are not at the parting of the ways, but that we shall be rushing headlong, to a precipice if the official heads of Labour in some of the States prevail. It is only because I know that the heart of Labour throughout the Commonwealth is sound, while the official head, in at least three States, is rotten, that I believe that those who were once Labour leaders will be wade to feel their feeble position, their plain dereliction of duty, and made also to think what they are about. But they will have to give a lead to the rank and file of the movement, as  Senator Findley  did once. What is he now ? He is like " poor dog Tray." He is following on. These men look for a lead because, by reason of their occupations, they are not able to weigh the pros and cons of a mighty problem like this. Where .do they get their lead? From the French political leader, who led from behind. 
Oh, liberty ! God help us if the Labour movement is to have such leaders. 
I am not careful  about  anything. What are the thoughts in the minds of the anti-conscriptionists? The thoughts of their greatgreatgrandfathers at a time when women and children were employed in the mines. 
My honorable friends are thinking the thoughts of their great-great-grandfathers on this question. 
Is it any use talking after an interjection like that? As I say, these men are thinking the thoughts of their great-grandfathers, who lived in the days when there was child and woman labour in the mines, and transportation to Australia for stealing a sheep. The system which they advocate never was good enough to win the battles of England, for in the days of the Peninsular War the British Government went abroad for mercenaries to the number of 54,000. 
I know that what I say hurts, but I ask honorable members not to squeal, for if the Indians are coming to fight for them they will be all right. 
Order ! 
 Mr. Hughes  said that, and it is in  Hansard. 
The matured and best intelligence of Western Australia is with me in the stand I am now taking. Australia, I recognise, is the greatest and- freest country on God's earth. I have lived under the American, the French, and other flags, but it is here that I breathe the true atmosphere of freedom - that glorious freedom which has enabled some of the opponents of conscription to rise from the lower strata in the social sphere. It is our duty to take no chances or risks, but to see that the liberty we now enjoy is preserved for future generations. We require leaders to-day - men who are prepared to drop the party blinkers altogether. How many parties are there in Great Britain to-day on this war issue? How many parties are there in France? How many in Belgium; and how many in Italy? How many? Only one party. How many were behind Washington when he fought for and won. the independence of his country; and how many -behind Lincoln, when, by the instrumentality of a measure similar to this proclamation, he effected the emancipation of slavery in his country? There was only one party, and thus in this great crisis, as a Labour man, and as one recognising that if freedom goes everything is lost, I stand for conscription and equality of service. Otherwise we shall have the iron hand of the foreign aggressor on this free Australia of ours. It is because I have recognised this fact that for the last eighteen months I have been advocating a change of policy in order that Australia should play a manly part in this gigantic struggle. 
We have close upon a quarter of a million men under arms. Surely that is fair evidence that we are at war. And having that number of soldiers at the front, it is unquestionably our duty to stand close beside the allied nations. Will Australia be content to allow other comrade nations to fight her battles? These men who are opposed to conscription say, "Yes," but I say "No," because when victory is won, Australia will cover herself with immortal and indelible shame if, not having done her fair share in the struggle, she seeks the fruits of victory. And if, in such circumstances, it were possible for me to stand in the position of the British Empire, when an appeal came from Australia in her hour of peril, I would say to Australia, " What did you do when we wanted your assistance? What did you do for us when we were fighting for you in Flanders? You put up a fight of a kind, it is true, but you did not put up your best fight. From charitable motives we may assist you, but, as a matter of right, you are not entitled to any assistance at all." 
According to your argument, Australia has done nothing. 
Some members of the Labour party call themselves Socialists. But what are they doing in regard to the present struggle? What are they doing to assist  Leibknecht  who, with Homeric valour, has for so long stood up to the military despotism of Prussia ? I ask again, what are they doing in this struggle except to prevent help being sent to their fellow Socialists in France and Italy? 
That is a ,poor compliment for what Australia has done. 
Thank God, I have still a spark of manhood in me. In this struggle we need to put up our greatest effort. We have to put up a manly effort, and unmanliness is as foreign to the Australian as virtue is to the serpent. We need to do our best, so that no Frenchman or Britisher who may meet us hereafter will be entitled to say to us, " You did not do your fair share." As one who has travelled over thousands of miles of this country, I know that every Australian desires, above all things, to be independent, and to be able to look the wide world in the face. Australians will never consent to place themselves in such a position that, in our hour of danger, others will be able to say to us, " You did not do your share, you did not play the game, and now that you are in trouble you can fight your own battles." Those men of our party who think that they are the soothsayers of the hour are the unconscious enemies of the country. It is because I want the Labour movement to progress, and because I desire that the freedom of this country shall be preserved, that I advocate, with all the power that I can command, the action for which the proclamation provides. I regret that I have detained the Senate so long. I have spoken, as is usual with me, in the calmest language I can command, and I trust that what I have said will have a beneficial effect on those of my party who differ from me on this question. Even if my remarks represent only a grain of seed dropped by the wayside, I hope that that grain will have fallen on fertile soil, and that it will germinate and fructify. 
After the hysterical outburst - the speech, or screech - in which  Senator Lynch  has just indulged, I think it is about time we got down to business and discussed the main question. Before proceeding to do so, however, I should like to puncture one of the arguments used by the honorable senator, who, I regret to say, has had to leave to catch a train. Had he remained, I should have dealt with other points raised by him; but I do not wish to be unfair by referring to them in his absence. The honorable senator said that the people of Western Australia were solidly behind the Government and behind conscription. I deny that. I saw a telegram from a Western Australian gold-fields centre in which it was stated that the anti-conscriptionists would win by four to one. 
The same remark might well have been addressed to  Senator Lynch.  One of the biggest meetings ever known on the gold-fields of Western Australia was held at the Boulder last Saturday night in support of an anticonscriptionist, who is fighting  Mr. Scaddan,  and who has every prospect of beating him. It is just as well that  Senator Lynch  and others from Western Australia, who say that that State is solidly in favour of conscription, should not count their chickens before they are hatched. The honorable senator threw out a challenge which I am quite prepared to take up, and in doing so I am sure I shall receive the support of many others. I hope we shall get a majority to support the meeting of the. Senate from day to day throughout this campaign, so that we may thresh cub this question. I should like the Senate to continue its sittings so that we may keep  a  watch on the Government. If the Government could play such trickery as that resorted to last Friday, when the Senate was actually sitting, what would it not do when Parliament was not in session?  I  should like to say, in passing, that there was no trickery in connexion with the amendment carried last Friday. Those who supported it were seized of their duties and responsibilities. 
SenatorReady.  -  And knew that " the other fellow " was away. 
It was the honorable senator's duty to see that " the other fellow " was not  away.  Those who remained here last Friday afternoon realized that the Government were about to evade their responsibilities to the Parliament and the people. 
Every honorable senator is seized of his own responsibilities, and knows his own business. We realized that the Government were not complying with the laws of the country - that they were endeavouring to evade them - and it was in order to bring them before the bar of public opinion, and to expose their tactics, that we decided to  bring honorable senators back to-day. A proclamation was issued last Friday, and, but for the questions that were raised cn the motion for the adjournment of the Senate, we should have known  nothing  about that proclamation until the Senate had been closed down. Regulations had also been issued in connexion with the proclamation, and we should have had no opportunity to discuss them but for the action of those who were responsible for the adjournment of the Senate until to-day. What is the law on the subject ? 
I know as much about it as Chief Justice Pearce, and, unlike him, am not advised by an army of clerks. 
I wish the honorable senator would be as candid regarding his administration of the Defence Department. Section 46 of the Defence Act provides - 
The Governor-General may, in time of war, by proclamation, call out the Citizen Forces, or any part thereof, for active service. 
The proclamation shall state the reason For calling out the Forces. 
If the Parliament is sitting, the reason for calling out the Forces shall forthwith be communicated by the Governor-General to both Houses of the Parliament. 
If the Parliament is not sitting at the date of the issue of the proclamation, it shall be summoned to meet within ten days after that date. 
As it happened, Parliament was sitting. It was therefore incumbent upon the Government, who are, in effect, the GovernorGeneral, to give to Parliament before it rose last Friday, or before we rise to-day, the reasons for calling out the Forces. Why was this not done? 
I will leave the honorable senator to answer his own silly question. Of course, Parliament is sitting, but the reasons have not yet been communicated to Parliament, and I claim that they ought to be. The truth is that :he Government were unable to give the reasons. They have called up the men ostensibly for home service under the Defence Act, but really they want them for service abroad. They gave no reasons, because they could not be candid and frank, and a proclamation which should have come before us last Friday was carefully locked up in a safe by somebody, until, as  aranged,  so I understand, Parliament was shut up. But there were other people alive to the situation as well as the Prime Minister and  Senator Pearce.  Section 60 of the Defence Act distinctly provides that, if Parliament is not sitting at the date of the issue of the proclamation, it shall be summoned to meet within ten days after that date. It is clear that if Parliament is sitting, Parliament should have all the information in connexion with the proclamation, and the reasons for issuing it, and that, if Parliament is not sitting, it must be called together within ten days. If Parliament had not been sitting, would any one argue, that we should not be called together, and what should we be called together for except to hear the reasons for the proclamation ? It, therefore, undoubtedly follows that when Parliament is sitting it must be given those reasons. I have tried to get some legal opinions on this matter. 
It would not be necessary for an egotistical gentleman like the Minister for Defence, but a humble layman like myself considered it necessary to consult men with trained legal minds. I have gone to the trouble to obtain legal opinions on the proclamation, and shall submit them for the benefit of honorable senators. I put the question whether the proclamation was constitutional to  Mr. Alfred  W. Foster, barrister-at-law, Selbourne Chambers, Melbourne ; Maurice Blackburn, M.L.A., barrister-at-law, Melbourne; and Frank Brennan, LL.B., M.H.R., barrister and solicitor, Melbourne.  Mr. Foster  says - 
In my opinion, the proclamation is invalid, and, consequently, of no effect. My reason for so stating is that the  proclamatory  power of the Governor-General is a matter dependent entirely upon the commission constituting his office, and upon any Statute conferring such power. There is no power to call out the citizens for military service under his commission, and the power conferred under the Defence Act is to be exercised only in strict conformity with that Act, and, so far as the published statements of responsible Ministers have gone, the conditions of the Defence Act have not been complied with. If this be so, the proclamation must be held to be invalid. 
I hope I am not like my honorable friend in that respect.  Mr. Brennan  said - 
I have read  Mr. Foster's  opinion regarding the scope and effect of the proclamation, and I agree with the view stated by him. 

 Mr. Blackburn's opinion was ; 
The power of the Governor-General to issue a proclamation calling upon persons liable to serve in the Citizen Forces to enlist and servo as prescribed can only be exercised in " time of war." " War," in the Defence Act, has a special definition to mean " invasion or apprehended invasion of, or apprehended attack on, the Commonwealth, or any Territory under the control of the Commonwealth by an enemy or armed force." Admittedly the powers are not being exercised in a time of " war," according to the foregoing definition, and are, consequently, an abuse of the Defence Act. 
That is the legal view under the Defence Act. According to those opinions, the proclamation is invalid, and I believe that if a man were to disobey it he would be within his rights. 
I am not advising any one to do so, or in any way suggesting it. I am simply pointing out that, in view of the opinions I have just read, fortified by the language of the Defence Act, which is very explicit on the question, a man who disobeys the law in that regard would, I believe, be discharged by any honest tribunal. Leaving the proclamation, which is apparently invalid, and coming to the regulations, I understand that the regulation issued on Saturday last, Statutory Rule No. 20, has not yet been tabled, although the Senate is sitting to-day. The Government are not tabling it simply because they want to prevent the Senate passing an opinion on it. They know they can delay tabling it for fourteen days, and they know also that, in order to disallow it, we must keep Parliament open for fourteen days, and it may be necessary to do so. The Government are sheltering themselves behind the law. The Minister for Defence, who is primarily responsible for these regulations, seeks to save himself from public opinion and from being challenged in the Senate as to whether they are just or otherwise. 
I propose to deal with that regulation later, and to give honorable senators an opportunity of approving or otherwise of these Prussian importations. 
Yes; the thumbprint regulation comes from Prussia. 
No; it comes from the Prussian army. Evidently the Minister has copied it from Prussia. 
Section 75 of the Defence Act says - 
Any person who - 
fails to enlist when required by this Act so to do; or 
counsels or aids any person, called upon by proclamation to enlist in the Citizen Forces, to fail to enlist or to evade enlistment; or 
counsels or aids any person who has enlisted or who is liable to enlist in any part of the Defence Force not to perform any duty he is required by this Act to perform, shall be liable to imprisonment, with or without hard labour, for any period not exceeding six months. 
No one can take exception to that penalty so long as the person who is accused has the opportunity of attempting to prove his innocence; but the Government have gone further, and have practically violated that right which an accused person always has. Under a regulation which they have just issued, a man arrested for any of these offences can be interned without the opportunity of putting up a defence. The regulation overrides the provisions of section 75. 
They have power to do many things, and they would do them but for the fact that there are some people who would challenge their actions. It is cruel that the Government should violate the spirit of the law in this way. These new regulations were issued on Saturday, and I had some difficulty in securing a copy of them, although there are plenty of copies available to-day. Section 9 of these regulations says - 
Any person liable to enlist who, having received a notice referred to in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, fails to attend at the time and place directed by the military registrar or assistant military registrar shall be guilty of an offence. 
Penalty: Imprisonment for six months. 
Where a person liable to enlist has been sent a notice referred to in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, and has failed to attend in accordance with the notice, a military registrar or assistant military registrar may, by writing under his hand, authorize any member of the Defence Force or of the police force of a State to arrest him and convey him to such training centre or depét as he directs. 
The Minister cannot get away from the point that under this regulation a man may be arrested and taken to a military depot before he has had an opportunity of proving his innocence. No man should be interned before he has had an opportunity of appearing before a Court. I do not say that the man himself should be the judge of his liability; but I cannot see why a registrar should 'have the power to say that any person should be interned or dragged by a policeman or a military officer to a military camp. Before any man is condemned he should first be tried. 
Never mind whom I am referring to. The Government have never had the power that they assume under this regulation. Why should they assume it now ? 
Not under section 75, which I have just quoted. 
Does the Minister think it fair that a man should be dragged to a military camp without first being taken before a Court? Instead of summoning him to attend before a Court to answer a charge, it is proposed to send along a military officer or a policeman, and arrest him. 
A man may break the law in a hundred ways and not be arrested. 
I would not be arrested if I gave sureties for my appearance in the Court on the following day. In hundreds of cases proceedings are taken by way of summons, but in this case, without any question of first establishing a man's guilt, he is to betaken to a military depot and practically interned. No Labour Government should send a man to gaol or intern him before he has been heard in his defence. No matter how the Minister seeks to explain the matter away, he cannot avoid the charge that this man will be liable to what is practically gaoling - because an internment camp would be as bad as a gaol - before he is heard in his defence ; and no honorable senator should allow a Government to enforce such a regulation until Parliament has had an opportunity of assenting to it or otherwise. Now I come to the pernicious system that has been introduced - the thumb-print - to be succeeded, I suppose, by the thumb-screw a little later. This is a nice sample of the Prussianism that is being inaugurated by a Labour Government. The second paragraph of regulation 74 says that the military registrar or his assistant shall, "after taking the thumb or finger prints of the applicant "- 
Applicant to enlist. 
I shall make the whole matter clear to honorable senators. 
I do not care what it applies to. This is the first time in Australia that the obnoxious system of taking thumb-prints has been proposed in connexion with free men. It is a system that has hitherto been used only for the identification of criminals. 
It is proposed to regard all these men as criminals. Why not take every one's thumb print? Let me read some of the regulations - 
. . . 
The military registrar or assistant military registrar shall, after noting the application iri his register, and after taking imprints on the discharge certificate of the applicant's right and left thumbs, or if the applicant has had the misfortune to lose same, or to have had his thumbs so mutilated as to prevent this, then such two of his remaining fingers as will admit of prints being taken, attach the discharge certificate to the application form, and forward same to the staff officer for returned soldiers for the military district in which the applicant resides. . . . 
. . . 
The military registrar or assistant registrar shall, after taking the thumb or finger prints, as the case may be, of the applicant, as prescribed in regulation 80, forward 'the application to the staff officer for invalids for the military district in which the applicant resides. . . . 80. (1) For the purposes of identification thumb-prints shall be taken of the palmar surface of both thumbs, but if the palmar surface of one or both thumbs should be damaged, then the print shall be taken of the index finger or fingers, as the case may be. Those provisions are conclusive evidence that the Government intend to introduce into Australia the pernicious system of taking the thumb-prints of free men, and I have no doubt that, before long, we shall have the military authorities adopting the thumb-screw as well. This is simply Prussianism. In. the Prussian army, every man has his finger-prints taken. These gentlemen who are fighting, and who should be trying to destroy Prussianism- 
I hope the Minister is. 
So am I, and I am doing it just as effectively as is the Minister. One of the strongest arguments in support of conscription was that the men in the trenches should get a fair deal ; that they should be relieved oftener. It was said that it was a shame that men who had come back here should be sent again to fight. The Government, however, are actually providing in these regulations that discharged soldiers shall be called up just like every one else. They are to have no exemption and no privilege. If we are going to have conscription - I do not think that we are - those who have been to the front, and have returned, should be given some privilege. 
I am dealing now with those who have come back from the front. This is what the Government propose in regard to them - 
A person who has been discharged from the Australian Imperial Force, and who is a member of a class called up for enlistment and service by a proclamation made by the GovernorGeneral under section 60 of the Defence Act, shall  bo  liable for enlistment and service, unless he has been exempted in accordance with these regulations. 
Of course he would not be exempt in accordance with these regulations if he were physically fit. I claim that those who have come back are entitled to some privilege. One of the strongest reasons used to get the Referendum Bill through the two Houses was that these men should have a chance, and should not be required to go back again. 
The statement was made in both Houses. It was made by all the advocates of conscription. It was said to be unfair that men who had come back should be forced to go to the front again while others were allowed to remain here. 
Men are now being called up contingent upon the electors voting for conscription. Should conscription be carried, discharged men will not be exempt; they will have no privilege. 
As I believe that the Government have tried to side-track the Senate in regard to the proclamation that has been issued, and have not given us an opportunity to discuss and, should we think fit, disallow the regulations that have been issued, I think that we should take certain action. Every man who helps  Senator Pearce  to get into recess now must be taken to approve of the first step towards conscription, namely, the issue of the proclamation calling up men. He must be taken also to be in favour of every one of the regulations that have been issued. He must be regarded as voting for the thumb-print system, and as wishing to imprison men without trial. I intend to put the acid on this Senate, so that the public may see where the responsibility lies. 
I am delighted to have been asked that question. I shall put the issue fairly before the Senate. 
It is provided that regulations under the Defence Act must be laid before Parliament, if it be sitting, within fifteen days of their issue, and most other regulations within thirty days. Either House of Parliament has the right to disallow any regulation within a prescribed time. Now the Senate is so placed that it cannot deal with the regulations which I have been criticising, because the Government have skilfully prevented it by not laying the regulations on the table. But these regulations must be laid on the table within fifteen days if we continue to sit, and  Senator Watson,  or any other honorable senator who may disagree with any of them, can move to disallow it if he compels the Senate to continue sitting for another fourteen days. The course which I am about to take is not intended to put him or any other honorable senator in an awkward position. My object is to let the people of Australia know the little scheme of the Government, and to show them that some members of the Senate are prepared to do what they can to defeat it. To put  Senator Watson  and others in the right, if they desire it. by giving them an opportunity to disallow any regulation, I move - 
That all the words after the word " on " be left out, with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words " Tuesday next." 
If the Senate rejects the amendment, we shall know how honorable senators stand. Those who vote against it must be taken as voting for the proclamation andfor the regulations, and as indorsing every regulation. 
That would not be effective. The Senate would adjourn for some weeks, and there would be no opportunity to disallow any of the regulations. The course which I propose is the only one which will give  Senator Watson  and every other honorable senator the opportunity to disallow these regulations. 
Had the Government been straightforward, had they done what they should have done in an important matter like this, the regulations would have been laid on the table. They are dated 29th September, and are signed by the GovernorGeneral and " G.F. Pearce, Minister for Defence." Why were they not laid on the table last Friday? It may be said that there was not then a copy of them available. Even though that may be so, they could have been laid on the table today, because I was able to get a copy of them yesterday from the Government Printer. Every one knows why the regulations have not been laid on the table. The Minister for Defence is afraid that the Senate might disallow some of these Prussian regulations, which provide for the taking of thumb-prints and the imprisoning of men without trial. I did not intend to deal with these regulations at length ; this action was forced on me. My amendment gives the Senate the only opportunity it can get of discussing and disallowing the regulations should it so desire. 
I second the amendment, and I am pleased that  Senator Mullan  has moved it. It is inconceivable that regulations of the important nature of those which have just been issued should be kept from Parliament. In Saturday evening's Melbourne  Herald  I noticed, under great headlines, statements to the following effect : - 
On Monday every single man and widower without children between twenty-one and thirtyfive years of age in Australia will automatically be called to the colours, and may be retained in the ranks until the end of the war. Those affected must report in alphabetical precedence at the places and hours mentioned in the advertised lists. There will be a preliminary medical examination at the places of enlistment, and a final examination at the camps or elsewhere. Finger-prints will be taken to identify the men. 
That statement was made public through the press on the Saturday. Seeing that the Senate was to meet to-day, it was only reasonable for us to assume that the Minister for Defence would, as his first action this afternoon, have tabled these regulations. If they can be given to the country through the press, it is unreasonable that they should be denied to the members of this branch of the "National Parliament. The proclamation and the gist of the regulations were telegraphed to the InterState newspapers on Friday, while the Senate was sitting, but the Minister of Defence, for reasons best known to himself, but which seem a little suspicious, as though he were afraid that they would be discussed or criticised, neglected to table them in the Senate. That is a position .which I do not think any Government can justify. The Minister for Defence talked of honorable senators responsible for the sitting to-day "trapping" other members of the Senate, but in saying that I thought he was living very convenient to a glass house. These regulations are of serious moment to the people of Australia, in view of the unprecedented action that has been taken in the issue of the proclamation, and in view df its consequences. In addition to those enumerated by my colleague,  Senator Mullan,  there are a number of other regulations to which I think public attention should be called. Regulation 8 provides that - 
All officers in the service of the Commonwealth and of any State, and all officers in "the service of any local governing body, are authorized and required to furnish to a military registrar all such information as is required relative to the liability for military service of any person liable to serve. 
By that regulation the Government are throwing upon every public servant of the Commonwealth or a State, and every servant of a local governing body, a responsibility which, in many cases, they will be unable to fulfil. The regulation has a subtle savour of the introduction of the informer, or spy, system amongst Australians. By what right is one of these officers to supply to a military registrar his opinion of John Smith's qualifications for home service ? It is not fair to the public officer, nor is it fair to the men called up for service. Surely the military organization of Australia should be sufficiently elastic to do all that is required of it without the creation of what might be called a subsidiary organization of public servants to assist it. This appears to me to be an extension of the hateful secret service institution which I suppose is considered necessary in war time 
-The reference is to the liability to military service of any person liable to serve. 
It might depend on many other things. Under this regulation, military registrars may ask. a registrar of births, or a shire clerk, his opinion regarding any man in his district. The military have no right to make such requests. 
Yes ; but no one is forced to give the honorable senator official information. 
Quite so; but no information could be forced from public servants . such as might be forced from them under this regulation. I say that these public servants have not the opportunity to enable them to express opinions as to a man's liability to serve. Regulation No. 13, dealing with members of the Australian Imperial Force, has already been briefly touched upon by  Senator Mullan.  I find that under regulation 17 it is provided that - 
A military representative, but not more than one, shall have the right to appear as a party to every application heard by a local exemption Court. 
Neither party shall be represented by counsel, or solicitor, or paid agent. 
It will be within the recollection of honorable senators that a few days ago I questioned the Minister for Defence concerning the appearance of counsel in the exemption Courts. The Minister was not then so definite concerning the refusal of counsel as he is in this regulation. Neither counsel nor paid agent is to be allowed to appear in these exemption Courts. That is all right, as it applies to both sides, but under the regulation a representative of the military is to be before the Court as a party to each application. 
That is so. He is made a party to an application by any person who desires exemption. That is a lop-sided arrangement. Is it another instance of the democracy of conscription? A military officer, who by virtue of hia calling must be well informed on every question that is likely to arise, is to be a party to each application. John Smith, the wharf labourer, going before the Police Magistrate, is confronted by a military officer, with all his decorations and plumes, and attended probably by an orderly or a couple of orderlies, who is to have the right to state the case to the magistrate against John Smith's application. 
If that be so,  why should not the matter be left between the magistrate and John Smith? 
No; he would be the adjudicator. 
No; I agree with the Minister for Defence in preventing the appearance of counsel or paid agent in the exemption Courts. 
No; that is what I am objecting to now. I say it is totally undemocratic, and it is unnecessary. 
The application for exemption is lodged before an independent tribunal, and why should either party, then, be given a privilege? 
I consider this regulation neither  democratic  nor fair. In my view, it has been drafted to have a detrimental effect upon applications for exemptions which might be very generally made. I refer honorable senators now to clause 3 of regulation 20 - 
When an application can be more conveni ently dealt with by another local exemption Court than by the local exemption Court to which the application has been made, the former Court may, on the application of either of the parties, hear the application, and the Court to which the application was originally made shall forthwith refer the application to the other Court. 
I take strong exception.to that provision. 
Yes, it is the power to change the venue. I was about to remark that it was one of the blackest of the many blots in  Sir William  Irvine's Coercion Act at the time of the railway strike in Victoria. 
I was coming to that. In the shearers' strike of 1891 in Queensland, men charged with the heinous offence of having gone on strike were taken away to places where the prosecuting authority felt sure that they would be sent along to the penal establishment at St. Helena. 
-Quite so. They always made sure of their juries. The arrangement of the panel was always carefully planned. The railway men who went on strike in Victoria were confronted with this danger: If the Government were not satisfied with the measure of severity that would be handed out in a particular district to those whom they prosecuted, they had the power to change the venue to any part of Victoria. This is a very dangerous power to invest in the military authorities. When we consider the rate at which they have been advancing since the agitation for conscription was set up, we can imagine to what length the military caste in Australia will go if given the unbridled licence which they will enjoy under the conscription system. It is absolutely essential that public attention should be drawn to these regulations. The members of the Senate who secured the adjournment on Friday to the present sitting performed a public duty to the people of Australia. I was rather surprised at the attitude adopted by the Minister for Defence when the Senate met to-day. Before waiting to see whether honorable senators desired to ask questions, or to have an opportunity to discuss matters of vital importance, the Minister at once moved that the Senate, at its rising, adjourn to a date to be fixed by the  President. 
Getting in first in that way appeared to me to be very much like a trick.  Senator Story  comes from South Australia, and sharp practice is, therefore, not new to him. 
I say that my visit to Adelaide was educational. It confirmed the view I always held of the danger of leaving the destinies of the Labour movement in the hands of politicians. Under regulation 35, an application for exemption may be made on the ground that serious hardship would ensue if a man were called up for military service owing to his exceptional domestic or financial obligations. This is one of the grounds upon which exemptions may be applied for. I mention it now that it may be given due publicity. I know that many people in Australia may be involved, as they have to live upon modest wages, and it is due to them that the existence of this regulation should be made known. It is quite conceivable that many of them have not had an opportunity of reading the regulations, as we have had a brief opportunity of doing. I say feelingly that we owe no thanks to the Government for that opportunity. In regard to regulation 80, dealing with thumb-prints, I think the Minister contended by interjection that this system is to apply to exemption certificates only. The regulation reads - 80. (1) For the purposes of identification, thumb-prints shall be taken of the palmar surface of both thumbs, but if the palmar surface of one or both thumbs should be damaged, then the print shall be taken of the index finger or fingers, as the case may be. 
The prints shall be made on the edge of the attestation form, on a certificate of exemption, and, in the case of a person who is unfit for military service, on the medical certificate of unfitness. 
That is the point upon which I desire to be clear. Although nothing can make us wonder in these days, it would have been inconceivable that persons who had merely enlisted should have had to leave an imprint of their thumbs in the hands of the military authorities. But even in regard to those who have been granted exemption, can it be seriously contended that such an extreme precaution is necessary? I assume that the reason for that drastic regulation is the fear that persons might trade in the exemption certificates. If that assumption is correct, the Government are paying a very poor compliment to the Australian people. 
I hardly think that a man who had been granted exemption would dispose of his certificate to another, and so render himself liable to be called up again. 
I agree that the military organization should be sufficiently safeguarded in its operations to prevent cases such as the Minister has indicated. But we know that the secret service system in Australia, as in every other country which is at war, is conducted on deeplaid lines. Nobody is able to discover what persons in the community are members of the secret service., That is illustrated by a Queensland case which we brought under the notice of the Minister for Defence. An Australian had been interned on the ground of disloyalty. During the Brisbane strike, in 1912, this man was a relentless critic of those men who acted as special constables or scabs, and he maintained that attitude subsequently. He was employed at the Ipswich Railway Workshops, and I believe that a conspiracy was hatched by some of the persons whom he had criticised in order to bring about hia internment. That man, Richard Gehrmann by name, went to school with me, and so far as I know there is as much German sympathy in him as there is in me. At our request the Minister granted an inquiry. Then I asked the Minister if the man might know the grounds upon which he was charged. The Minister replied, "No; the evidence will be given at the inquiry." When the man was interned, he was not charged with the statements which he is alleged to have made, but only the vaguest information was conveyed to him as to why he was under arrest. When granting the inquiry the Minister for Defence told us that even if the Court of inquiry found in favour of the man, he, as Minister, would come to a decision, not only on the evidence adduced at the inquiry, but also on the evidence supplied to him by members of the secret service. I asked the Minister if it would not be fair to supply the man with information as to the statements he was alleged to have made, so that he might have an opportunity of either denying or confirming them. But the Minister told me, and I suppose his answer was feasible enough, that if such information were imparted, the whole secret service would break down. John Smith would be informed of the charge laid against him by members of the secret service; he would remember having made the remark and, consequently, he would gain an inkling as to what persons were members of the secret service. That just illustrates again the democracy of warfare and military rule. 
We have found to our cost the mistake we made in reposing that trust in a so-called Labour Government. 
Well, I will call it the Hughes Government. When a man is charged with having made certain statements, the least he might expect, in a freedom-loving country like Australia, is that he might be told what is the allegation against him. 
No. 
We endeavoured to wait on the Minister for Defence a second time in connexion with this matter, but he refused to receive a deputation. It was the Minister who told me that, in addition to the evidence given at the inquiry, he would consider the evidence of the secret service. 
Yes. But the Minister said that he could not make known to us, or the man charged, the intelligence he had received from the secret service. Therefore, I say it is dangerous to give any Government wide drag-net powers, such as are contained in these regulations. 
Oh, yes. 
I do not think that any such inference can be drawn from my remarks, which are intended to show that the secret service is a necessary, but evil, part of the military system, and I believe the evil will be multiplied a hundredfold in the application of conscription. The exemption ques'tion will present many difficulties, and I was much impressed by the following paragraph in last night's Melbourne  Herald - 
One of the police magistrates who has been appointed to deal with applications for exemption suggested to-day that, in order to secure uniformity in decisions when reasons were practically similar, certain cases should be adjourned to permit of magistrates meeting at night and conferring. The magistrate said that heartburnings would be caused if one applicant were denied exemption in one district for reasons which were considered sufficient to warrant exemption in another district. If procedure were as near as possible similar in all Courts, there would be no ground for complaint. 
Then he added this significant addendum - 
It was easy to say that a higher Court could be appealed to, but appeals were not always practicable, even for people with meritorious cases. 
There we have an admission by one of the magistrates appointed to deal with these applications for exemptions that appeals sometimes are not practicable, even when the case is meritorious. That is a very serious statement from a responsible source, and it just emphasizes how careful we must be if there is to be any approach to justice in the operation of the exemption Courts. Like other members of the Senate, I was considerably entertained this afternoon by the speech of  Senator Lynch,  who, I regret to say, has been called away to Ballarat to address a conscription meeting in conjunction with  Mr. Watt.  The honorable senator was hardly doing me justice when he stated that I advocated the hiring of other people to fight for Australia. I interjected at the time that his leader,  Mr. Hughes,  had expressed himself in favour of that policy. It has been stated repeatedly, without any attempt to produce proof or argument in support, that Australia was depending on conscript countries to fight its battles. I think Australia has done remarkably well. I do not wish to reiterate my previously expressed opinions in that regard, but it is necessary to point out again that Australian volunteers at Gallipoli did much to assist Russia by holding the Turks at bay when the Russians were sorely pressed, and a flank attack by the Turks would have done much injury to them. Therefore, Australian volunteers can claim to have done something material to assist those of our Allies who have conscription in force. On 31st July, 1901, as will be seen by reference to  Hansard,  page 3298,  Mr. Hughes  said - 
I would not compel any man to serve in the militia who was desirous of evading service, if he chooses to pay a tax for the maintenance of some one to serve in his place. Any man who, because of religious scruples, business interests, or any other reason, was unwilling to serve, should be exempted from service, provided he pays a capitation tax. 
Serious words, coming as they did from the leader of  Senator Lynch  in the present conscription campaign.  Mr. Hughes  would have exempted any person provided that person were willing to pay a capitation tax. Surely that is a very significant statement for the present Prime Minister to have made fifteen years ago. He continues - 
I lay down as a basic proposition that it is the first duty of every man to defend his country, and if he is not willing to do so, he should pay somebody else for doing it. 
I do not think that  Senator Newland  ever heard me voice such  sentiments. I say that the system then enunciated by  Mr. Hughes  was a vicious one, which was formulated in the interests of the wealthy people. 
I observe that  Mr. Hughes  then, as now, prated of Democracy, and gave utterance to almost identical sentiments. The situation appealed to me as a remarkable one, evidencing, as it did, how nearly a public man can adhere to the actual words used by him a long time previously. The quotation which I have made is an appropriate reply to  Senator Lynch's  unfounded allegations. I have here another utterance of the present Prime Minister, which deals with the payment of soldiers who may be called up for home- service. We have been repeatedly assured that under .conscription the Government will not tolerate any change in the payment of our troops - that all will receive the same rate of pay, regardless of the duration of the war. What were the sentiments of  Mr. Hughes  on this matter as expressed by him on the -5th August, 1903, when the Defence Bill was under consideration ? On page 3094 of  Hansard  he is thus reported - 
My amendment provides that all males between eighteen and twenty-one years shall be called upon to present themselves for fourteen days' training in each year. These men number, according to the information furnished by the Government Statistician, about 108,000, of whom we may presume that about 100,000 would bo at our call. 

 Mr. Higgins. ; Are the men to go into barracks ? 

 Mr. HUGHES. I propose that they shall present themselves at such places as may be determined upon, not all at once, but in such numbers as may he considered convenient. 

 Mr. McCay. Are they to be paid? 

 Mr. HUGHES. Most emphatically, no. 

 Sir John Forrest. I suppose they are to have rifles and ammunition? 

 Mr. HUGHES. Undoubtedly ; the basic idea of my amendment is that it is the duty of every citizen to fit himself for the defence of the Commonwealth. The Minister proposes to take the  power to  make a levy  en masse in  times of danger. He does not propose to pay the whole of those who respond to that call. 

 Sir John FORREST Oh, yes, we must pay them. 

 Mr. HUGHES. Surely not. The Minister has power to call upon every male inhabitant of Australia, except those who are exempt from service - that is, those who are already in the Defence Forces - and who have resided for six months in the Commonwealth, and aTe British subjects, and who are between the ages of eighteen and sixty, to serve in the  militia. It is inconceivable that when the whole nation has to respond to a call to arms, every man should be paid. 
According to  Mr. Hughes,  it  was  inconceivable that men, upon being called up for home service - as they are ostensibly being called up to-day  -  should be paid. He continued - 
On the very face of it, such an idea is absurd. Therefore, since the principle of general conscription is introduced, the Minister, and not I, must bear the odium of its introduction, if there he any. 
He affirmed that no odium should attach to him by reason of the payment of these men. He proceeded - 
The Minister surely does not propose to pay the population upon a levy  en masse? 

 Sir John Forrest Yes, I do. Subclause 2 of clause 20 provides for that. 

 Mr. HUGHES. The authorities will have the right to call every one out. Does the Minister propose that every one called out .shall be paid? 

 Sir John Forrest. Yes; but I do not say how much. 
All of which goes to prove that the idea in the mind of  Mr. Hughes  was that these men should not be paid. I wish to emphasize my contention by quoting still another passage from the speech of  Mr. Hughes  on the same occasion, which will be found on page 3097 of  Hansard  of 5th August, 1903. It reads - 
The amendment, if agreed to, would provide an ample and efficient Defence Force, and the expense of carrying it into effect would not be serious. All that would be necessary would be to purchase a few more rifles, and to provide a little extra for the services of instructional officers and the holding of camps. 

 Sir John FORREST Does the honorable member propose to pay those who are in course of training? 

 Mr. HUGHES I have already said that I do not. If I did propose to pay thom, the right honorable gentleman would tell the Committee that it would cost, perhaps, ?500,000 a year to do so, and would ask honorable members if they are prepared to vote so large an amount of money. We do not pay men for doing their duty to the State by recording their votes, although in New South  Wales, and, I suppose, in Victoria too, thousands of men lose a day's work at every general election.  Why, then, should we pay men for doing their duty in regard to the defence of their country? 
I venture to assert that if we could get an exposition of the innermost soul of  Mr. Hughes  to-day, it would be found that he is animated by the same sentiments. The conclusion which I arrived at after a perusal of these reports is that if the war continues for any long period our financial burden under conscription will be more than Australia can bear. It would not be equally as heavy under the voluntary system. Experience has shown that we have not been able to send our men to the front as expeditiously as we would like, and the indications are that we shall be able to do no better in the future, on account of the less shipping that is available every day. Quite a large number of men will enter our training camps, and they will have to be equipped, maintained, and paid, so that the financial strain will be very great. 
But under the proclamation they will be called up for service " during the continuance of the war." That is a departure from what was generally expected, and the only conclusion which can be drawn from it is that they will enter our home service camps and will remain there during the continuance of the war. To some extent that departure has lessened the conviction which I had previously held that the action of the Government in calling up these men was invalid. The Government now say in effect, " We are calling up these men, not until the referendum is taken, but ' during the continuance of the war.' " That is the plain unvarnished statement which is set out in the proclamation that has been signed by the Governor-General. When we consider what the financial responsibility and burden on Australia will be on account of this new departure, and the adoption of the Government proposals, does any honorable member think for a moment that  Mr. Hughes  may not change his attitude in regard to the rates of pay ?  Mr. Hughes  has publicly stated that he is prepared to eat his words as to the sending of men out of Australia for military service - words uttered in July of last year. The right honorable gentleman has publicly stated a dozen times since that he has eaten those words, and that he has been forced to do so by necessity and experience. Hence my fear that he is just as liable to change his opinion again; and I am fortified in that by the remembrance of his earlier speeches in another place. I believe that the Prime Minister was utterly sincere when he used those words  over a year ago, as I think he is sincere in his whole-hearted Imperialism to-day. 
Oh, yes. I am afraid that  Mr. Hughes  will be one of the first to change his own opinion, and that of the Government, in regard to the rate of pay of Australian soldiers, seeing that he has apparently changed the opinion of his Government on the question of conscription. If I am convinced on any point, I shall certainly change my opinion. If the day should come for me to disagree with the Labour party or the Labour platform, I shall do so, but I shall get out of the Labour party to do it; and that makes all the difference. "We have to consider what Australia has already done, and the financial burdens which are heaping on us, and which must be continued even if the war happily were to end before the close of the financial year, as some judges are prone to prophesy. Certain people are taking to themselves the flattering satisfaction that the wealth tax proposed by the Government is the be-all and endall of that class of taxation. I welcome the modest proposal of the Government to impose a tax of lj per cent, on the wealth of Australia, spread over three annual instalments; but I am not sanguine or optimistic enough, to believe that we shall thus be enabled to get rid of our responsibilities financial and otherwise - repatriation, pensions, and so forth - as soon as the war is over. I am strongly convinced that, instead of this little instalment of lj per cent.- 
It is a welcome little instalment, that is all. 
I think that, at the end of three years, public opinion will be so strong that whatever Government is in power - whether it be a Hughes Government, a Cook Government, or an Irvine Government - it will be compelled to do the people's will. My idea is that, instead of the public favouring any relief from such taxation, the party in power will have to give the screw a few more turns. 
I think that the Australian public will see to that; and I agree with it. Public opinion will be so strong in favour of the wealthy section oi the community doing its share, that no Government will be able to shirk its responsibilities. The other day those of  us  who had stated our intention to take the platform in opposition to conscription signed a declaration to that effect; and on une following day there appeared in the press a list of the names of those who had not signed. I think that was hardly an honest presentment of the situation, as existent in the different sections of our party. To have been honest, those responsible for the publication of the names in the newspapers ought to have done as we did - they ought to have attached their signatures to a declaration that they were prepared to go on the platform, and urge the people to adopt conscription. 

 - Senator Millen takes the view that silence gives consent, and it is a reasonable assumption, but we are forced to the belief that a comparatively large section of those whose names were mentioned will not go on the platform ' and advocate conscription, and, therefore, the press statement is misleading. In fairness to the people, these men should have made a declaration in " concrete and definite terms," to quote a phrase very often used by the Prime Minister. I have no more to say at this juncture, except to urge the Government and the Minister for Defence to see that the regulations are administered justly and equitably. Parliament will be denied the right of confirming or rejecting the regulations, owing to the fact that they have not been tabled, although they were given to the press and published throughout Australia. These regulations were denied the members of this Chamber, who would have been debarred from discussing them but for the action of those who secured the adjournment on Friday last. I trust that government by regulation, hateful and unfair as it is, will not be accentuated by government by hidden regulation - bv regulation which has not seen the light of day, and has not been indorsed or rejected by the Parliament of the Commonwealth. This circumstance  will, I believe, have a most important bearing on the result of the referendum.  Senator Lynch  is optimistic regarding 
Western Australia, but I have been informed that there is a strong opinion that that State will defeat the referendum; and, if that be so, God help the cause in the eastern States t 
There seems to be in the breasts of the people deep and serious feeling on this question - a spontaneous uprising, as it were, not in demonstration, but in interest - and never bave I addressed such earnest meetings as I have lately on the question. In Melbourne, the meetings I addressed consisted of sympathetic audiences; but at Ballarat and Brisbane it was a pleasing fact that in the hall - and at Ballarat there were more outside than in - there was a big section who listened intently with their eyes fixed on the  speaker. 
These meetings were of a class that a man likes to address, and the audience were evidently giving the matter their most earnest consideration. I have no apprehension in regard to the issue to be decided, though I admit with you,  Mr. President,  that it is a very hard matter on which to decide. When, however, we are told by such a Conservative organ as the  Argus  that there were from 55,000 to 60,000 people on the Yarra-bank at an anti-conscription meeting, we may take it that that journal has not over-estimated the figure. Such meetings are an indication to me that the people are taking a deep interest in the issue; and that is all that we who denounce conscription can reasonably ask. If the people continue to take that interest, it will make up for the handicap of the press oppression instituted by  Mr. Hughes  through the censor ; and it is one of the most hopeful signs for the defeat of the referendum on the 28th October. That interest, I think, will not only continue, but, like the snowball, will gather strength as it goes along; and, so far as one can possibly judge on so serious and so momentous an issue, I believe that the referendum is going to be defeated. 

 Senator PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for Defence) T5.441. - I hope that the Senate will reject the amendment. As to the statements of  Senator 
Mullan, I have to point out that the regulations are put forward by the Government, and that the Government must, and does, take full responsibility for them. 

 Senator MILLEN (New South Wales) [5.45J. - I do not propose to detain the Senate long, but as the question has been raised as to the right of this Chamber, in common with another place, to consider the regulations, I should not like the vote I propose to give - which will be in support of the motion submitted by the Minister - to be given without some statement and explanation of the views I hold on the matter. I can find no fault with those who have taken the course they have in ventilating what they regard as the right, and which I accept as the right, of Parliament to have the regulations placed before it. I am not going to labour the question, but I do stress the point that the Defence Act itself distinctly provides that, if Parliament is sitting, the reasons for calling out the Forces shall forthwith be communicated by the Governor-General to both Houses. It would have been better if the Minister had made that statement to Parliament. As it is, the proclamation is issued, and the responsibility for it does not rest with this House, but with the Minister. There may or may not have been good reasons for the action taken, but it was the clear intention of the Act that Parliament should have the reasons for any such proclamation submitted to it by means of a Vice-Regal message. Having said that, I would now like to say a word or two as to the regulations. I regret that we have not had an opportunity of discussing them, because they contain matters which are open to debate. Indeed, it would be curious if a set of regulations were not so open to debate; but I feel that in these regulations there are some things which will be misconstrued and distorted by opponents of compulsion, and that it would have been much better if the Government had given Parliament the time and the opportunity to discuss them, with a view to their amendment, if necessary. Let me refer to one. In spite of the limitation placed upon it, the proposal that we should have thumb-prints is distasteful; and, even now, I trust that the Minister will reconsider his decision, and see if it is not possible to secure some guarantee, which he evidently requires, without resorting to a practice which, in the minds of Australians, and, I believe, of the whole civilized world, is associated with criminality. The Minister has stated that this action has been taken with a view to avoiding fraud against the Department. I would do- anything to prevent fraud, which would rob this country of its right to claim from every citizen that service  which he should render it; but if the resources of the Department are not capable of detecting impersonation to that extent, may I ask the Minister whether it would not be better to resort to the passport system? 
But not in this country, I understand. I am supporting the Government war policy, but the matter of the proclamation and regulations having been raised to-day, I do not think I would be acting fairly to myself if I abstained from expressing my views on that subject, and I am making my appeal to the Minister because I do not think there is any argument that can be used against compulsion which will be more effective and more freely used by opponents of the Government policy than this practice of having placed on the certificate the thumb-prints of the men called Up. I understand the official explanation with regard to thumb-prints is that they are included with the object of identifying the persons exempted ; but it should be possible, even now, to devise some precaution which would be less objectionable to the public sentiment of Australia, and which would rob opponents of the Government policy of what might prove to be one of the strongest weapons in their armoury. When  Senator Mullan  was speaking,  Senator Watson  made a very pertinent interjection when he asked what good we could do by staying here, in view of the fact that we have agreed, by a decisive majority, to refer the matter at issue to the electors. I do not think it would be claimed that I am egotistical when I say that the qualifications and training of members of Parliament are such that they are better equipped for platform work than anybody else, and having debated i&lt;he matter in this House they are in a better position than anybody else in Australia to enlighten the electors whose votes will decide the question. For that reason, if for no other, the sooner we terminate our proceedings here the better it will ' be; at any rate from the point of view of obtaining an intelligent vote of the people in regard to the referendum. 
The honorable senator never made a more accurate' statement in his life. There is absolutely no argument in it if by that he means the case for the other side. 
My honorable friends on the opposite side cannot find any argument against the Government policy, and so they have fallen back upon loud assertion and noise. But I should like to know where some honorable senators stand on this subject.  Senator Ferricks,  who claims to be anxious to do all that is possible to decide this war in our favour, has on other occasions said deliberately in this chamber that first of all he would not ask and would not compel any man to go to fight. Then, this afternoon, he said that he would not pay any man to fight for us. What is he going to do ? He will not have volunteers, conscripts, or mercenary soldiers, so by what wonderful stroke of magic does the honorable senator imagine that we are going to bring this war to a successful issue ? 
I take it there is an obligation on those who are opposing the Government policy to be honest with the  people  and to prove their  bona fides.  So when they say they want to win the war they should submit some, practical and workable proposal. Now, what is the alternative according to  Senator Ferricks,  who is one of the spokesmen of the party, and whose opposition to the Government's proposal is so pronounced that recently he was deputed to speak in the New South Wales capital, and also in South Australia ? He will not have volunteers, conscripts, or mercenaries. That being th© case, we must presume that the portals of Australia would be opened wide for the entry of the German hordes. Until these gentlemen show their  bona fides  by submitting some practical alternative course to that laid down by the Government, I am inclined to agree with  Senator Barnes  that there is no argument in the matter at all. But according to our opponents there is one alternative. We have this on the authority of the New South Wales Anti-Conscriptionist Council's manifesto, and if we were not dealing with such a serious matter, I should' almost be persuaded that I was perusing a Gilbert and Sullivan opera, instead of a proposal emanating from the New South Wales body referred to, which, by the way, is composed, I take it, of representatives of the Labour Council, and of the industrial section of the Political Labour League - together with the Industrial Workers of the World - and speaks for a certain section of the unionists. 
Well, it is rather a hopeful sign that honorable gentlemen «ire anxious to disclaim any responsibility for the Industrial Workers of the World in connexion with this matter, but it is a fact, nevertheless, that that body is standing shoulder to shoulder with anticonscriptionists. We have evidence of this in the fact that at the recent meeting on the Yarra-bank - a meeting which, apparently, was organized by one central body - there were a number of platforms, and at least one of those platforms was allotted to the Industrial Workers of the World. 
 Senator Barnes  is much too practical a man to imagine that a meeting of that kind could have been arranged without organization, and it is a fact that the platforms were allotted, and that at each a motion in similar terms was dealt with. 
I am sorry to think that at such an early stage in the campaign there is a possibility of a split in the ranks of the anti-conscriptionists, as evidenced by the desire of honorable senators to repudiate association with the Industrial Workers of the World. There is a very general belief, however, that the Industrial Workers of the World constitutes an integral portion of the anti-conscription movement. 
Certainly I am in favour of direct action. But I am complaining that if some honorable senators had their way we would have no action at all to save Australia. Now, let me get back to the alternative, which has been suggested by the New South Wales AntiConscriptionist Council, and that is that the Democracy of Australia, which has emblazoned upon its banner the policy of a White Australia, should now turn round and say, " We ought to conscript the coloured people to fight for us." Surely nothing could be more disgraceful, and nothing more repugnant to an intelligent Democracy, than that subject races of the Empire, the people of India, who are denied the freedom of this country, should be called upon to fight for us! Surely, if there is a sense of humour in Australia, the absurdity of this proposal will be apparent! It has, however, bean put forward as a definite proposition by one of the official organizations leading this movement against conscription.  Senator Pearce  was quite right the other day when he said that the proposal suggested degeneracy. It would, if it were adopted and indorsed by Australia; but I refuse to believe that the people of Australia would accept as their only alternative a scheme that would be a disgrace , to the Commonwealth, and which shows how utterly bankrupt of sound argument are the opponents of the Government proposition. Then there is the further proposal that Russians should be employed to do our fighting for us. One very strong opponent of compulsion, ex-Senator Rae, recently said that we could get ten Russians for the price of one Australian. That is a novel proposition to come from a so-called Democrat, who has stood for the policy of high wages, that Australia should employ Russians because they are cheaper than Australian soldiers. Let me say that, whether we are going to employ men because they are the coloured subject people of India, or the cheap labour of Russia, the moment any nation, no matter what its form of government may be, reaches the point at which, preferring a life of ease to love of country, it refuses to do its own fighting, that nation may write " Ichabod  " over its doors, and pass out of history. There may be occasions on which nations may find safety by means of the courage and the military capacity of others; but, sooner or later, the nation that will not fight for itself must decay. History gives innumerable instances where empires, powerful at one time, have called in other nations to fight for them, and where there has been, possibly, some appearance of temporary success attending such a policy. But it has always been followed by one of two consequences: either the armies paid to do the fighting have, in turn, conquered those who paid and employed them, or the very action taken to employ them has not merely indicated a measure of decay, but - has fostered that decay, and has been followed by national disaster. Let Australians recognise that the moment it is published to the world that they are not themselves prepared to fight for their country, their ideals, their freedom, and, above all, for their homes and their women, they will not find other nations prepared to do the work for them. They may find other nations that are prepared to come and take their homes and their country from them, but they will never find a nation ready to fight for a country that is not willing to fight for itself. On this question of home defence, an attempt has been made - and it is an absolutely flimsy one - to show that there is a difference  betwen  compulsion for home defence and compulsion for foreign service. If home defence is good for Australia, it is good also for other nations. It cannot be a sound principle in Australia and absolutely unsound in Great Britain. Every man knows that if Great Britain once adopted the principle of military service for home defence only Australia would quickly go out of business. We are safe to-day, and have been safe for the last 120 years, not by reason of anything we in this country have done, but because of the knowledge that England would not stop to argue and palter over whether or not her territorial boundaries had to be passed in order to help us. 
I wish that  Senator Barnes  had lived in the time of the press-gang ! It is immaterial to my argument whether all the men in the British Navy are, or are not, volunteers. When national necessity demanded it, Great Britain showed that she was prepared to adopt compulsion, and the same thing would happen in Great Britain again if Australia were threatened in time to come. She adopted conscription- 
If Australia were threatened with an invasion a few years hence, and we, knowing that we could not defend ourselves by our own unaided efforts-  
I am reminded of the book,  T7ie Valour of Ignorance.  To urge that Australia, with its scanty population, could, unaided, defend itself from great Powers at no great distance from our shores is to preach something which  Senator Barnes  might utter, but which no one would believe. 
That statement is utterly ridiculous, but I will  examine  it. 
We have already sent 300,000 out of the country, yet  Senator Barnes  has never before discovered this bogy. What is more, he is quite prepared to send another 150,000 men- to the front as long 'as they go as volunteers. So far as his public utterances enable us to judge, he would not mind sending the last man out of Australia as long as he went as a volunteer. But, whilst we may denude the country of its men by means of voluntarism, the moment we proceed to denude it by compulsion the country, according to him, is in danger. 
I never heard the honorable senator utter a single protest against the denuding of Australia of its men until this question of compulsion was raised. 
That was after the question of compulsion had been raised. If, instead of proposing compulsion, the Government had said, ' ' We propose to make another appeal for volunteers, and lo send another 100,000 men to the front," there would have been no talk on the part of the honorable senator about denuding Australia. 
I regret to say - but it is true - that the military position of Australia is such that she could not hope at the present moment to resist a raid by a party which, in ordinary times, would be insignificant. She has to-day neither the equipment nor the men to meet any attack of the kind. 
Our safety to-day lies in defeating our enemies in Europe at the earliest possible moment, in order that we may be in a position, not only to throw our energies into the task of perfecting the defences of Australia, but to say that, as we did not shrink from the last ordeal of compulsion in order to do our share in this fight, we can look with confidence to the nations for whom we are fighting today to make the same sacrifice in coming to our aid should we be attacked. 
Nothing of the kind. Is  Senator McKissock  going to submit to this Chamber by-and-by, when the French and the British are crossing the Rhine, a resolution for transmission to the French Government saying that, in our opinion, it is wrong and inadvisable for French troops to go out of France for the purpose of entering Germany ? 
The honorable senator, apparently, holds that these men could go overland, but they could not be sent overseas. 
Germany cannot send her soldiers overseas whether they be volunteers or conscripts, for the reason that Great Britain has not kept her forces tied within the territorial limits. 
Britain's Navy is no more a volunteer Navy than her Army is a volunteer one. 
When face to face with a great necessity, Great Britain did what Australia is going to do. We shall shrink from no effort or sacrifice necessary to give effect to the brave words we have been uttering for the last two years. We shall show by our acts that we mean what we say. If we refuse to adopt the proposal of the Government, then Australia, or that section of it which secures the defeat of the referendum, will stand in' the eyes of the world not merely ashamed, but condemned as the biggest braggart the world has ever known. We have declared that we shall see the war through, and that we shall never cry a halt until victory has been secured. On the last anniversary of the war, did we not pass resolutions to the effect that we would see the thing through ? But now that we are called upon to make a more strenuous effort than was contemplated in the early days of the conflict, we hear some honorable senators say, " Let us take our hand from the plough. The furrow is but half through, but let us withdraw our hand. We have made a big enough sacrifice. Our effort has been strenuous enough. Let us be comfortable and leave the responsibility of completing this tremendous contract to the men who are fighting for us as well as for themselves." I refuse to believe that Australia will indorse that attitude. Arguments, are being put forward to-day in opposition to compulsion which I find difficult to regard as sincere or  bond fide.  They so nearly approach a wilful distortion of the truth that I can only assume that they are part of one general scheme. I did hope that, having regard to the big issues involved in the reference of this matter to the people, there would be an effort to put the plain facts to the popular judgment. But there is evidence of a systematic effort to misrepresent the truth. 
The honorable senator admits that such an attempt is being made. 
Evidence of such an attempt is to be found on every hand. If the honorable senator is moving about the country, he should know what is going on. 
I bought two pennyworth of a paper called the  Worker  the other day, and I did not see in it anything whatever of the conscriptionist side.I did see, however, page after page of anti-conscriptionist matter. 
Not a word of it. I may tell the Minister that I do not remember seeing even a complimentary reference to him in the  Worker.  The whole issue was devoted to the anticonscriptionist cause. 
The honorable senator is again right for the second time in one afternoon. He says, " This paper has to do that." It has to do it because it is being paid by an organization to publish such stuff. 
They are not paid by me, and I am certain they are not paid by the Government. 
The honorable senator is quite right. I am not putting much money into the campaign, because, first of all, I have not much money, and, secondly, because, so far, I have seen no necessity for anything of the kind. The daily newspapers, however, are giving more news of the anti-conscriptionist movement than the anti-conscriptionist journals are giving of the conscriptionist side of the campaign. 
I do not expect anything from papers such as those which are advocating the anti-conscriptionist cause. 
I did not expect anything else. I did not expect the anticonscription journals to give any publicity to conscription news, but I did at least expect that my honorable friend would refrain from complaining against the action of conscriptionist journals which do give a little publicity to the views of anti-conscriptionists. 
I saw a report in the daily papers yesterday morning of the Yarra-bank meeting. That is one proof. 
There was an anti- conscription meeting in the Sydney Domain on Sunday last. There were several thousands there - I did not stop to count them, as it was raining - but is it to be claimed that they were all anticonscriptionists ? I was one of them, having gone with several others, as thousands must have done, out of curiosity. My object in attending was to see two things : the peculiar type of individual who would be advocating anti-conscription, and the still more peculiar type that would be persuaded by him. I did not consider my afternoon wasted; I came away a much happier man than I went, concluding that if the stuff I listened to that afternoon constituted 'the case on which the " anti's " relied, there was too much intelligence, patriotism, and common sense in Australia to be moved by it. If that is the strength of their case, it only needs a little ordinary effort on the part of those supporting conscription to insure a triumphant verdict on the 28th of this month. I propose to vote with the Government on this motion. I have expressed a little disappointment at their action in regard to the regulations, and their failure to acquaint Parliament with the proclamation, as the Defence Act requires. But one has almost to do this, whether supporting a Government to which one is ordinarily attached, or, as in my case, supporting a Government from which one is ordinarily detached. We must take things by and large. 
I can safely say for every man on the Liberal side to-day that that is the last thing in his thoughts. 
Before the Government proclaimed its policy, I announced in this chamber my belief that the necessities of the times demanded the introduction of compulsion. Having expressed the belief that the Senate had a right to discuss the regulation, whilst I should be the last to suggest any curtailment of the debate- 
No; but I would ask those who take a different view from me whether, having made their protest, they think anything is to be gained by protracting the sitting? 
It would meet my difficulty if the honorable senator would table the motion now, and let us get away to the country. I deprecate any attempt to keep the Senate sitting merely to detain us here. 
There will be . plenty of time after the 28th. The honorable senator knows that we have either to accept the Government proposition, which I propose to do because of the major issue involved, or reject it. 
There is no alternative. As the honorable senator and his friends cannot hope to defeat the Government's proposition, I appeal to them to allow the sitting to conclude, and ' enable us to get to the platform. They have made their protest and stated their case, and I would urge them not to take those steps which have been resorted to on previous occasions to drag the debate out merely for the purpose of keeping it going. I hope we shall arrive at a decision without any attempt to erect that not always effective structure known as a "stone wall." 
I am glad that I was one of those responsible by my vote last Friday afternoon for calling the Senate together to-day, and I venture to say that those who were by that vote compelled to return to the Seat of Government will not have against me now that animosity which perhaps they might have felt when they received from the Government the telegram summoning them back, because, if I have done nothing else; I have, at least, given them the opportunity to hear the calm, dispassionate, and very classic speech of my colleague,  Senator Lynch  - I am sure they would not have missed that effort for a great deal - as well as the usual courteous and clever speech of the Leader of the Opposition. I would have travelled much further than from New South Wales to Melbourne for the opportunity of listening to my Western Australian colleague. If  Senator Lynch  were present, I should like to deal in detail with a few of his statements, but as lie was compelled to go to Ballarat to voice the sentiments that he so ably expresses in the Senate, carrying out the conscriptionist views that he so sincerely holds, I shall wait for the opportunity to reply to several of his statements on the public platforms of Western Australia, when he and 1 will be taking different sides. I do not concede to  Senator Lynch  the right to speak in this Senate for Westtern Australia wholly, so far as his views on conscription are concerned. I give him all credit for deep-hearted sincerity. In fact, I know of no man more sincere in his advocacy of his views; but, although I am a duly elected senator from Western Australia, the people's votes having put me here, I cannot arrogate to myself the right to speak wholly for Western Australia in the views I hold. 
I pass by that satirical interjection. I do not assume certain rights which the honorable senator, as Minister for Defence, is assuming. That kind of interjection will not lend good temper to a debate. I am giving  Senator Lynch  credit for all sincerity. I give the same credit to every man who is advocating conscription, but no man has the right to speak for Western Australia on that subject. Neither  Senator Lynch  nor  Senator Pearce  has a mandate from,, Western Australia to do so. 
I hope the honorable senator means that in a political, and not in a personal, sense. I am not speaking in a personal sense myself. The views I hold are antagonistic to the views held by my colleagues from the West. 
I am not saying whether they will or will not. I have no right to say it. I express my own opinion here and on the platforms of Western Australia, and I will not assume the right to say I am speaking for the people of Western Australia. I am speaking for myself, despite the interjection of the Minister for Defence, which I consider personal, and put aside with the contempt that it deserves. It is very hard to avoid personalities when such innuendoes are thrown out, no matter how strong and resolute a man may be in his desire to conduct the campaign in a proper spirit. When such interjections are made it is a heavy strain on human nature to refrain from hitting back. 
I am prepared to turn the other cheek as often as the next man, but I do not believe in turning it too often, or too long. It is remarkable that the members of this Parliament have to obtain important information from the columns of the public press, and not from the Government. I know there is no better channel for disseminating information to the public than the columns of the press. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.30 to S p.m. 

The information that we obtained in the newspapers on Saturday morning should have been given to this Senate by the representatives of the Government. The Defence Act lays it down very distinctly that if Parliament is not sitting when a proclamation is issued under the Act it shall be called together within ten days, for the purpose of discussing the reasons for the issuing of the proclamation. In an interjection on Friday  Senator Pearce  said that every member of Parliament knew the reasons for the issue of the proclamation, but even admitting that this was the case, the Government were not fulfilling the law. Parliament must be called together to discuss the reasons for the issue of a proclamation, even if it is perfectly well acquainted with them, and if it is sitting at the time it should have the opportunity to discuss the reasons.  Senator Millen  has told the Government, which he is heartily supporting at the present time, that if they had come down boldly to Parliament with the proclamation and allowed honorable senators to discuss the reasons for it, it would have been the better course to follow. 
Undoubtedly, and it would have been the legal course, which every Government should follow and to which every honorable senator should adhere. 
It may be legal under the War Precautions Act, but it is not legal under the Defence Act. The Government cannot expect citizens to obey the law . if they set a bad example by breaking it themselves.  Senator Pearce  also said on Friday afternoon that I had seen the Prime Minister hand a typewritten document to him. The statement is absolutely incorrect. At no time on Friday did I see the Prime Minister while the Senate was sitting, though I saw him in the Queen's Hall immediately after the Senate adjourned; but, even if I had seen the Prime Minister hand the Minister for Defence a document, it would not validate the action of the Minister in not taking the Senate into his confidence earlier on Friday. Had he made earlier the statement that he made about halfpast 4 o'clock, that the proclamation was issued, my vote would not have gone in the direction it did on that afternoon. I registered that vote as a protest against what I considered was a breach of the law. However, we are meeting to-day, and have the opportunity of discussing the regulations that have been issued. They have not been laid on the table or distributed officially, but honorable senators have been able to secure copies by a fluke. I ask the Minister for Defence whether it is intended to exempt theological students from the proclamation ? 
About 1911 an amendment was passed through both Houses of Parliament exempting from the operations of the Defence Act students pursuing their studies with the intention of joining the Church. Parliament wisely thought that, as these students were preparing for an avocation which would not be of a combatant nature, so far as military service is concerned, their studies should not be interfered with by the military requirements of the Defence Act. 
I think the Minister will find that theological students are included in the exemptions. When speaking on the second reading of the Commonwealth Military Service Referendum Bill, I suggested that the destiny of a man seeking exemption should not be entirely in the hands of a stipendiary magistrate.  Senator Buzacott  also took that view. I also pointed out the penalty that would be imposed on the working classes by the different appeal Court provisions. The rich man will have opportunities to appeal from the stipendiary magistrate to the Supreme Court, and from the Supreme Court to the High Court. The working man will have the same opportunity, but, unfortunately, his stumbling block will be the fact that he will not possess the means for submitting an appeal to a higher tribunal. At a later stage, when I asked the Government if they had reconsidered the matter, I was informed that they had reconsidered it, but intended to adhere to their proposal. It is not too late to appoint exemption Boards in each district, comprising representatives of the workers and representatives of the rich men, with independent chairmen, and make the decision of these Boards final. I ask the Minister whether it is not possible to review the matter from that stand:point ? I cannot understand how any Government in free Australia, be it Labour or anti-Labour, should introduce such a repugnant principle as is contained in the thumb-print regulation which has just been- issued. No matter how one feels on the subject of conscription or anti-conscription, the taking of finger-prints suggests criminality. The two cannot be separated. That such a taint should be put on a free-born citizen in any part of the world is extremely repugnant.  Senator Millen  has pointed out the seriousness of such a suggestion in the regulation. I am always prepared to submit to the will of the majority, and to obey the law. During the last fortnight I have been asked on several occasions, " What will I do if I am called out under the proclamation?" and my advice has always been, " Obey the law." Surely the Government and their advisers are not so destitute of ideas that they cannot find means of detecting that person who is desirous of evading the proclamation other than this finger-print business. In all friendliness and sincerity I appeal, even at this eleventh hour, for an assurance that this regulation will be revoked and cast into that limbo from which it should never have emerged . If the people were consulted in regard to it, they would with one voice cry "Anathema!" It is true that, on Friday last, I voted to bring about a meeting of the Senate today. For that action I have neither apology nor explanation, as I acted entirely within my rights, and I should act in the same way again should the occasion demand. But I realize that were I to support  Senator  Mullan's  amendment nothing would be gained. The regulations to which he referred were issued under the War Precautions Act 1914-16, in conjunction with the Defence Act 1903- 15, and, no matter what we may do, will take effect, because the War Precautions Act supersedes every other. It is true that I voted for that Act, and I take the fullest responsibility for doing so. I considered it necessary, in time of war, to give the Government wide powers to protect this portion of the Empire. I realize, however, that, like Frankenstein, I helped to create a monster, and were the thing to be done again, I should hesitate about agreeing to all the provisions of that legislation. However, I have made my protest. I have criticised certain of the regulations issued in connexion with the proclamation, and, having done so much, I can only throw myself on the hands of the Government. This Parliament is at the mercy of Ministers. I yield to no man in allegiance to the party of which I am a member, and it ill becomes any one, whether a senator or a member of the public, to say that a person differing from him in regard to conscription is false to the Labour party or to the movement. 
I thought that I had made it clear that I give all my opponents the same credit for sincerity that I ask for myself. I refuse to be told by any man that, because I am opposed to conscription, I am false to the Labour movement, in which I was born, in which I am living, and in which I shall die. Before sitting down I wish to say to the Leader of the Senate that I shall not put on the. cap which he wished some of us to wear when he spoke about laying traps for fellow senators. I supported the Referendum Bill in order to give people a chance to determine this question for themselves, and I shall support the motion for adjournment, because I realize that, if we sat until the 28th October, we could do nothing. Into the merits and demerits of conscription I shall not enter to-night, though, if life and health are spared, I shall do so fully elsewhere in Australia, and shall stand or fall by the verdict of the people. 
.- As one of those who on Friday brought about to-day's meeting of the Senate, I resent the imputation that we were guilty of trickery on that occasion. Our desire was simply to obtain the fullest information regarding matters affecting every citizen of the Commonwealth. We desired a definite statement from the Leader of the Senate as to when the proclamation would be issued, and we wished to know what regulations would be made under it. The intentions of the Government were at the time veiled in mystery, and we feltthat, in justice to ourselves and to those whom we represented, we should do all that we could to get the information that we needed. I have never been a party to anything in the nature of laying a trap for a fellow senator, and none of those who voted with the majority on Friday last would do such a thing. We have no desire to place any member of the Senate in a false position, and we would be false to our trust if we tried to do so. We have made known our views regarding conscription. I have never hesitated to express my opposition to it, and I shall take every opportunity that presents itself to prevent this yoke from being fastened on the necks of the people. In the columns of the Melbourne daily newspapers lengthy and costly advertisements have been inserted, and if similar advertisements have appeared in all the leading newspapers of the Commonwealth, the taxpayers will have to pay a considerable sum for advertising. I wish to know, therefore, who is responsible for the errors made about the dates on which men are to be called up in different parts of the Commonwealth. It was stated that in some of the military areas, or constituencies, as they are better known, men were not to be called up until towards the end of November, although we had been told  that  men were needed as early as possible in October. 
In quite a number of the districts in the Melbourne metropolitan area. It has been stated in the newspapers that these errors, if they can be so called, were viewed seriously by the Defence Department. Who then, I ask, is responsible for them ? The Government and the military authorities have had ample time to make all their arrangements, and we should know who is to blame for these mistakes. We have been told that men are being called up for home defence, and that if the electors vote for conscription they will subsequently be sent overseas. According to the proclamation, if the electors do not vote for conscription, these men will be retained during the continuance of the war. I wish to know from the Minister whether it is intended, should the referendum be defeated, to keep these men in camp until the war is ended. If I am any judge, the electors will vote against the referendum by a large majority, and I think that, in that case, those who have been called up for home defence should again become free citizens. In the interval, they will be awayfrom their usual spheres of activity, and it may be difficult for some of them to get back to the positions that they left. The regulations are interesting, if not informative. Regulation 11 says - 
Any person - 
who claims to be entitled to exemption from service under the provisions of section 61 of the Defence Act, or 
who claims to be entitled to exemp tion from service under the provisions of regulation 35, or 
who is included in a schedule referred to in regulation 46, or 
in respect of whom his employer makes an application for exemption on the ground that the employee is engaged on work of national importance, shall not be required to perform any military service pending the hearing of an application by a local exemption Court for the grant of a certificate of exemption to that person. 
I draw attention to the concluding words of that regulation. According to section 61 of the Defence Act - 
The following shall be exempt from service in time of war, so long as the employment, condition, or status on which the exemption is based continues: - 
Persons reported by the prescribed medical authorities as unfit for any naval or military service whatever; and 
members and officers of the Parliament of the Commonwealth or of a State; and 
Judges of Federal or State Courts, and police, stipendiary or special magistrates of the Commonwealth or of a State; and 
ministers of religion; and 
persons employed in the police or prison services of the Commonwealth or of a State; and 
persons employed in lighthouses; and 
persons employed as medical prac titioners or nurses in public hospitals ; and 
persons who are not substantially of European origin or descent, of which the medical authorities appointed under the regulations shall be the judges; and 
persons who satisfy the prescribed authority that their conscientious beliefs do not allow them to bear arms; and 
persons engaged in any employment specified by the regulations or by proclamation. 
Provided that, as regards the persons described in paragraphs (g), (h), and (i) of this section, the exemption shall not extend to duties of a non-combatant nature. 
Now I come to deal with other exemptions. Under regulation 35 it is provided that - 
In addition to the grounds of exemption set forth in section 61 of the Defence Act, an application may be made to a local exemption Court by or in respect of a man for a certificate of exemption on any of the following grounds : - 
On the ground that it is expedient in the national interest that the man should, instead of being employed in military service, be engaged in other work in which he is habitually engaged; or 
on the ground that it is expedient in the national interest that the man should, instead of being employed in military service, be engaged in other work in which he wishes to be engaged; or 
if the man is being educated or trained for any work, on the ground that it is expedient in the national interest that, instead of being employed in military service, he should continue to he so educated or trained; or 
on the ground that serious hardship would ensue if the man were called up for military service, owing to his exceptional domestic financial obligations ; or 
on the ground that he is the sole remaining son, or one of the remaining sons of a family of whose sons one-half at the least have enlisted prior to the second day of October, 1916; or 
on the ground that he is the sole support of aged parents, or a widowed mother, or orphan brothers and sisters under the age of sixteen years or physically incapable of earning their own living; or 
on the ground that he is the only son of a family. 
I want to point out that this gives an opportunity to almost every man called up to make an application for exemption from military service. It is provided that any person making an application to be exempted under the Defence Act, or under this regulation 35 which I have just read, is not to be called upon to perform any military duties until his application is dealt with. He makes his application in the first instance to the local exemption Court. He has an opportunity subsequently, if his application is not granted, to appeal to another Court, and finally to the High Court. It has to be borne in mind that the military authorities have the same power to appeal, where they believe an application has been improperly granted, and so I say that if these regulations are complied with, numbers of people claiming exemption will be free from the performance of military duties until probably many weeks have elapsed. I want to know who is to bear the expense of all these appeals. Are the persons concerned to bear all the expense incidental to this procedure? I suppose that, where the military authorities appeal against the granting of an exemption, the expense will be borne by the Government, and that the applicants for exemption will have.to pay their own expenses if they consider it necessary to appeal. On Friday last we were told by the Minister for Defence that, in addition to these three tribunals for considering applications for exemption, there is to be a committee, com-1 posed of three or five gentlemen, whose names none of us know, and about whose responsibilities or powers we are quite in the dark, to be appointed to strengthen the hands of the Government from time to time in deciding what shall or shall not be considered exempt industries. We should be made aware of the  personnel  of the proposed committee, and also of the duties it is to be asked to perform. In to-day's newspapers I saw a statement to the effect that men engaged in the railway services would not be called up immediately, and that it was the intention to ask for a month's exemption in respect to some of the men engaged in State services. By whom is the application to be made ? No doubt there are to be starred, or exempt, industries, but we ought to know what they are. 
We have every right to ask what the Government have in mind in respect to these exempt industries. Those responsible in this State for the running of the tramways are, apparently, much concerned about their enterprise. I saw a statement to the effect that it was not their intention to employ women, because they consider the work of running the trams is not fitted for women. In the Old Country we know that women are performing various tasks, and are employed in many spheres of activity in which, they were not engaged prior to the outbreak of war. In the Old Country they have, and had prior to the war, what we have not here, and that is a surplus population. We have been spending large sums of money in Great Britain and in other parts of the world to induce people to come to Australia because of the opportunities offered to them here. In response to appeals and advertisements by the Commonwealth and State Governments, many women came to the Commonwealth, and their services were availed of by persons having employment for them as soon as they arrived here. If there was a desire to introduce female labour for some of the industries of Australia, I do not know whether women would be available to take up the work. Many of our industries involve work which is totally unfitted for them. No one would suggest that women should be engaged on our wharfs, or in driving railway engines. I have already said that the tramway people do not intend to employ women in the running of the trams. No one would suggest, I suppose, that the women of Australia, those physically strong women who live in our so-called better-class suburbs, with small families and big bank balances, however physically strong, would roll up " bluey," ''« waltz Matilda," and go shearing. Even if they were disposed to do so, there are not a great many of these women. No one will suggest that women will be available to do the ploughing and harvesting work of the country, or that they are physically fit to go deep into the bowels of the earth and carry on the mining industry. 
I never said anything of the kind. On the contrary, I have said times out of number that if men are willing to volunteer for military service abroad, I say to them, " Good luck, and a safe return to Australia." 
I am putting my case in my own way, and  Senator Millen  can do the same. I know that there are some who are extremely anxious that absolutely the last man should be sent out of Australia by conscription. The Statistician's figures show that if the war continues for ten or twelve months more, these people will get the last man. Then they will be happy, no doubt. But those honorable senators who are so extremely anxious to see the last man go out of Australia are not so very enthusiastic about the " last bob." The " last bob " is the last word they utter, and we are far from securing the "last bob" yet. If there is one thing about which I was " profoundly disappointed," to use the words of some of our new-found friends in another place, it was the Government's taxation proposals. Our new-found friends were not profoundly disappointed by the announcement in another place of the intention of the Government to tax certain forms of wealth. Their beaming countenances, when the announcement was made, proved to me that they considered they were having a day out. They expected that wealth would have been to a greater or lesser extent conscripted. But what are these financial proposals of the Government for securing the " last bob " ? It is proposed to tax - what? To tax amusements. If there is anything for which this party has stood, in season and out of season, it is that the great mass of the people should have more leisure, and some opportunity for the improvement of their minds; that they should have some mental pleasures which were denied them up to the advent of the Labour party. But to-day the Government propose, in order to help to finance this war, to tax the little kiddies who go to the picture shows at the rate of £d. for each 3d. ticket. What did the proprietors of some of the picture shows say recently? They said that the bulk of their audiences in the suburban areas are children. We know the joy which the children derive from attending these picture shows, which are educational and humorous. No grand opera is to me so cheering or inspiring as is the music of the laughter of the kiddies at the picture shows. What pleases them pleases me. This tax is to be imposed, not upon the proprietors controlling entertainments, because they say that they will pass on the tax. To whom will they pass it on but to the mass of the working classes? It is proposed, as a further help to finance the war, to increase the income tax by 25 per cent, on the amount people are paying to-day. By whom is this increase of taxation to be paid? In the commercial world to-day they are discussing this, and they say that they are not going to squeal because of the Government's proposals. Of course, they are not. They say things will right themselves, and this taxation will be passed on. 
I do. 
I do not know in what line of business the honorable senator is engaged, but anybody who knows anything about taxation knows that there is only one form that cannot be passed on, and that is a tax on land values-. According to the statement published in the commercial columns of the newspapers, the commercial people of this country have stated that the income and wealth taxes will be passed on, and that the last measure of taxation imposed by the Commonwealth was so passed on is shown by the announcement of the Government's intention to recover £3,000,000 from people who have been making undue profits during war time. 
I am an advocate of direct taxation. I desire that those who are best able to bear the financial burdens of the Commonwealth shall shoulder them. 
I say they will pass on indirect taxation, but a tax on land values they would not be able to pass on. An impost on incomes is indirect taxation. Whilst it may be justified to a degree as a matter of expediency, in the main it is a tax on industry, effort, and enterprise; a tax on land values is not. Every form of wealth other than land is the creation of effort. But the land is there; you can neither add to, nor take away from, it. Land values are created by the community, and the increments should be returned to the community from time to time. There is not a man in the Labour movement today but came into it because of his advocacy of land-values taxation, but some of them now seem to be afraid of such taxation. We are on the wrong track altogether with our taxation; let us try to get back to the right track. When I see the Opposition joining hands with the Government to carry through these taxation measures, and eager to give a hand to the Government to fasten the yoke of conscription on the people of the Commonwealth, I ask myself where in Heaven are we drifting. In a recent editorial, the  Argus  - that "friend of the masses," that paper with one hundred eyes, above the editorial columns of which is the motto, "I am in the place where I am demanded of conscience to speak the truth, and therefore the truth I speak, impugn it whoso list" - it was stated, in the most heartless and cold-blooded manner, that the Government propose to increase the income tax by £1,000,000 a year, and that sum was to be made a free gift to the old-age and invalid pensioners, who are non-producers. In this Christian age, when the cost of living is abnormally high, this paper offers strenuous opposition to additional taxation because it will give an extra half-a-crown per week to an invalid man or woman who through total incapacitation are non-producers. 
The taxation proposals of the Government do not meet with my approbation, although they are supported by the Opposition. I know that this taxation is merely the first edition. Sometimes we read the first edition of a paper, knowing that there is to be a second, a third, a fourth, and a final edition. We may be only partially satisfied with this first edition of taxation, but there is some comfort in knowing that it is by no means the final edition. The fact stares us in the face, however, that the first edition will stay with us for a very long time, and the people of Australia will realize that to carry on the war successfully they have to p-&gt;y. 
I said the Germans were well "  stouched,"  and that the end of the war was within measurable distance. I admit that I am alone in that prediction, but I have stood alone in my views many times, and the event has proved me right in regard to many of them. I said that Germany was beaten, and that statement was accepted literally by those who wished to make capital out of it. I have attended football matches, and long before half-time some of the spectators have left the ground, and when asked why, have said, " The game is only in the second quarter, but the blacks are beaten." I have been on the Flemington race-course, and have occasionally staked a shilling or two on a quadruped which I thought to be more fleet than any other in the race, but after the first furlong a friend has said to me, " You have lost your money," and although only 1 furlong out of 16 had been run, I knew that my horse was beaten. I have the same conviction in regard to the war. Germany is well beaten, and the end of the war is within measurable distance. But there are some who think that, unless we conscript the single men in Australia - one of  Mr. Hughes'  little jokes is his statement that he does not think it will be necessary to extend conscription to married men - defeat will overwhelm us.  Mr. Hughes  says that the single men only are necessary to bring victory to the Allies, to save Australia for all time, and prevent the British Empire from crumbling. I give way to no man in my admiration of the Australian for intelligence, resourcefulness, courage, and determination. He is as good as the best, if not better than some of the best. But if any one tries to " kid " me, to use a colloquialism, that 50,000 single men are going to " wallop " our foes, and that without their assistance the earth is doomed, and damned, and civilization is blasted, I say that person is talking so much "piffle." The advocates of conscription discover now that the people of Australia realize that such statements will not bear examination. If the people really .believed them, possibly every Australian would alter his views accordingly; but the Australian people do not believe anything of the kind. I say that the enemy is beaten. 
The enemy is beaten to-day. I stand by the authorities I have quoted. The recent statement by  Mr. Lloyd  George shows that there is no possible shadow of doubt as to the ultimate success of the Allies. So the contention of the conscriptionists that, unless we compel these few thousand single men in Australia to serve abroad, the Commonwealth will be a prize of the enemy does not hold water. My affection for this land of my birth is as deep-rooted as that of any man, and it is because of that affection that I have fears, not of the enemy of to-day, but of what may be in store for us in the future. Therefore, I urge the people of Australia to hesitate before they allow every available man to be taken out of the Commonwealth. Australia ought to be a land where every citizen need fear no foe, where there should be no nightmares about invasion. If I were a dictator in this land, I would so fortify it that we should have no fears of foreign aggression. I was one of the first men in the Commonwealth to point out the possibilities of aerial defence, and I said years ago that excursions through the sky would be as frequent as motor car trips through the country were at that time. That was twelve years ago, and there were men, some belonging to my own party, who said that I was a dreamer. I have lived to see the day when, according to a published statement by an aviator, there are more flying machines in Great Britain than there are motor cars. I know that past Administrations have given no encouragement to the establishment of an aviation school in the Commonwealth. The Minister for Defence will bear me out in that. Whatever differences I may have with the present Government in regard to the question of conscription, I give them full credit for having helped on a scheme in which I whole-heartedly believe - the establishment of an aviation school and the building of aeroplanes. I am strongly in favour of constructing aeroplanes by the thousand, and also of building a 'fleet of dirigibles. This means of defence, if we were to go in for it whole-heartedly and systematically, would secure us for all time against an invasion. A fleet of flying machines and dirigibles would not resemble our Navy of to-day, which is nonproducing; they could be utilized for the conveyance of passengers and mails in different parts of Australia. Only the other day I read in an American newspaper that tenders were being called for the carriage of mails by air fleets, because it was held that by this means the mails could be delivered more expeditiously and economically than by existing methods. I dare say that in some parts of the United States of America mails are now being carried by flying machines. I am glad to see that some of the States of the Commonwealth are taking up this question enthusiastically. In Ballarat an aviation school has been established, and quite a number of men are qualifying as aviators. 
And come down safely, too. I am satisfied that, ere long, these machines will be so automatically stabilized that a person will have no more hesitation in travelling by them than he has in travelling by the Sydney express. Experience has taught us that many of our fears are based upon superstition. We have only to carry our minds back a little more than a century - to the time when it was proposed to construct the first railway in Great Britain - in order to realize this. When that railway was projected, it was proposed that trains should travel upon it at a speed of 10 miles an hour. What was the result? Members of the British Parliament rose and denounced what they declared to be an insane and preposterous idea. One member of the House of Commons said that any person who would risk his life in a train travelling at such a speed was fit only for a lunatic asylum. Another affirmed that the smoke from the engines would injure the wool on the sheep's backs. A third said that passengers who would risk their lives in travelling through the tunnels would contract consumption, catarrh, and kindred ailments, and, as a result, the hospitals would be full. Others declared that the whizz and the whirr from these terrible machines would drive "the people off their  mental balance, so that the lunatic asylums would not be large enough to hold them. So strong was the opposition to the building of a railway station near the city that ultimately it was erected 5 miles distant. All this goes to show the progress that the world has made, and is making. 
I have no fears in regard to the outcome, of the present war. I am strengthened in my opinion that absolute victory is within measurable distance by the statements of some of the best authorities who are engaged in it. It is because of my belief that I wish to see preparations made now for the future defence of Australia. Any man who can lightly view the possibilities of an invasion of this country must be blind to passing events. 
No. I have no fear that Australia will fall a prize to the enemy of to-day. But the future of this country is in our keeping, and it is our duty to look at the matter seriously, and to see that we do not denude the Commonwealth of its manhood, and thus prevent tlie possibility of our providing the money that is necessary to build up a scheme of defence which will make us absolutely secure in the event of a threatened invasion. If I were a dictator, aeroplanes in Australia would be as numerous as swarms of bees, so that if an invader attempted to set his foot upon our shores we could annihilate his battleships and decimate his forces. 
Young Australians have proved their worth in the present war. 
My honorable friend is not an enthusiastic airman, although he went up in an aeroplane once. When he was Minister for Defence he was never favorably disposed  towards the establishment of an aviation school. It is an indisputable fact that on the western front to-day our successes are largely due to our mastery of the air. That such mastery is all -important is demonstrated by the circumstance that Great Britain is already making preparations in the building of air fleets, for another war. Only in to-day's paper the statement is made that, if she possessed sufficient machines, they could travel to Germany in the day-time and annihilate Krupp's works. 
There is no doubt of it. The future defence of Australia is in the air and under the water. That was my prophecy a few years ago. I say that we should build additional submarines, together with thousands of aeroplanes, and a fleet of dirigibles ; that we should undertake the construction of strategic railways ; and that we should unify our railway gauges. 
Australians have done remarkably well during this war, and we should hesitate before we make applicable to them that which they went out to kill, namely, conscription. Let no man or woman delude himself or herself with the idea that conscription, if once it is fastened upon this continent, will disappear when the war is over. Once the electors of the Commonwealth vote " Yos " to conscription it will remain with us for all time. The referendum upon which the people will vote is as to whether they will give the Government the same power to call up men for service overseas as they already possess to call them up for home defence. In other words, if the referendum be carried, everybody between the ages of eighteen and sixty years can be conscripted. I am aware that many persons who are past military age feel earnestly upon this question, and fear that unless conscription be adopted we may lose our heritage. They may be grandfathers or grandmothers, and consequently may be inclined to vote " Yes " on the 28th October. But they ought to remember that if they do vote " Yes " their grandchildren of to-day will be the conscript soldiers of to-morrow. When once the door to conscription has been opened - and especially when it has been opened by a Labour Government - it will be kept open by all future Administrations. The Minister for Defence has said that the voluntary system has failed, and must fail, in all big wars. That is a very significant statement to make. Although Australia's contribution to the war has been a noble one, he says that the voluntary system has failed. That means, if it means anything, that the only way in which we can prevent failure in this and in all future wars is for Australia to have a conscript array. Personally, I am not in favour of that. I know that the nationalization of human life is merely a stepping-stone to the conscription of labour for industrial purposes. That has been the case in the Old Country, and it is because I see the dangers arising from the nationalization of life, and realize that it will be followed by the nationalization of labour, that I hope the people will turn it down. The advocates of conscription believe in the nationalization of human life, but the nationalization of monopolies is to them anathema. They do not believe in the referendum as an instrument, but on this occasion, when it is to be applied to the most serious and most sacred of questions, they are whole-heartedly in favour of it. Were they in favour of the referendum a little while back when it was proposed to alter the Constitution ? They then said that to have a referendum in time of war would create party strife and bitterness, and would disfranchise the soldiers at the front. It was pointed out to them that provision could be made for the soldiers to vote, but they urged that that could not be done. However, as I say, when it is a question of a referendum to conscript human life they say that the vote can be taken, and must be taken. We were also told that a referendum on that occasion would put the people of Australia into two hostile camps. Is this referendum not likely to put the people into two hostile camps? Shortly after  Mr. Hughes'  return to Australia the principal daily newspapers of the various States, and their yapping echoes throughout the Commonwealth, airily assumed that the people were eagerly and anxiously awaiting the application of conscription, and that only an infinitesimal number were opposed to that policy. These newspapers urged that conscription is a democratic principle, and on that ground the  Argus  advocated it. Of course, we all know that the  Argus  is essentially a democratic newspaper, and representative of the workers ! We also know that the  Argus  maintains that some citizens should have only one vote, while others should have more than one, because they have more ' ' stake in the country ! ' ' Conscription, further, is advocated by the new apostles of Democracy -  Mr. Joseph  Cook, 

 Sir William Irvine,  Sir John  Forrest,  Mr. Bruce  Smith, and others. We all remember  Sir William  Irvine's policy in the railway strike in Victoria. I must not forget to mention  Mr. Watt,  and a number of other anti-Labour men, who are also of the party, and who advocate the principle because it is democratic. 
I have nothing to say in regard to that gentleman; he goes his way, and I go mine. I go my way because I am earnestly, wholeheartedly, and conscientiously of opinion that it is the right way, and it is better to go the right way than the wrong and easy way where the end is woe. We who oppose conscription have no newspapers on our side, nor have we any financial institutions to support us. 
We have no powerful instruments of that kind, though. I am certain that we have the great heart and soul of the Labour movement on our side. . Efforts have been made to belittle the Trades and. Labour Councils of Australia, but I know that without those institutions the pathway of many industrial workers would not be so easy as it is to-day. I know the conditions that obtained here three decades ago. Our Labour movement first saw the light mainly because of militarism. I remember, less than thirty years ago, a meeting held on Yarra-bank, while within a building not far removed were the military, who had been specially called out. A famous historical address that will live to the end of time was delivered by a gentleman who has now gone the way of all flesh. He told the soldiers in lurid language what they had to do when the order was given, but I think that if I were to repeat that language I should be ruled out of order. 
Well, I shall  " chance it." These were the words that man was reported to have uttered : "If you see your father, your mother, your sister, or your brother, in front of you, and an order is given to fire, fire low and lay the adjectives out. Give the adjectives an ounce of lead in the guts, so that the dose will not need to be re-  peated." That was the address delivered to the troops that were assembled in the morgue at that time; and from that day of the maritime strike we have seen the growth of the great Labour movement. Men, like myself, have seen obstacles overcome that appeared at the time insurmountable. As I have said, militarism was largely responsible for the birth of our movement; and if there is any strength to-day in it - and I feel that it is just as strong and steadfast as then - there is no fear of militarism, as we understand it, in the shape of conscription. I shall have other opportunities of furthering the anti-conscription movement in this State. I believe that if a vote were taken to-day in Victoria the policy would be rejected by a very large majority. I cannot speak for other States, but when  Senator Lynch  said today that his voice was the voice of the West, I could not help thinking that his voice was north, south, east, and west. 
I wish to show that  Senator Lynch  is not in touch with the feelings of the people of . his own State. Only last Saturday night one of the biggest meetings ever held at the Boulder was one almost unanimously against conscription. 
I know that a meeting can be got up in favour of conscription - it would be a very poor cause on which there are not two opinions - and the probability is that before many days there will be a meeting at Fremantle against conscription. There is no doubt that the meeting in the Melbourne Town Hall was enthusiastically in favour of the policy. 
A number of people were privileged to go into that meeting; they had passports, and passports are very handy things to have when conscription meetings are held. We, on the other hand, have no privileges and no passports; but we had a meeting at the Exhibition building, in Melbourne, much larger than the Town Hall meeting, and there was also a large meeting on the Yarra-bank on Sunday afternoon. 
I was not there to refuse  Senator Lynch  a hearing.  Senator Pearce,  when he talks about freedom of speech, ought to go to his own State and endeavour to get for anticonscriptionists that which he claims for himself and others. I read only the other day of a man who opposed conscription at a meeting in Western Australia, and he had to run for his life. 
I did not say that; all I said was that there was a large meeting at Boulder City against it. I do not know the feeling of Perth. 
I dispute  Senator Lynch's  statement when he says that Western Australia is whole-heartedly conscriptionist. 
I know that one of the biggest meetings ever held in Boulder City was held last Saturday night, and it was unanimously against conscription. 
That was in Fremantle or Perth. It is not many weeks ago since a number of anticonscriptionists, who held a meeting on Yarra-bank, were threatened with a ducking in the river, and had to be escorted into safety by policemen. Then, again, in Sydney yesterday, we are told that while a procession of conscriptionists, with a band of music and carrying banners and bannerettes, was allowed to pass unmolested, a procession of anti-conscriptionists later in the day - a procession on its way to MacDonnell House, erected by workers - was intercepted by returned soldiers, had their banners and bannerettes broken, and suffered other maltreatment. I must say, in justice to the Minister for Defence, that when his attention was called to what had occurred on Yarra-bank, other arrangements were made, and nothing  of the kind has occurred since. We can only hope that nothing of the kind will occur again. 
On either side. 
While men with strong opinions express themselves vigorously there has, so far as I know, been nothing in the nature of personal recrimination in this chamber. We give credit for sincerity to those who advocate conscription, though we believe them to be off the right track. We regard conscription as a vicious principle, and we believe that, once it is approved, it means conscription for all time for overseas service. I believe that the people of the Commonwealth will turn it down on the 28th of October. 
I wish to make a few remarks upon this subject, and, in order to clear up some misapprehensions, to reply to certain statements made by  Senator Millen.  The honorable senator appears to confound the Industrial Workers of the World, so far as New South Wales is concerned, with the industrial section, and I have no doubt that he honestly believes the two terms to be synonymous and interchangeable. 
I have no doubt that when  Senator Millen  made that statement he believed he was speaking strictly in accordance with facts, because he is prepared at all times to express his opinion; but for the information of honorable senators who may be misled by  Senator Millen's  remarks, I desire to state that the two bodies are distinct from each other, and, generally speaking, are violently antagonistic. The body known as the industrial section of New South Wales is comprised of delegates elected by the various trade societies, chiefly in the metropolis, but some of them outside the metropolitan area, and they meet as a distinct body and quite apart from any other organization, to decide on the legislation which, in their opinion, should be passed to meet their requirements. The Industrial Workers of the World, as they are known, do not meet with that section at all. I suppose at the present time the industrial section comprises quite 150 delegates, elected by the various unions throughout the city. It will be seen, therefore, that  Senator Millen's  statement has no foundation in fact. The honorable senator very pertinently asked : What alternative scheme is submitted by those who oppose conscription ? Well, I want the Senate to consider the scheme put forward by the Government. 
The Government, we are told, want 32,500 men this month and 16,500 men for every succeeding month. In three months' time that scheme will empty Australia of every eligible single man; I challenge contradiction of that statement. Apparently, the Government want us to believe that this enormous draft of men is required in three months to supply the gaps caused by the casualties. But what are the figures? For a time we had 20,000 men at the front. Later on we offered 30,000 more, and still later on another 50,000, or a total of 100,000 men, and in the course of two years they have suffered casualties amounting, in round figures, to 60,000 men killed, wounded, or missing.  The Prime Minister and the Government would like the people of Australia to believe that we must have the number asked for in the ranks inside of three months; but that is a demand which cannot for a moment be entertained on the figures. We have enlisted, under the voluntary system, all the men who are at the front, and I say without fear of contradiction - I challenge the Minister for Defence to disprove the statement - that the Australians are prepared to continue to supply at least 6,000 men every month under the voluntary system. That number is more than sufficient for requirements. 
I believe the enlistments from, the 1st J  January  to the present time have considerably exceeded 6,000 men per month, and that number, I repeat, is more than sufficient to provide for the casualties suffered during the two years up to date. No question ever submitted to the people of this country will cause such a division of opinion as this referendum. Men who are themselves too old to go to the front, and women also, should hesitate before they vote to send any young man to the firing line, and possibly to his death. I am confident that if we had a system under which every man from twenty-one to sixty years of age was summoned to the colours, and if we picked the men by ballot, irrespective of age, a considerable number of those who are now enthusiastic conscriptionists would probably modify their attitude on this question. 
I have no objection to organization at all, but I say that, up to the present, Australia has done very well, and would still do well under the voluntary system. Why should Australia be called upon to send away all her young eligible men when Canada, or South Africa are not doing the same? Indeed, I doubt very much if Great Britain herself is doing so much. There is no justification for Australia to be forced to adopt this course so long as we can find 6,000 men per month to meet requirements. It is interesting to observe all the exemptions provided for under the proclamation. In addition to the exemptions mentioned in the Defence Act, young men engaged on works of national importance, or training for such work, are not to be asked to go into the firing line; and that exemptions will, also be authorized in cases of exceptional domestic or financial obligation, as also in cases where single men are the sole support of widowed mothers, aged parents, or of orphans, while remaining sons where half the family have already gone to the front will not be expected to enlist. In the face of all these exemptions, I want to know who will go. Does it not appear that, after all, it will be the unskilled labourers engaged on railways and works of that kind? These undertakings are not regarded as national works by many enthusiastic conscription advocates, who, if they had their way, would close them down, thus bringing about the dismissal of the men. This has been done many times in the history of Great Britain during war time, in order to compel such men to enlist because they were hungry. It has been questioned whether the workers of Australia are against conscription. There is not the slightest doubt about their attitude. They are in deadly opposition to  conscrip-  tion, and not because large numbers have not gone, because the records show that a very substantial number of them have enlisted. On every occasion where the organized workers have had an opportunity of dealing with this question, they have expressed their determined opposition to it. Bodies like the Sydney Labour Council, after having been addressed by the Prime Minister, resolved, by 116 to 60 votes, not to have anything to do with it. Other bodies, like the New South Wales Coal and Shale Employees Union, the Railway Workers Union, the Amalgamated Railways and Tramways Union, and the Australian Workers Union, have all declared their undying hostility to conscription. This is typical of the attitude of unionism in New South Wales, and also of the organized workers of Queensland, Victoria, and elsewhere throughout the Commonwealth. I do not object very much to the action taken by those honorable senators who were responsible for our being brought back to-day to review the position. I should not mind even if we were called upon to sit here continuously for a few days and nights to discuss this question, for I know of no subject of more importance that has been submitted to the Senate. When I received a message requesting me to return here to-day, I had already completed arrangements to address, under the direction of our executive, at least a dozen meetings in various parts of New South Wales. Whilst I am opposed to conscription, I believe that the question is one on which the electors should have an opportunity to express their opinions. I am glad that the responsibility of recording a direct vote upon the question of conscription has not been thrown upon me. The Prime Minister proposed to the party that the question should be submitted to the electors, and our party by a majority agreed to the adoption of that course. 
I am not objecting to the action of the Government in submitting the question to the people, but I avail myself of this opportunity to state that I, personally, am opposed to conscription, and that when the question goes before the people for their decision I shall do what I cau to urge them to vote against it. 
Let Great Britain and her Allies do whatever more remains to be done." In the same breath, these men demand that when we come to the consideration of peace terms Australia shall be consulted. If Australia desires to be consulted, she must be prepared to do her share of the work yet to be done at the front. 
Surely the people are not to be led to believe that they may safely follow their ordinary trades and occupations under the most comfortable conditions of life in Australia unless they are prepared to take still another step to make secure our rights and privileges. Those who declare their opposition to conscription should realize that the time has come when we must resort to that system in order to put an end to the system, of Prussianism which they so abhor. The Government ask only for the same powers to send troops oversea as they have now to call up the citizens in tho case of invasion, and only during the course of the war. How can any honorable man ask people to believe that once the Government are given the power for an emergency like the present, they will have it for all time, and injure Australia in every direction? The people in Great Britain, who dislike conscription and war quite as much as any man here does, had the situation brought home to them by sending some of their representatives te the trenches to see what war was like, and by reports of atrocities committed. Their objections then disappeared, and Great Britain to-day, with the enormous number of men who have consented to conscription, stands pre-eminent as a nation that has risen to the occasion, not from any desire to fight for mere fighting sake, but to bring to a successful issue the mission on which it set out. That mission means freedom to other countries, the maintenance of England's own freedom, and possibly even the granting of freedom to residents of various parts of Germany who are now under the iron heel of Prussian militarism. The justice of ' the case seems so abundant that I quite fail to understand the position taken up by those who take the opposite view. I believe all the anticonscriptionists are anxious that Great Britain should win the war; but if they can suggest no other means than those put forward by the Government, what are they to do? Our desire for peace or objection to conscription will not help us one jot or tittle in dealing with the enemy we are called upon to face. Democracy, with its rights and privileges, carries with it obligations and responsibilities. If we want to be free, we must strike for freedom when freedom is threatened, and strike with the 
Weapon that will he most effective. The question of calling up all the manhood of a nation is not novel. It dates back thousands of years, when men were called upon to fight to maintain the integrity of their nation. It is so to-day, and will be so for all time. I fear the day is far distant when battles will be determined by mere speeches, no matter how eloquent. If honorable senators who are opposed to conscription, and those in favour of it, will confine themselves strictly within such lines that there can be no doubt about the correctness of their statements, this issue can he fairly fought. I have never been a supporter of the present Administration as an Administration; but when  Mr. Hughes  went to England he had an opportunity to make himself thoroughly acquainted with the needs and necessities of the hour. I am certain that when he went away he never thought Australia would be faced with the question with which it has to deal to-day; but he is a man of considerable ability and astuteness, and is not likely to have been led into a mistake on this very grave question, of which he has made so particular a study. If honorable senators opposite have any confidence in him, they must believe that he had good reasons for taking up his present attitude. 
You did not say that about him when he was fighting for the alterations of the Constitution. 
When we remember that for more than a century we have been building up our nation with never a hostile foot landed on our shores, and without once being called on to fight an aggressor, we must admit that we owe a great deal to the British nation, and we ought to be prepared to do our share in return. 
But the important point was that the meeting was a great succ6ss. 
The Yarra-bank is open to -the conscriptionists. Let them try how they get on there. 
As Parliament has already decided that the question of conscription or anti-conscription shall be settled by the people, I am going to discuss that matter from the platforms outside, where I can put the case before the public in a fair and straightforward way. This Parliament was returned, as  Senator Gould  said, after the war began. 
I remember  Mr. Fisher's  phrase, and, after all, it is only a phrase, like "equality of sacrifice," a thing which is absolutely impossible. If any man had advocated conscription for service abroad at the last election, he would not have seen the inside of Parliament House. I believe I know what was the feeling of the people at that time. As I have always been opposed to conscription, I feel perfectly justified in laying my views on the subject before the electors, just as much as  Senator Gould  is. I have no objection to his putting his views before the public. All that those who are opposed to conscription are asking for is a fair deal and the right to be heard, and that the newspapers shall be allowed to publish our speeches,  if necessary. Apparently, no news is being published now of what is actually taking place. I have heard to-night, for the first time, of large meetings being held in various parts of Australia against conscription. These are not reported in the newspapers, and what we heard to-night were apparently private telegrams. 
Then it is most peculiar that these items of news which are usually sent from one newspaper to the other leading newspapers of the Commonwealth are not appearing at the present time. 
They are faithfully reported. I do not know whether there is a conspiracy among the newspapers to suppress everything that they do not wish to have published; but it is apparent that those who are opposed to conscription are not going to get a fair deal in regard to having their views spread abroad. The honorable senator glared at me to-night when I interjected. He has taken up the  role  of Mother Shipton. He was prophesying as to all things that were going to happen during the next hundred years, and then he told us that they were going to happen in a military sense. He said that he had been to the races, and when the horse he had backed had run a short distance, he was told, " You have done your money in," and he was perfectly satisfied. If his prophecies are not better than his tips, I do not think that we need be very much afraid that they will come true. Certainly there will be advancements in all classes of machinery. Everybody looks forward to it. No one is surprised when science enables the people to get from one point to another more quickly. We are all looking forward to the time when distance will be further- annihilated, and the world from that point of view made smaller. I am sorry that  Senator Lynch  had to leave the chamber. One does not care about saying anything in reference to the remarks of an honorable senator who is absent, but what  Senator Lynch  has said can be read in  Hansard,  and if a previous engagement, or any other cause, induced him to go away from Melbourne, that is no reason why any one who remains here should not reply to what he has said. The speech of the honorable senator wasa very amusing episode. The honorable senator claimed that I was laughing. I was not the only one laughing. Most honorable senators were enjoying themselves. I have been to some entertainments in Melbourne, and laughed, but I have never laughed so heartily as I did at the antics of  Senator Lynch  when he was telling us all the little tales he was unfolding in regard to senators, and those opposed to the doctrine he supports. It is a good thing when one meets a person who can amuse an audience. I remember a reception that the people of Kalgoorlie gave, some years ago, to visitors from the eastern States. It was a large meeting, and the Mayor of Kalgoorlie, in introducing  Sir George  Reid, who was the man of the hour, finished up his eulogistic remarks by saying that he felt that  Sir George  Reid would say something that would amuse the people. I have heard some very crisp and caustic remarks made in regard to persons, but I have never heard a man get the dressing down that  Sir George  Reid administered to the Mayor of Kalgoorlie on that occasion. He described him in every conceivable way, and wound up by saying that he was the funniest thing he had seen for quite a long time. Then he pointed out that any one who possessed the faculty of being able to amuse others should certainly use it at every opportunity. If he was able to amuse a crowd, he thought that it was the best thing he could do, because people enjoyed life more than anything else.  Senator Lynch  stood in that  role  to-day; not that he was not in deadly earnest - I believe he was - but some of the statements he made were quite over the odds. He first said that he had no intention of indulging in personalities j he would not dream of doing so; he. simply wished to deal with ' the question as he understood it, but he finished by dragging in  Senator Ferricks, Mr. Anstey,  and  Senator Findley,  and telling us what abominable hypocrites they were. In fact, any one opposed to the ideas he holds is regarded by him as an abominable hypocrite. When I rise, without intending to indulge in personalities, I omit them, and I do not get worked up to a tearing passion and abuse every one within the sound of my voice who does not agree with me.  Senator Lynch  did not carry out the intention with which he started. He proceeded to tell us that he had made an ' arrangement to go through Australia. What was the agreement, and with whom was it made? If it was an arrangement with any honorable senator I know nothing of it. If it was an arrangement made with the Government it was not an arrangement with members of this House, and I therefore take exception to the public being led to believe that  Senator Lynch,  or any other person, had an arrangement with members of this Senate which honorable senators, by a breach of their agreement, had caused him to break. There was no such agreement with honorable senators, and we, therefore, committed no breach of agreement, as the honorable senator would lead the public to believe. He seems to have the idea that there is no one in the Labour movement to-day except those who are able to see eye to eye with him. " I have been twenty-seven years in this movement," he said. Many members of this Parliament have been in the Labour movement longer, but that does not enable them to do more effective work than men who have recentlyjoined it. A man who has joined the 
Labour movement quite recently and is able to do good work for it is just as welcome in its ranks as those who have been in it longer. Even if a man is getting o.'d he is entitled to no kudos for having been straight for so long. The honorable senator cannot claim that because he has been in the movement for so many years - I have been in it longer than  Senator Lynch  - he should be able to carry more weight than those who are new-comers to it and honestly support its principles. I do not wish to say what the chance of the conscriptionists will be in Western Australia. I do not know what they will be. I cannot say what chance they will have in Victoria. I do not know what their chance will be in Queensland, though I take it as very significant that the newspaper that has been boosting conscription for the last few months is informing the people of that State that if conscription is not to be carried there the rest of Australia will carry it. That statement seems to be a good indication that Queensland will vote against conscription. I might, I believe, prophesy a considerable majority against it, because at the time of the last election the Labour party was totally opposed to conscription being imposed for service abroad. But I am not foolish enough to say that Western Australia may not carry the proposal.  Senator Lynch's  remark that he comes from the " premier State of Australia " seems to me to be nonsense. The honorable senator says that it is the only State where they "do things." They " do things " in some of the other States. I do not know that Western Australia even has a Labour Government. I believe that it is the only State outside Victoria that does not possess preference to unionists. That principle has been wiped out, and the workers in Western Australia have to abide by that decision whether they like it or not.  Senator Lynch  says that " they are trying experiments in Western Australia." They are doing the same in almost every State of the Commonwealth. Queensland has tried various experiments. Many of them have been successful. In the matter of public money put into works on behalf of the people of the State, Queensland is equal, if not considerably superior, to the State which the honorable senator calls the " premier State of the Commonwealth." This gibing by one State of another adds no dignity to our debates, and is not likely to create a good feeling among members of the Senate or people engaged in the Labour movement. Ve are told by  Senator Lynch  that men have been gagged and expelled from the Labour movement. It is true that at one time or another quite a large number of men have been expelled from it. In Queensland we have had to deal with a number of men in that way, because it was believed that they had acted contrary to the avowed principles of the movement. Two leaders of the party had to be passed out because they thought they were able to get on better with those people to whom we were always opposed. Coalitions and many such things took place. This is not the first case of expulsion from the Labour movement. The honorable senator says that" there is no freedom in connexion with it. On the contrary, there has been more freedom in connexion with it than in any connexion with any other brand of politics we have so far had in Australia. On a question like this I do not propose to go on the platform and defame people. I realize that the matter of compulsory military service was not definitely on the Labour platform at the time that the Senate was elected ; every one knows that. But if there had been any doubt in the minds of those who drew up the platform it would have been there, even if it had to be printed in big letters, and I do not think that there is one member of the party who would not have put his name to it had it been there at the time that he was returned to this Parliament. I further believe that not one of these men, had he subscribed such a plank, would have gone back on it. I am opposed to the policy of the Government, and as soon as I get the opportunity I shall tell the people so from the public platform. 
I have twice had to cancel mv arrangements. Last Thursday, and again on Saturday, I booked a berth, believing that I could get away, but I am still here. Yet  Senator Lynch  asks us why we do. not put up a fight. He made reference to a rheumatic Queensland mosquito. I have travelled a good deal through Queensland, and have been in the Gulf country, but have never met with that kind of mosquito. Possibly the Institute of Tropical Diseases at 
Townsville may know something of such an insect, but  Senator Lynch  may have been referring to what is known as the Scots Grey. Years ago I helped to put up many a good fight in the Queensland Parliament, and could do my share now as well as any other honorable senator if it were necessary. I do not think it is necessary. It seems to me that when the numbers were against us, all we could do in regard to the Referendum Bill was to enter our protest against it, stating our reasons, and voting against it on every opportunity. Having done our best, we must be content to go before the people, and, stating our views, ask them to indorse our action.  Senator Lynch  stated that extravagant language had done a great deal to help the Labour movement. He instanced statements made by  Mr. Walpole  and others derogatory of those connected with the movement. But he, in his turn, made extravagant charges against those who cannot at present see eye to eye with him. I do not abuse him because I am opposed to him on this question. I , give him credit for sincerity in an attitude which he says he took up long ago. I never dreamt that any of us would live to see the day when this Parliament would be asked to vote for conscription. The honorable senator says that there should be but one party in Australia now. But less than two years ago the Labour party turned down that proposal, and it was one of the best things that it ever did. The honorable senator asked us to look at Great Britain, There they have a Coalition Government. But was not one of the causes of the success of  Mr. Hughes  in Great Britain, the fact that there was a Coalition Government in power which the press had been vainly trying to induce to do certain things it believed to be necessary ? When it was found that  Mr. Hughes  was on their side, the influence of powerful organs like the  Times  and others was put behind him, and enabled him to make a name such as no other public man coming from the Dominions had ever before made. Can it be said that the British Coalition Government, a coalition of opposing and conflicting interests, whose representatives are by no means happy together, is one party? By using  Mr. Hughes,  the newspapers were able to compel the British Government to do things which for months they had been unable to make them do. Who doubts that, later, the present coalition will fall asunder, and there will be harder fighting between political parties than ever before?  Senator Lynch  told us that there is only one ,party in Prance to-day. That is so. France has had conscription for many a year, and practically every one of its citizens has been sent to the front. We hear of its members of Parliament taking part in the fighting, being called together only when it becomes necessary to vote supplies for the war, the administration of public affairs being intrusted wholly to the Government. Are the people of Australia prepared to leave everything to this Government without parliamentary check ? I do not think so, and many members of this Parliament would not be satisfied with such an arrangement for five minutes. We have seen too much of the administration of this Government, even though St is the administration of a Labour Government. A good deal of soreness has been caused by it. I ask  Senator Guthrie  whether the men who were conscripted by the Navy Office, and made to work under conditions differing from those which prevail in the coastal trade, were not sore? We shall be told that nothing of the kind will happen again. Let us hope that it will not happen again. But I am disinclined to put unlimited power into the hands of any body of men, because abuse, is likely to follow sooner or later.  Senator Lynch  asked us to look at Italy. That country is much in the position of France; everything being left to the Administration, and Parliament being called together only to vote supplies. He asked us to look at Belgium. There, the affairs of the country are administered almost wholly by the soldiers who have overrun it. We look forward to the time when they will be driven out, and it will be possible to re-establish a Belgian Parliament for the conduct of affairs.  Senator Lynch  referred us to Washington; but in his time the United States of America were practically under the colonial government of Great Britain, and there was no opportunity, under the conditions then existing, for a number of political parties. Were there many different parties in Australia when we had the same system of colonial government? That was the system practically in operation in the United States of America in 
Washington's time. The legislators -were mostly nominees. There were practically none elected, and how could there be political parties under such conditions ? Then the honorable senator referred us to Lincoln. I ask whether there were not political parties in Lincoln's time? Any one who has read the history of the United States of America at that time knows that there were not one or two, but at least half-a-dozen, different parties, each battling to get ite own way. It was only because of the tremendous power which the American Constitution vested in the  President  of the United States of America that Lincoln was able to withstand the assaults made upon him by the various parties and cliques in his time. Of what use is it for  Senator Lynch  to tell people who, like himself, have read the history of the United States of America that the condition of affairs in that country at that time was as he has stated it? There were parties in the United States of America at that time led by men whom Lincoln had himself placed in responsible positions only a little time before. They went back upon him and exerted all the influence they could to put him out of his position. It was only his enormous power as  President  that enabled him to brush aside all the opposition coming from those parties and cliques.  Senator Lynch  had something to say about the Socialists. The Socialist, according to the honorable senator, is only a comrade now, but he was not such a bad sort of chap some time ago.  Senator Lynch  asked us to consider the position of Leibknecht and his comrades in Prance and Germany; but it is somewhat significant that French Socialists have passed resolutions not to' have anything whatever to do with the Socialists of Germany for quite a number of years. Socialistic societies in Great Britain have passed similar resolutions. I think they have decided not to have anything to do with the Socialists of Germany for the next ten years. In view of these facts, it is difficult to understand the passion which  Senator Lynch  displayed against the Socialists of Australia, because they happen to be opposed to the system which the honorable senator is advocating. I have no objection to his advocacy of conscription. If it squares with his conscience, the honorable senator has a perfect right, as has every other member of the Labour party, to support or oppose conscription, or any other matter that is not on the Labour platform. 
Most decidedly it does. 
I had no say in the matters to which  Senator Millen  refers. The labour organizations in the various States have taken that action. I do not know whether they did so wrongly or not. If they have the power, and they believe they are representing the big majority of their members, it seems to me ' that they have only repeated what was done in the movement on many occasion's before, when they expelled people who had been advocating principles opposed to the principles of the Labour party. I am not going to vilify any man because he opposes the principles I hold. What I ask is that the misrepresentation at present in evidence shall not be made worse than it is. Speaking of myself,  Senator Lynch  said to-day, " I will tell the people something about you." The honorable senator is quite welcome to do so. The whole of my life in connexion with the Labour movement is an open book, which can be read by anybody. The honorable senator can go to the State from which I come and tell the people there anything he pleases concerning me, because they know that I have never acted contrary to the Labour principles I have always advocated, and I did not come into the Labour movement only yesterday, but, as I have already said, some little time before  Senator Lynch  came into it in Australia. There seems to be an impression that honorable senators who on Friday voted to bring about the meeting of the Senate to-day entered into some sort of conspiracy. It is suggested that there was some whip-up, and that they took advantage of their mates who had gone away in good faith. I was glad to hear  Senator Millen  say that he had no fault to find with the honorable senators who compelled him and his colleagues to come here from Sydney to-day, and that he thought they were justified in the circumstances. I wish to state exactly what happened, so far as I was personally concerned. The Government Whip came to me before the Senate met after lunch on Friday, and told me that, in all probability, the Senate would be sitting a little late, and that as some of our men wished to get away, he desired to know whether I would be here in order to assist to keep a quorum. I told the "Whip that I would be here. I mentioned that I had something to do down the street, and as others would be here to keep a quorum until twenty minutes to 5 o'clock, I would then go away, and be back in time to take the place of those who desired to get away. 
I was. I always try to be as good as my word, and it is an accident if I am not. "When I came back I did not hear from  Senator Mullan  or any other member of the Senate that it was likely that the Senate would be meeting this week. I had booked my berth for Saturday. I entered the chamber only ten minutes or a quarter-of-an: hour before the vote was taken on  Senator Mullen's  amendment. After entering the chamber and hearing the debate, I asked what was the matter, and I was told that  Senator Mullan  thought that there should be some promise from the Government that when the proclamation was issued Parliament would be called together, in the sense ordinarily understood by laymen, to deal with it. There was no such promise given. I heard the Minister for Defence say, ""We are going to act in accordance with the best legal advice given to us." I shall not say whether that was right or wrong, as I am not able to criticise it. During the debate no one dreamt for a moment that the proclamation was already in existence until the Minister for Defence said, " The proclamation has already been issued." Inquiry was at once made by honorable senators as to why the proclamation had not been laid upon the table of the Senate, so that we might know what was happening. In my mind was a suspicion that the Government were waiting until Parliament had adjourned to announce the issue of the proclamation. It may be technically right to say that Parliament is sitting at any time between the opening by the Governor-General and the prorogation, but the majority of the people would interpret section 46 to mean that Parliament should be actually sitting. 
The idea has always been in the minds of honorable senators that a proclamation of this description would necessitate Parliament being given an opportunity of expressing its opinion in regard to both the proclamation itself and the regulations to be issued in connexion with it. Realizing that the other House had adjourned, many of us were resolved that the Senate should have that opportunity of discussion. I have not read through the regulations. I did not know that they were available. Nowadays the Government seem to go direct to the newspapers with any information of importance, and we may be sure that they obtained copies of the regulations at once. But Parliament is the place where these regulations ought to have been produced at the earliest possible moment. From the dates on the proclamation and the regulations, we realize that the Government desired that Parliament should not have an opportunity to debate them. Even  Senator Millen  does not altogether agree with regulation 80 in regard to thumbprints. I am surprised that the Government did not proceed further in that direction. The police have a system of taking, in addition to thumb-prints, two photographs  - one full face, and the other in profile - so as to be able to identify criminals. Could not the Government have done something like that? I do not believe that the' adoption of the thumbprint system in connexion with men called up for defence work will meet with the approval of the people, although it may be a very excellent thing for the tracing of criminals passing from one country to another. In any circumstances, I should have been opposed to the proclamation calling up men for home service. The people have not yet had an opportunity of expressing their opinion, but our young men have been called up for home service for the term of the war. We know what that means. Those who are in favour of the policy of the Government believe that the people, by an overwhelming majority, will decide that these men shall be sent oversea. Therefore, it was decided to call them up at once, so that, before the referendum is taken, they may be given a few weeks' training. That very action will militate against an affirmative vote being recorded, because the people affected will be far more active agents against conscription than they otherwise would have been. It has been said that there would not have been enough men coming forward if the voluntary system had been relied on, but I believe that had there been as much energy put into the voluntary system as is now being shown in connexion with conscription, we should have been able to maintain our position without resort to compulsion. I shall vote for the amendment, because I voted previously in favour of the Senate meeting again this week, and if there is anything I can do, by vote or voice in this chamber, to kill the conscription proposal, I shall be only too happy to do it. 
I did not expect a lengthy sitting today, but  Senator Lynch  was full of vigour, and kicked off the ball of debate. The consequence is that the Senate is still sitting.  Senator Lynch  says that he is entitled to speak for Western Australia, and to commit that State to conscription, because he has been guided by the consensus of opinion in the party that has placed him in this Senate. I remind  Senator Lynch  that he did not wait for the decision of the Western Australian Labour movement before putting forward his opinion in regard to conscription. He did that long before the Western Australian Conference gave its decision.  Senator Lynch  feels aggrieved on finding that there are some honorable senators who stand here to speak for the Labour movement as they understand it in the States to which they belong. Surely, if he is entitled to speak for the Labour movement in his State, every other representative in this Chamber possesses a similar right. With the exception of Western Australia, the work: ing classes of every State in the Commonwealth emphatically say that they do not want conscription. This afternoon, the honorable senator gibed at some of us because we did not see eye to eye with him on this question, and spoke as if we had only joined the Labour movement yesterday. He affirmed that he had been identified with it for twenty-seven years. I know that he has been associated with it for a long time, and that he has done very fine work in connexion with it. But I may tell him that, although he is an older man than I am, my record is a couple of years longer than his own, and consequently I am in a position to speak for the movement with just as much authority as he is. It has been said that those honorable senators who are opposed to conscription took an unfair advantage of the* Government supporters on Friday last. In what we did, we acted conscientiously, believing it was necessary that the Senate should be called together to discuss certain actions of the Ministry. I was under the impression, and so were many others, that before Parliament rose for the referendum campaign the proclamation and the regulation calling upon the citizens of this country to submit their thumbs for examination would have been laid upon the table of both Houses. We were entitled to expect  that. When the proclamation was not presented to Parliament, some honorable senators became very suspicious of what the Government might do. They therefore resolved to watch them, and hence the vote of Friday last. It has been said that, in the forthcoming campaign, both sides will receive a square deal. But what is the position ? In the newspaper? of this morning a whole page is devoted to recording the doings of conscriptionists all over Australia, while only about ten lines are occupied with the doings of anticonscriptionists. Since the War Precautions Act became law, it has been used for quite a number of purposes for which I do not think the Government were justified in using it. I propose to tell them one way in which it may be used justifiably. They affirm that they are anxious that the people of this country shall not be misled upon this question. I give the advocates of conscription credit for the utmost sincerity, and I expect them to be equally generous in regard to myself. The Minister for Defence has stated that the Government do not conduct the newspapers. I am well aware of that. But they have recently done quite a lot of things in the direction of suppressing information which would otherwise have appeared in the newspapers. I hold that they should use their powers under the War Precautions Act to see that, in the forthcoming campaign, both sides are accorded a square deal by the newspapers. If these journals devote a page to recording the utterances of the advocates of conscription, they should devote an equal amount of space to recording the speeches* of those who are opposed to it. I am quite satisfied that if the newspapers did not give prominence to  Mr. Hughes'  side of the question, they would very soon hear from him. It has been affirmed that the opponents of conscription wish to desert our men in the trenches, that we want to see them die with their rifles in their hands simply because we do not favour sending more men to the front. But I would remind honorable senators that only the other day the Minister for  Defence stated that all the sacrifice which Australia was required to make at this juncture was represented by the despatch of an additional 60,000 men. He declared - as will be seen by reference to  Hansard,  page 8415 - 
Wo have already 72,000 with which to meet that demand, and we should be able to realize from the 150,000 single men available the remaining 60,000 men, fit and without dependants, ready to stand by their comrades in the field, and to give them the relief they have every right to expect. That is the worst sacrifice Australia is called upon to make under the Government's proposal. 
The worst sacrifice the people are called upon to make under the proposal of the Government they know nothing whatever about, because the Government have not been frank with them. The Minister stated that the limit of our sacrifice was represented by 60,000 additional men. Yet, a little later, we were told that 32,500 men were required for last month, and 16,500 for each succeeding month. It will thus be seen that by the end of the present year over 80,000 men will have been called up. The people should be told these things. That is why the Government should use their powers under the War Precautions Act to see that the newspapers devote to the doings of anti-conscriptionists the same amount of space that they grant to the advocates of conscription. At present, they refuse to report our utterances, and, unfortunately,  Hansard  does not find its way into the hands of many people. The other day, when speaking in this chamber, I gave some figures as to the probable cost of the war to Australia. Further information from official channels has shown me that I was quite wrong in my estimate of our financial responsibilities. That, however, was not my fault. I endeavoured to obtain the desired information from official sources, but failed to do so, and, as a result, I had to be guided by the best information that was then available. Since then, however, the Treasurer has made an interim financial statement, in which he estimates that, by the end of next June, the national debt of the country will have reached £175,000,000. 
It includes the war loans; that is the whole national debt. The war' debt is £141,000,000, and the people have to consider that the war, in all probability, will not be over by next June, though I believe  Senator Findley  when he says that Germany is now beaten. My own opinion is that from now on Germany will only be sparring for terms of peace. That nation knows that there is now no possibility of conquering the earth as it set out to do; but it will hang on as long as it can - for as long as it takes our people to drive its forces over the frontiers.  Senator Pearce,  as I have said, told us that all the additional sacrifice that Australia had to make was  60,000  men, and yet, in view of the fact that the war cannot possibly end before June next year, we shall, for at least five months, have to continue to send monthly 16,500. The people of Australia cannot possibly vote on this question with a clear vision unless they know these facts. If, next June, we are faced with a total Commonwealth debt of £175,000,000, and we have 400,000 at the front, it will take at least two years to get these men back again, at an expenditure of at least another £70,000,000. We who oppose conscription are being charged with deserting the men at the front, but are really those who are standing to the promise that we made to them. We promised these men that, if they went to fight for the liberties we enjoy here, their dependants would be looked after, and that they themselves, if crippled, would be provided for; and I believe that the financial responsibility, as shown by the figures, is the limit to which this country can go in honouring that promise. It is time, as I have said before, that this country had the courage to cry a halt. Australia is a long way ahead of any other country on earth. Some honorable senators who come from other countries say that t'hey have the greatest affection for Australia, more affection than for any other country except the land of their birth. Well, Australia is the land of my birth, and I have no respect for the country that starved my father and mother out of it. There is no sentiment in me about that country, but I have a sentiment about the chaps at the front. It is suggested that Australia has to fight on the whole western front, and that if we do not send some more thousands of men we shall lose the war, and that the loss will be put down to the fact that we have deserted the men who up to now have gone to the "front. This is said, despite the fact that on every frontier there are millions of men who are not now being used. That fact is disclosed by this morning's newspaper, and I suppose that the  Argus  would not say such a thing if they thought it would be of any use to us who are opposing conscription. Although we are informed that there are about 8,000,000 Russians available, but not now in the firing line, we have been twitted with desiring the Hindu, with his dirty shirt and doubtful turban, to do our fighting. In the name of Heaven, can any sane person believe that England, Italy, or any of our Allies, desires Australia to send a paltry 100,000 men - a mere drop in the bucket - 12,000 miles when these millions of men are not being used? These facts ought to be made known and thought about. Some who pose as patriots ought to remember that this country owes very little to any other country on earth. It has forged its way up by the efforts of the people who came here first, and, owing to labour organization and other means, it is now the country best worth fighting for. Britain is the next best country, and I wish to see her win the war, as I think she can, without any other sacrifice by Australia. If the Home authorities knew as much as we know, they would say, " For Heaven's sake, look after your own country, and do not be any further foolish." So far ai I can gather, the people in France and Great Britain, when the Prime Minister went  to  England, were found to know so much of us that they were surprised to find that he was a white man, so that they cannot be expected to know as much of the conditions here as we do, or be able to judge as well as we can of our circumstances. Within the next twelve months it is proposed to take men from the industries of the country, and this means that we must repudiate the promises made already to the men at the front. Further, the  policy  of the 
Government must pile up the cost of living, so that we shall eventually have the people almost eating each other. The lands of the country will be idle, with no harvest gathered, and no one knows this better than the farmers, who are not so stupid as to shut their eyes to the effect of draining the country of its manhood. Under such circumstances, our harvest can never reach the granaries of the world if we had fifty times the number of ships that  Mr. Hughes  bought in Great Britain. These are all facts that the people of the country ought to know before they vote on the referendum. Here, I should like to say that I cannot see the reasons why the Government are submitting our young men to the indignity of having their thumb-prints taken on enlistment. Was that done to the men who volunteered? If so, I am not aware of the fact. I feel confident that men who volunteered, if asked to do this thing, would have resented it to the utmost. They would have said, " I am not a burglar, or a garotter,  or anybody who has been associated with criminality in this country." Some explanation should certainly be given to the Senate concerning the use of these thumb-prints, and the system should be abandoned immediately. Possibly it was introduced because of the fear of desertions, but, apparently, the Government did not fear desertions among the men who volunteered, and who are now at the front fighting the battles of Australia, and doing so well there. But what would a young man in the trenches think if his parents wrote and told him that his brothers left behind were being dragged up to recruiting depots, and were having their thumb-prints taken, just as if they were burglars or  garotters 
No, it would not. Now, on the question of the referendum among the soldiers, I draw attention to the fact that in the  Argus  of yesterday the military officer in charge of the electoral administration overseas stated that  they  would be ready by the 2Sth October to cable the results of the voting by soldiers, for the information of the people here. Now, I want to know if that vote is to be disclosed so that it may be used before or  on  the morning of the poll in Australia. 
Personally, I do not care whether it is done or not, as I do not think that the Government will get anything like the majority they expect from the soldiers' vote. I have been in conversation with quite a number of returned men, and they have told me the feeling of the men at the front, so I have no fear that the soldiers' vote will have much influence in the direction of foisting conscription on Australia. I was informed to-day - and I hope the Minister will make a note of the statement - that the men who are going into camp now are being asked to sign an oath differing in some respects from the oath signed by the men who volunteered, and are now at the front, and that the oath binds them willy-nilly to go overseas  to fight. I do not know whether there is any truth in that statement or not, but it ought to be replied to by the Minister. The men signing on now should be required to take no other oath than that laid down in the Defence Act. So far as Victoria is concerned, I believe we will get an overwhelming majority of " Noes " at the referendum. I cannot speak for the other States, but I hope that the Democracy of this country will never force conscription on its people. Those acquainted with the history of the Labour movement know why the power of the Government to call upon the people for war services was limited, and they know also that there is no authority for calling on the manhood of Australia to fight outside the Commonwealth. In all probability other people also know the reason for this decision. I want to make it clear that to-day I am fighting where I fought twenty-nine years ago - on the side of organized labour, which enabled me to get into this Parliament, and which captured the government of this country. I have been fighting all the time against the men who advocate black labour for Australia, against the men who sweated the women and children of this country until we got Judge Higgins and a few more Judges to work to prevent them. These people talk about patriotism! Tes, it is the patriotism by means of which they would shove other men into the trenches. Perhaps the men who volunteered were not able to put their thousands of pounds into the fighting fund, but some of them gave their lives, and some are doing it to-day. We have yet to hear of the patriot who has come forward, and placed his money at the service of the country for nothing. The women and nien who have sons overseas, some in the hospitals, and some .in the trenches, come forward to put a shilling or two shillings into our funds, and they are saying to us, " For Heaven's sake, give us literature to stop conscription. We do not want it, and we will not have it." That is the sentiment of the people who are linked up with the Labour movement. Parliamentary parties do not count for very much in such a matter as this, for members of Parliament come and go, and it does not matter to the people whether a man is here for one year or ten years. The people outside, however, do want to know what we are thinking and doing, and, nakedly and unashamedly, I confess I care for no other opinion. The people outside are responsible for my presence in this chamber, as they are for the presence of every other honorable senator, and it has grieved me to think that during the debate of the last two or three weeks, so little regard has been paid to the opinions of the people honorable senators are supposed to represent. It is quite easy to get out of touch with the electors. I know that members of Parliament are busy, and, possibly, when they get in here they find other and more pleasant things to do than to go out amongst the people to keep in touch with them. I regret to think that this party may split, and, perhaps, vanish, but, after all, the Labour movement itself stands as firmly as a rock, and it will be unimpaired in vigour when I and other members of this Parliament have gone. The Labour movement is ever green, ever growing, and ever gathering strength. Those who think otherwise are making a huge mistake. Of course, Labour has made mistakes. No man' and no movement that has ever been worth anything has avoided mistakes. Quite probably the Labour movement will make mistakes again, but it exists in the interests of the people, and I am satisfied that no other political body can so well care for the welfare of Australia. The Labour organizations that are fighting against conscription to-day are doing the right thing. I am satisfied that they will come back from this appeal to the people, as they have done on the last two or three occasions, with a triumphant majority behind them. They will deserve it, and I believe further -that the British, French, Russian, Italian, and German soldiers on the battlefields of Europe today will say, if we reject this proposal, that Australia has acted wisely. We have sent more men to the front than any other nation  SO'  far removed from the scene of conflict would have ever dreamt of sending. The people of the Old World, many of whom thought we were all blackfellows out here, never dreamt that we would send as many to the front as we have. I venture to believe that those people, if consulted, would be the first to say, " For Heaven's sake, consider the welfare of your own country. After the war, complications may arise of which we know nothing at present. Do not leave Australia with none but its old men, its women, and its children to protect your magnificent heritage. Keep some of your fighting material at home." Let us show the world that, although we have sent something like 300,000 of our finest fighting material to the other end of the earth, Australia has still a " kick " in her. Place in the hands of the men remaining here the means of putting up a fight, and I venture to say that we shall be able to protect ourselves against any nation that tries to trouble us. I do not desire to " ski te " about Australia, but, having regard to our geographical position, I am confident that, given a Government willing to spend on the equipment of our men one-half the money we have already spent on this war, there is no combination of nations - and you can chuck Great Britain in - that would trouble us. 
Leave them there until a few Australian Workers Union men went up there shearing next year, ana they would account for them. It is not many years since the most powerful maritime nation on earth took on the job of defeating one of the weakest countries. A nation of 45,000,000 people, with the greatest Navy on the seas, took two and a half years to conquer the Boer Republic, which could only put in the field about one man to every seven that we could put in the field to-morrow. I believe I am well within the mark when I say that, given men decently armed and equipped, we need not worry about other nations taking Australia. I have no desire to import any bitterness into this fight. When we go into the country, our endeavour must be not to engender any ill-feeling in the minds of the people. I shall put before them the position as I see it. I shall tell them of the danger to Australia that I see in the proposals of the Government. Those dangers, to my mind, are very real, and the people of Australia are alive to them. Having said so much I shall leave it to the people to decide this question. 
As one of the loyal eight who voted against the adjournment of the Senate on Friday last, I wish to explain that, as a representative of Victoria, 1 felt it my duty to take that action as a protest against the failure of the Government to take this Chamber into its confidence by placing the proclamation, and everything relating to it, before us. . Had they adopted that course, there would have been no necessity to ask the Senate to meet again this week. The Government to-day, however, have not done much to improve the situation by telling us what they intend to do. 
The honorable senator should be one of the last to interject in that way, seeing that, although a little time ago he was a revolutionary, he is now the silent member of the Government. Having regard to the intricacies of the situation, it would be as well if the sittings of the Senate were continued, if possible, until the date of the referendum. It is advisable, I think, that the people should have a watchdog, in the form of a majority of the Senate, looking after their interests at a time like the present. We are asked to take a retrograde step. Notwithstanding our vaunted freedom and our knowledge of all for which Democracy stands, we are invited to throw back to some fifty years ago. We all remember the  black-birding  that was indulged in when kanakas were recruited from the southern seas. You,  Mr. President,  recollect the effect of that recruiting on Queensland. The result of the employment of kanaka labour in the cane-fields of Queensland was such as te cause grave concern throughout Australia, with the result that as soon as it was established, the National Parliament legislated to give effect to the policy of a White Australia, and the supporters of that principle did not cease to agitate until the kanakas were returned to their island homes, and Australia was made white. We intend to keep it white, and unless Australia is drained of its manhood by the adoption of the Government's proposals, there will be no room here for any coloured alien races. In view of legal opinions that have been given, it seems to me that the action of the Government in calling up men ostensibly for home service, but actually for service overseas, is illegal and unconstitutional. I have heard it inferred by the Minister for Defence that in time of war the Constitution is cast into the national dust-bin. That seems to be the position to-day; but one good effect of the referendum, which I hope will be defeated, and of the proclamation which has been issued, is the fact that it will give the lie direct to those who have said that Australia has not done her duty in the way of voluntary enlistment. It has been shown already, within two days after the issue of the proclamation, that very few eligible fit men remain to be called into camp. The returns from two of the most important inland centres of Victoria are given in the  Herald,  tonight as follows: - 
Certainly not. Many of the " would-to-God " brigade, whose years protect them, say things of that kind of the younger men, without inquiring into their circumstances.  Senator Lynch  again made his oft-repeated statement that he is a conscriptionist because Ireland has been bled white under voluntarism. The members of the Labour party have had for many years to fight calumnies, including charges of tearing the marriage certificate to pieces, dissolving the marriage tie, conscripting the children of the nation and putting them into communistic nurseries, advocating polygamy, and stirring up sectarianism. That issue has been trailed through our ranks for years, but we thought that we had scotched it at last. Now, some of these people, and those standing behind them, are endeavouring to introduce that cursed, dastardly thing known as sectarianism into this fight, in order to throw odium cn those standing against conscription, using it as the LiberalcumConservative party tried to do in days done by, although unsuccessfully, to hoist themselves into power. In striking contrast to  Senator Lynch's  statement, other people in this community have stated repeatedly in recent weeks that they are conscriptionists because Irishmen have not volunteered in Australia. What an incongruous position ! One man is a conscriptionist because Ireland has spilled her blood voluntarily, and others are in the same camp because Ireland has not. As a reader of history, one who knows his countrymen, and looking at the meagre returns coming in now as showing the few eligible men left, I know that Irishmen, Englishmen, Scotchmen, Cornishmen,  and Welshmen have played their part manfully and well. It is unkind, it is unfair, it is a thing that we should not expect in a supposedly broad-minded country such as this, the recent fine deeds of whose sons will shine from the pages of history in letters of fire in days to come, rivalling the doings of the Irish Fusiliers in the great offensive on the Somme, that men calling themselves Irishmen should say they are conscriptionists because Ireland has given so much of her blood, while Others in the same camp bring in the sectarian serpent again by saying that they are conscriptionists because Irishmen in Australia have not volunteered. I refuse to believe that the position is as they represent it to be, but I take this opportunity to try once again, I hope for the last time, to get my heel on the head of the serpent of sectarianism. 
If the honorable senator does not know it,. I do. One of the surprises of this campaign is to find that it is as insidious as the serpent itself. If the honorable senator wants my authority, I can refer him to some of the leading men in this country, although they are not game to get on the platform; but if they can get hold of the ear of some old woman, whether in skirts or in trousers, they will pour the story out in order to get their unfortunate victim to vote " Yes." In characteristic style,  Senator Lynch  has reiterated the slander that has been levelled against the Socialists of Australia, but as progressive figures show that so many workers have gone to the front it is surprising that any representative public man would stoop so low as to try to discredit the great Socialist cause. 
He has in this matter. The fact that a big percentage of those who have gone to the front are Labourites is admitted by conscriptionists and by the opponents of the Labour party. No Labourite is worthy of the name if he is not a Socialist. We are here in this chamber because Socialists have put us here, and we are expected to fight for them. I stand by those who put me here, and I say that they have played their part faithfully and well in the battles of this war,, and as bravely as anyother unit of the Empire or of the Allies who are with us. 
Socialism is essentially for peace, but the Socialist is not a peaceful man when he gets a crack in the jaw. As the honorable senator has experienced in many a campaign, the Socialist can hit back. We are expected to keep faith with those who have sent us to the Senate by not bringing in conscription. If we bring into being this accursed thing, which will brand every man it sends into the ranks as Cain was branded, those maligned Socialists and other free Australians who have gone to the front, leaving a country noted for its free institutions and its advanced thought, will return to find a Prussianized Australia. I have seen letters written from men at the front hoping that this thing will not be done. Despite the oft-repeated  mentionings  on the conscriptionist platforms to the contrary, our men at the front do not want Australians conscripted to bring them out of the trenches. 1 believe that they will fight their own way out of anything. Talking of the brand of Cain brings me to a matter which we did not suspect when, thinking that something which we should know and which we should debate might be done under the proclamation, we prevented the adjournment of the Senate. The thumb-prints of men who are called up and are rejected as medically unfit are now being taken. Those of us who have been on gold-fields know what fights we have had to make against mine-owners to prevent the personal search of miners and the imposition of other obscene indignities. Yet, now it is proposed to class with Chinamen, criminals, and lunatics the men who are called up for military service. I am pleased that I am, for once, in agreement with  Senator Millen.  He says that it is not playing the game, and that men should not be classed as criminals by having records of their thumb-prints taken. Another method should be adopted. A statutory declaration on the discharge certificate, with a notification that it must not be transferred to any one else under the pain of a heavy penalty, would make a man very careful about letting it go out of his hands. I do not agree with  Senator Millen's  suggestion that photographs of medical rejects should be taken. It savours too much of the Rogues' gallery, because the Criminal Investigation Department has photographs, as well as thumb-prints, of criminals. T think that the signed declaration on each certificate should be ample safeguard. I know that the Government are anxious that the Senate should adjourn, but I am not anxious to see the sittings of the Senate conclude. There is much to be watched. Ministers withhold too much. We know that they have quite enough to put up with, and we have no desire to increase their worries, but their position would be much better if they were franker and more candid with Parliament. The censorship is too rigid, and we know that the Government could secure from the newspapers more impartial treatment of those who are opposing conscription. At other times, if a public man secures one report of his speeches, he does not expect any more, but now it frequently happens that the same type of speech that a supporter of conscription is making appears time after time in the press; whereas the anti-conscriptionist, breaking new ground, and speaking possibly for the first time, does not get from the press that consideration that he should get in order that the people may be made acquainted with the principles and aims of those who are opposing the imposition of compulsory military service overseas. The municipal representatives are being asked to take a hand in this business. 

 Senator -Millen. - What is more important, they are responding to the appeal. 
Some of them are, and the ratepayers- later will want to know why. Urgent telegrams have been sent to the mayors and presidents of shires throughout Australia, many of whom have been in the past the opponents of the Prime Minister and of his party. They have been asked to call public meetings to foist conscription on the people, and to beat down the anti-conscriptionists. Last week I asked  Senator Pearce  where the money to pay for these telegrams was coming from. The amount must be considerable. I asked if the Government were paying for the telegrams. The honorable gentleman said that the Government was not paying for them, and when I asked who was paying, he very impolitely told me to mind my own business. I consider that, as a representative of the people, it is my business to know who is paying for these telegrams. As a ratepayer, I consider that the telegram sent to my district is an insult, and I object to the public halls in it being hired with the money of anti-conscriptionist ratepayers to advance the conscriptionist cause. What is being  done shows the lengths to which the Government and its supporters are ready to go in order to strike down the anticonscriptionists, and to force conscription on Australia, so that our men may be cast into the trenches whether they like it or not. Our soldiers have done re-'  markably  well. Australia has given as much as she can afford in men, but not as much as she can afford in wealth. More will have to be done for the raising of revenue. It ill becomes those responsible for the present position to cast the odium upon us. Although thirteen years have elapsed since  Sir William  Irvine tried to coerce the people of Victoria, his action is remembered by the Democracy as though it were the action of yesterday, and after thirty-three years the people" will not forget this attempt to put a blot upon them. Unfortunately, the die has been cast so far as the Referendum Bill is concerned, but it is for the people to say whether they will indorse the action of Parliament. I believe that they will refuse to indorse it, and that Svengali and his Trilbies will find themselves one and all discredited when the vote has been taken. 
. -I am very sorry that my health has not permitted me to take part in an earlier discussion of this matter. I am not equal to-night to the task of expressing all that I feel regarding the present position of affairs, but I wish to make it clear that I believe that the Government are doing the right thing in the interests of Australia. I believe that they are doing that which is making for the welfare of our country and of our nation. I agree with the two previous speakers that the anti-conscriptionists have as much right to express their opinion as the conscriptionists, but no power is so equal to the expression of an opinion on this question as the people of Australia. I hold that the electors have the right to express their opinion, and I wish it to be clearly understood that my vote on the referendum question will be "Yes." When a candidate at the last election, I promised faithfully from the platform that I would do everything within human capability for the prosecution of the war to a successful finish, and I stand to that position still. I should regard myself as recreant, not only to my nation, but to my manhood, were I to depart from it at the present moment. 
I told them that I would advocate anything that would win the war, and I say that now. If I were wanted to fight, I would do my share, old as I am. I am prepared to go to-morrow. It has been said that conscription will do an injury to Australia, that it will prejudice Australian interests, and interfere with our freedom of government. I have more faith in our people than to believe that possible. They will take all sorts of care, while thebanner of Democracy floats over them, that democratic principles are fully recognised. To use the word of  Senator Lynch,  it is hypocritical to attempt to persuade the people that conscription will cripple them for all time. We have four divisions at the front, four noble divisions of noble men. Many of my friends, men whom I adore, are among them. The anticonscriptionists ask usto give these men the go-by. They ask us to say to them, " Fight on, but we are no longer prepared to assist you in the great struggle for our national existence." In my opinion, it is infinitely better that Australia should be fought for in Flanders than that Australians should have to defend their country on their own soil. When we have to defend this Commonwealth in Australia, it will be God help Australia. I believe that every man's common sense should impel him to a recognition of that fact. What can we do to defend ourselves in Australia? We are absolutely unable to fight for our own country. It is only because we have the big battalions of the Allied Forces on our side that we can consider ourselves secure. Some honorable senators have talked about Socialism, but I pass all that over. Socialism is all right, but what we have to consider is what is best for our nation. I am not going to upbraid the anti-conscriptionists. They may be against anything they please, but, so far as I am concerned, when I go on to the public platform I intend, not only to try to point out to the people the obligation we oweto the men fighting for us in the trenches, but to advise all I know to send as many of the able-bodied qualified men as we can from Australia to support them, in order that we may win a victory by which we can secure Australia's welfare and the nation's right at the same time. That is all I have to say. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.13 to l.15 a.m.(Wednesday). 

 Mr. President- 
I think  Senator Mullan  is right in his contention, and that the amendment should be out of the way before the Minister for Defence replies. The Minister will have the right of reply on the main question after the amendment is disposed of. 
In replying to some of the points that have been raised, I shall not refer to the main question of conscription, because the proper place to debate that matter at this stage is before the electors. I propose to deal with some of the criticisms that have been directed against the Government with regard to the method of issuing the proclamation and regulations, and also with regard to the regulations themselves. As I said before, the Government have taken the responsibility of issuing the proclamation and regulations, and that responsibility must rest with them. The regulations were not completed before Friday last, and any honorable senator who carries his mind back over the last two or three weeks will realize how little time the Prime Minister and I, as the Ministers chiefly responsible for the formulation of the regulations, had in which to deal with them. 
The last revision of those regulations was completed only last Friday; amendments were made in them on that date. 
I do not think they can. This is an entirely new departure for Australia, and probably as a result of experience we shall have to alter many of the regulations. They are not, like the laws of the Medes and Persians, unalterable, and it is the desire of the Government that this innovation shall be introduced with as little friction as possible. Indeed, any Government that consults its own convenience is bound to adopt that policy. The regulation which seems to have caused most criticism is that in regard to the taking of thumbprints. That regulation is confined entirely to the issue of exemption certificates for medical or other reasons. In this connexion, we have some experience to guide us. We have found that there were men who, though medically unfit, were anxious to enlist, and in very many cases - how many we do not know yet, but they number upwards of 1,000 - those men obviously went to the front on medical certificates that did not belong to them at all. Men who were physically fit had been examined and passed, and their certificates were later presented by men who have been found to be absolutely unfit, and obviously had been unfit for a considerable time. 
Some months ago. 
No; in that way the weakness of the old system was revealed to us. We had only the signatures to guide us. 
A bank deals with signatures that are well known, but the Defence Department is dealing with men who may disguise their signatures for a deliberate purpose. At any rate, we had to rely entirely on the signature, and it has proved an inadequate safeguard against deception. This has been most firmly impressed upon me in a report that came to hand from Egypt during the last month. In that document it was stated that over 300 men were being sent home, none of whom had ever done, or had ever been able to do, a day's fighting. It had cost the country hundreds and thousands of pounds to equip them and send them to Egypt, but the doctors who conducted the examination in Egypt said it was obvious that the men had been suffering from infirmities for years, and could not have passed a medical test. Every one of those men must have secured a fit man to personate him in order to get a certificate. Then they went into camp, and the country was put to the expense of training and equipping them, sending them to Egypt, and finally repatriating them. 
That is not the opinion of only one doctor. The Medical Board, which made a second examination of these men, said that it was perfectly obvious that they could never have passed a medical examination at any time during the past two years. 
We could. Those deceptions took place under the voluntary system, and it must be obvious that under the compulsory system the inducement for such practices is ten times stronger. Those were cases of men anxious to go to the front; under the compulsory system we shall be dealing with men who are anxious to avoid going. 
That is a different matter. A defaulter is a deserter, and even the thumb-print would not help to find him. What we are trying to insure is that when men do evade the compulsory law they shall not be able to escape by producing a certificate of exemption which had really been given to another man. 
We do not know what became of him. It is just possible that he made a business of doing this sort of thing, and went from camp to camp. Now. I come to the question of the thumb-print. One honorable senator has suggested that we should do away with the thumb-print and substitute a photograph. 5Tet I heard another honorable senator say that the photograph is associated with criminality. So it is. But does that prevent the photograph being used for identification purposes? I cannot see the difference between a man putting his thumbprint on paper and putting his signature on paper, except that the thumb-print has been used very largely in criminal cases because it has been found the most effective method of detecting crime. 
I do not. But, after all, the impress of a man's thumb upon a paper is only a modification of the impress of his signature upon paper. If we substituted a photograph, would it be argued that we were, therefore, making a man a criminal ? We all have our photographs taken at some time or other. The thumb-print is merely tho means which we propose to adopt to protect the State against fraud. 
Here is a -man  who,  having filled in his attestation paper without a thumb-print, goes up for medical examination. Let us assume that he is found medically unfit. To him will be given a certificate to show that he is exempt from military service. Surely the country has a right to see that that certificate is used by him and by nobody else.  AL  present the only protection that we have against fraud is the signature of a man, and experience has proved this to be faulty. Are we, then, to avail ourselves of no other means of protection ? But the only other methods open to us are those of the photograph and the thumbprint, and the same objection can be used against both. Both are used in connexion with criminal investigation. 
Yes, but it is only a question of degree, and even the signature of a man is used for the purposes of identification. It so happens that the thumb-print is used more in criminal cases than is his signature. Those who argue against the thumb-print, view this matter in a very narrow light. Merely because it is used in one form of criminal investigation, they urge that it is associated with criminality. 
I am not going to please the honorable senator. The objection that has been urged against the thumb-print can also be urged against the photograph, and in a lesser degree, against the signature of a man. It has been repeatedly argued that the thumb-print is associated with criminality, and that we have adopted the idea from Prussia. But I would remind honorable senators that every soldier or sailor entering the United States army or navy has his thumb-print taken. Why? America is not Prussia. America is not a nation which is ruled by an oligarchy or a military caste. The thumb-print is taken in the United States army and navy to enable the authorities to trace deserters. 
In the case of exemptions, on the ground of physical unfitness, it will be, on account of the numerous cases in which fraud has been perpetrated. I am not so foolish as to say that if any better means can be devised, I will rigidly adhere to the thumbprint. But I want to see that the Commonwealth is not defrauded in the future as it has been in the past. If honorable senators can suggest some better means of identification I am prepared to adopt it. At present I do not know of any other means except the photograph, which is not as reliable as is the thumb-print. 
It may be from a sentimental point of view, although I do not by any means discount the power of sentiment. 
When an exemption is granted to a man on the ground of physical unfitness or for some other reason, that exemption will be stated on the certificate which is issued to him. The Department will not hold that certificate. It will keep the attestation papers, and, in order that a comparison may be made between the certificate and those papers, the thumb-print will be impressed upon both. To make quite sure of this, yesterday I issued instructions to that effect to all commandants, because I saw that the regulation might be read to mean that the thumb-print was only to be put on the attestation papers when a man presented himself in response to the proclamation. But anybody who reads it closely will see that it refers only to those who are exempt after medical examination. However, I am quite prepared to give further consideration to the matter, and if I can be satisfied with some other form of identification I am not wedded to the thumb-print, although I think it is the most effective means of identification. In regard to exempt industries,  Senator Findley  asked what will be the nature of the committee which will be established to deal with them. My reply is that it will be a committee which will have nothing to do with individuals. It will be an advisory committee to the Government. The Government will have the right to accept its recommendations, to refuse them, or to modify them. The committee will consist of Professor Lyle, Professor of Engineering of the Melbourne University, who will be its  chairman  ;  Mr. Leitch,  Director of Munitions, who is in close touch with a great number of businesses, because, as honorable senators know, all importations of machinery or plant have to be referred to him before permission can be given for their introduction, in addition to which he is a business man, who has given his services for the periodof the war;  Mr. McClelland,  the Railways Commissioner, a representative of the Chamber of Manufactures, a representative of the Trades Hall, and a representative of the Mines Department. 
No. 
We intend to ask the Minister for Mines to nominate a representative. 
The Victorian Minister for Mines. 
That is so, and it may be necessary to add such a representative. This is an advisory committee, and the Government reserves to itself the right to accept, turn down, or modify any recommendations. 
Within the next few days: and one reason why I did not desire the Senate to meet to-day was to enable arrangements to be made in this connexion. As I have said before, this body will not deal with applicants, who will have to go to the exemption Court. 
We shall invite the Trades Hall to send one. 
The Melbourne Trades Hall. 
Because we cannot invite representatives from all the Trades Halls. As to theological students, I find that they are not exempt in time of war. Exemptions in time of war are dealt with in an earlier section; but these students are exempt from service in the Citizen Forces while they continue as theological students. Ministers of religion are exempt, and persons who have conscientious objections to bear arms may be allotted other duties, as also may theological students. 
I am informed that that happened only in the State of Victoria. The central head-quarters sent out similar instructions to all the States; but, of course, you may get six men to read a document in six different ways, and, unfortunately, some officer in the Victorian office read the instructions wrongly, and gave the extended dates. 
As soon as the notice was seen in the newspapers it was corrected; and in the  Herald  of Saturday the proper notification was published. I think it will be found that no one has been put to any considerable inconvenience. 
What honorable senators have seen on the front pages of newspapers is not paid for at all; the advertisements appear elsewhere, and are much smaller.  Senator Mullan  raised the question of the arrest of persons before trial under these regulations, and quoted paragraph 9. But the honorable senator has apparently not read the Defence Act, because had he done so he would have seen that the regulation is merely a repetition of section 122. 
Yes, under the compulsory service training section of the Defence Act. Where youths have not carried out their training the practice is to arrest them and bring them before the Courts, who decide upon the sentence; and a similar thing is done every day inthe week in the civil Courts. 
They have every privilege of a defendant in an ordinary civil Court. 
I can only say that where a prosecution takes place it will be before a civil Court. A man is a deserter who does not give the service he ought to under the Act, and he may be arrested by any policeman or member of the Defence Force, and brought into camp to render service. If he thinks he is not entitled to serve he may apply for exemption. 
That is so; he may be prosecuted before a civil Court, who may give him six months' imprisonment; and my proposition is that he should be put into camp. 
He cannot serve and be in gaol at the same time. 
No. 
Although a man may expiate his crime, he must still perform his service. It has also been said, in the course of the debate, that a man on going into camp is asked to sign an oath different from that to which other men have to subscribe, and that such oath compels them to go oversea. The oath that the men are asked to subscribe is that set forth in the second schedule, and it does not call upon them to serve overseas. 
I think I have dealt with that matter. 
I said that the regulations were in process of formulation up to Friday, and were put before the Executive on Friday afternoon, when, as honorable senators know, the Senate rose for the week. 
There is no intention that any lawyer or paid agent shall appear, because it is in the employment of such assistance that the expense lies in appealing from one Court to another. An advantage that a wealthy client always has is that he may employ counsel, and go from one Court to another, a procedure which is denied to a poor litigant. 
Very little; it is the lawyers that cost the money. 
-Would the honorable senator say that there should be no appeal? I am satisfied that if I had come down with these regulations, and had stated that a stipendiary magistrate was to be the sole Court, honorable senators would have protested that there should be some Court of appeal. 
I am aware of that, and at the time I submitted my reasons against that course. We have ample evidence in connexion with munition work that such a board would not be desirable. I think I have said all that is required on the present occasion, though I have not dealt with the main discussion on the question of conscription. 
I can give the honorable senator an assurance that the military representative will in no case be a lawyer. I have already informed the military secretary that we are not to appoint, as a military representative, any person who in private life is a lawyer, but a person who follows some other occupation. I can only say that the desire of the Government is that these regulations shall be brought in with as little friction as possible, for we do not want criticism and trouble among those who are called up. There is one other matter to which I might refer, though it was not raised in the discussion, and that is the statement which has appeared in the press to the effect that discharged returned soldiers were being called upon to give up their discharges, and were not getting a receipt for them". As soon as I returned to Melbourne this morning, I rang up the administrative offices, and found that the military secretary,  Colonel Dodds,  had already issued an order to all districts to the effect that immediately a returned soldier gave up his discharge he was to be furnished with a receipt. 
I have no objection whatever to that course. 
I will, later on. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Minister for Defence - (1) What precautions are taken to secure a secret vote in the respective military camps on the referendum proposals? (2) Are scrutineers allowed access to polling booths? (3) If not, will facilities be given for scrutineers to be present ? (4) Will soldiers be given the option of recording their votes with Electoral Registrars? 
My information is that the polling booths in the military camps are to be conducted on exactly the same lines as polling booths in any other part of the Commonwealth. That is to say, whatever privileges are allowed in other polling booths will be enjoyed also in the polling booths attached to the different camps. 
It is not clear to me, from the answer given by the Minister for Defence, what will be the procedure when a soldier is recording his vote at the camps. Will it be necessary for these men to have their names on the roll, or will they simply vote by virtue of the fact that they are in uniform and of twenty-one years of age? 
In regard to a statement appearing in the press that Brigadier-General McC. Anderson, who has charge of the arrangements for taking the referendum amongst our soldiers overseas, will be in a position on the 28th inst. - the date of the poll - to publish a progress report of the voting, I wish to ask the Minister for Defence whether that progress report is to be posted before or after the poll in Australia has been closed ? 
Will the Minister for Defence give the Senate an assurance that no progress report from any polling booth, either inside or outside Australia, will be published in the Commonwealth prior to the closing of the polling booths in Australia on the 28th instant ? 
In view of the fact that the Prime Minister has stated that only men over the age of twenty-one who are entitled to vote will be called up under the recent proclamation, and, having regard also to the fact that the 15th 
September last -was the last day of enrolment, will the Minister for Defence make a statement as to the position of those who have attained the age of twenty-one yeaTs since the closing of the rolls? Will the honorable gentleman state whether such men will be called up under the proclamation, and yet be debarred from voting at the referendum on the 28th instant? 
I ask the Minister for Defence if some relief can be afforded to men who took up obligations with respect to the war loan, and who are not now in a position to keep up their payments owing to the fact that they have been called up under the proclamation just issued, and their income has been considerably reduced. 
 Senator Ferricks  was good enough to tell me that  he  intended to ask this question, and during the day I got into touch with the Treasurer, who informs me that an arrangement is now in force by which soldiers who may be unable to complete their payments may surrender their loan bonds, and suffer no loss thereby. The Treasurer is prepared to make arrangements for further extended payments, and also to effect an adjustment of the interest payable in such cases. I told him of the representations made by  Senator Ferricks,  and he paid that he would give them the most favorable consideration. In view of the fact that some men had probably taken on this obligation when they were receiving a higher wage than they will get in future as military pay, the Treasurer has promised to meet them in every possible way. 
In view of the rumours now in circulation to the effect that Asiatic labour is to be imported into Australia to replace men called up under the Defence Act, will the Minister for Defence give the Senate an assurance that, during the currency of the war, no Asiatic or indentured labour will be imported into Australia ? 
I will give an absolute and emphatic assurance to that effect. 
Will the Minister say whether there is any truth in the rumour that a number of employees of the Harness Factory have recently been knocked off, and that the reason given was that the Department had bought a consignment of saddles from Japan ? 
There is absolutely no truth in the statement that we have imported saddles from Japan. It is true that some employees of the Harness Factory had to be put off because there was no work for them to do. The great rush of orders for the Light Horse, especially in the saddlery department, is over, and there is no work available for them. The Light Horse has not been required so much as was anticipated in the earlier stages of the war. It is absolutely incorrect to say that any saddlery has been imported for the Department from Japan, nor is it the intention in the future to import saddlery from Japan or anywhere else. On the contrary, we are communicating with the British Government, offering to make saddlery for them, and hope to get an order from them before long. 
Where there are two sons in a family, one son being an imbecile or otherwise totally unfit for military service, will the Minister for Defence state whether or not the remaining son would be regarded as an " only son," and be exempt? 
I am not prepared to answer the honorable senator's question offhand. I shall give it consideration and acquaint the honorable senator with the result. 
Will the Minister give the same consideration as he promised  Senator Barnes  to cases where there are two sons in a family, one of whom is totally incapacitated physically from rendering any aid to his parents ? Will he regard the second son in a case of that sort as the only Bon ? 
I ask the Minister for Defence if it is a fact (1) That the soldiers at Maribyrnong Camp were flooded out last week ? (2) That the men asked to be allowed to go to their homes owing to all the blankets being wet, and were refused ? (3) That 300 of them did go home, and when they came back next morning were immediately placed under detention, and are still there? (4) That they have no tents or blankets or anything else to sleep in ? (5) Will they get leave to go home before embarking ? 
The honorable senator was good enough to tell me this morning that he intended to ask this question, so I have had an opportunity to make inquiries, and have received the following reply: - 
Owing to the wet weather practically the whole camp were given week-end leave from Saturday to Monday. When they turned up on Monday it was still wet, and leave was extended to Tuesday. On their reporting again on Tuesday they were issued with new blankets, put in buildings and huts, and everything was done to make them comfortable. It was on the Tuesday that the men, or some  section  of them, wished more leave, and they marched out of camp. On turning up next morning they were each fined £2, and awarded fourteen days' detention. The question of final leave is not affected. Those who have not had their leave will get it. 
Arising out of the statement made by the Minister for Defence in reply to  Senator Barnes,  that certain men in the Maribyrnong Camp had been fined £2 for being absent for one day without leave, I desire to ask the Minister why there has been a departure in that case from the principle laid down in connexion with the Bendigo Camp, that one day's pay shall be deducted in respect of each day that a soldier is absent without leave? 
Those who heard my explanation in reply to  Senator Barnes'  question will know that in this case something more than absence without leave was involved. The men marched out of camp in defiance of orders, so that the punishment was for disobedience of orders as well as for absence without leave. The principle to which the honorable senator has referred relates to cases where men have overstayed their leave. These men asked for leave to go out, were refused, and, in defiance of that refusal, marched out of camp. 
Under no provocation. 
Will the Minister for Defence be good enough to give the Senate the reasons which these men supplied to their commanding officer for their desire to leave camp on the particular date to which he refers, and why they were refused leave? I do not know the men, nor am I aware of the reasons for their action. 
A considerable number of soldiers have recently been returned to Australia to undergo, in some cases, terms of imprisonment ranging from two years to five years. I wish to ask the Minister for Defence what steps have been taken to review these cases ? 
I answered a similar question some time ago in the Senate. We have asked that when men are sent back to Australia to undergo imprisonment all the papers relating to their cases shall be returned with them, or as soon after as possible. A committee, consisting of  Mr. Cohen,  police magistrate, of Victoria,  Major Mclnerney,  who is a barrister as well as a military officer called up for duty, and an officer who has been returned, wounded, from the front, has been appointed to go into the facts of each case as disclosed by the papers. That committee has power to recommend a mitigation of the punishment inflicted. A number of cases have been dealt with, and in some instances a remission of the sentence has been recommended and granted. The remaining cases will be dealt with as the papers arrive. 
The Minister, before the motion is put to the vote, ought to fulfil his implied promise that before the Senate rose he would table the regulations under the War Precautions Act and Defence Act. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
An award has been given by the  President  of the Arbitration Court in the case of the Telegraph and Telephone Instrument Linesmen and the Postal Electricians Union. The law provides that, when an award is given under the Public Service Act, it must lie on the table of Parliament for thirty days before it becomes operative. I approached the Minister yesterday afternoon to ascertain whether the award would be laid on the table before Parliament adjourned. He told me that he would see if it was possible to have it officially handed to him, so that he could lay it on the table. Later in the evening he told me it was impossible to get the award officially, and consequently he could not table it. Under the award, the members of each organization have been given increases in wages. I do not blame the Government or the Minister for the delay. It is the fault of the Act. It is ridiculous that men who have fought their case through the Arbitration Court should be deprived of practically two months' benefit of the award because Parliament will not assemble till a certain date. Outside organizations have their awards dated from the date of determination. If Parliament had been sitting, thirty days would have elapsed after the tabling of this award before it operated ; but under present circumstances the delay will be much longer. Is there any way, short of an amendment of the Public Service (Arbitration) Act, by which, when Parliament reassembles, the two organizations named can be given the benefit of the award from the date of determination? If not, will the Government take the earliest opportunity of amending the Act so that the people employed in our Service who are members of organizations within the Service will get the benefit of an award from the date on which it is given by the J udge? 
It is quite correct that I told  Senator Needham  that I would endeavour to have the award laid on the table before the Senate rose, but I find that if I had done so it would not have affected the position, because the award has to be laid on the table of both Houses in order to comply with the law. The delay has been occasioned by the fact that the award had been forwarded to the Attorney-General, whose certificate that it complies with the law has first to be obtained. There are difficulties that are encountered in following what is prescribed by the law. I cannot make any promise that the public servants referred to shall be paid from the date of the delivery of the award, though at the same time I hold the view that they should get the benefit of any improvement made in their conditions at the very earliest opportunity it is legally possible to give it to them. 
When I endeavoured to pass a few remarks before the last motion was dealt with it was merely for the purpose of drawing attention to another phase of the proclamation conditions, which I consider to be overdone. I refer to the questions that are put to conscientious objectors, which savour of the inquisitorial. I do not know that they will be very effective. Question 5b says - 
What evidence can you produce in support of your statement? Please forward written evidence from persons of standing, if possible, which should be quite definite of the nature of the sincerity of your conscientious objections. 
That question seems to be rather superfluous, and I do not anticipate that much benefit will be derived from it. I do not know how another person can vouch for the sincerity of one who claims to object on conscientious grounds. Question 6 says - 
Are you a member of a religious body, and, if so, what body? 
Is it one of the tenets of that body that any member must engage in no militaryservice whatsoever ? 
Does the body penalize in any way a member who does engage in military service? If so, in what way? When did you become a member of that body? 
That question also is hardly necessary. I do not think it will have any beneficial application. There are no penalties among religious bodies in Australia. If a person who has religious scruples objects, it is not because of any penalty that may be imposed on him by religious organizations. As the question is a very delicate one, it might with advantage be deleted. Information to hand, I regret to say, indicates that the censorship has not been relaxed to the extent that we might have expected after the way in which the subject has been ventilated. When speaking previously on this question, I referred to the elaborate preparations which were being made by the Prime Minister to conduct the affirmative campaign, and disseminate literature supporting the Government's proposal.  I  stated that the Prime Minister had engaged a prominent Sydney journalist to come to Melbourne and supervise the distribution of literature in favour of the affirmative throughout Victoria. In the  Ballarat Star  of the 2nd October appears a column of paragraphs arguing the affirmative in regard to conscription, and signed by Adam McKay, 390 Collinsstreet. This confirms my statement that arguments in support of the affirmative are being spread broadcast. We are not told who is bearing the expense of this propaganda - whether the money is coming out of the Consolidated Revenue or out of  a  secret service fund. There is another journalist in Sydney with a staff engaged in distributing literature in New South Wales. These people are not working for nothing, and it is due to the Senate  to  be told whether the expense is being borne by the Consolidated Revenue ; that is, by the people as a whole - whether they are opposing conscription or supporting it. We should know who is paying the piper. 
We ought to be told whether it is public money that  is  being spent. On the last occasion the Minister did not vouchsafe any reply  in  that regard. In support of my contention that the censorship has not been sufficiently relaxed, let me read a letter that I received from  Mr. Randolph  Bedford, the well-known writer. I had an opportunity of seeing  Mr. Bedford  to-night, and asked Him whether the conditions  mentioned in the communication were still existent. He told me they were intensely so. His letter to me is a follows: - 
Melbourne, Oct. 3, 1916. 
Dear  Senator Ferricks, 
I write immediately after seeing the  Age  of September 22,  Senator Pearce's  reply to the statements on the censorship made by  Senator McKissock  and yourself. To instance the  Age  report of the Senate proceedings of September 21 - 
Instructions had been issued that they must say nothing offensive of  Mr. Hughes. 
The Minister of Defence. - Nonsense. Of course, it is nonsense, but it is also true. I have seen this typed instruction from the censor, and at little trouble can dig it up and send it to you. The irritatingly stupid censorship carried it to the length of censoring a theatrical paragraph in advance of Henry Lawson's play, "While the Billy Boils," because the comment on the fact of the play was that " It had nothing to do with Billy Hughes boiling in England." And the Minister for Defence, by the censor's suggestion, is sacrosanct against criticism as a politician, because criticism of  Senator Pearce  is hostile criticism of military administration. 
The censorship, whilst suppressing facts that could not help the enemy, has, on occasion, suggested the printing of falsehoods, and it has only broken down because Sydney editors threatened to leave the Sydney conscription meeting of September 18 severely alone unless the right of free speech were re-established. How old, too, are the censorship instructions against the mention of "White Australia" or " Cheap Labour "? 
But the worst of  Senator Pearce's  replies,  re  the censorship, is that to the question of  Senator McKissock(Age,  September 22) - " The Minister for Defence repeated that it was not true that there was trouble at Broken Hill, nor had the news about trouble been censored." 
That statement is untrue in spirit and in fact. Every newspaper knows that Broken Hill news is censored, and the Government has probably good and sufficient reason for censorship, owing to its faulty conception of the Australian character. If there is danger from any active enemy, a statement of the facts to the public would demand less of this amateur diplomacy, which is the science of lies. 
One of the most flagrantly stupid examples of this diplomacy is that of the case of  Mr. Noonan,  proprietor of four hotels at Broken Hill. He left for Adelaide on holiday, having instructed his manager to send an urgent wire on anything of moment to his business. Trouble came along among the employees. The manager telegraphed to his employer, and the telegram was censored and suppressed. When  Mr. 
Koonan leisurely returned, he found his business disorganized; made trouble with the manager; traced the wire to the censor; and not beyond. And yet  Senator Pearce  says there is no censorshipof Broken Hill trouble; which is just as true as his denial of the fact that in Egypt Australian private soldiers are forced to travel third class on the railroad, whether they offer to pay first class or not. 
Either  Senator Pearce  knows nothing of the military censorship, or he rivals  Mr. Asquith  in that which is called "diplomacy" in England, and " side-stepping " in Australia. 
The stand taken by the Sydney daily newspapers against the dictatorship of  Mr. Hughes  confirms my statement about the suppression of resolutions by the Executive Labour bodies of Victoria, New South Wales, and Queensland denouncing  Mr. Hughes  and his proposals. That statement was challenged, but we know that the only information which the press was allowed to publish was that authorized by  Mr. Hughes,  with his own colouring. After the Political Labour League executive and the Labour Council of New South Wales had turned down  Mr. Hughes'  proposals by immense majorities, he prevented the news from being published in the Sydney papers, and sent an authorized statement, with a colouring favorable to himself, or putting the best construction on the facts. The Sydney  Daily Telegraph  refused to publish his authorized statement, and the threat of the newspapers of Sydney to leave unnoticed a conscription meeting at which he was to speak had the effect of relaxing the censorship. But if things are to continue as they are,  Mr. Hughes'  promise of a fair deal to both sides will not be fulfilled. We have reason to believe that the censor is again on the job, and is rather strict in regard to Inter-State news, such as resolutions passed in some of the States favoring temporary stop-work meetings as a protest against the proclamation calling men to the colours. It is strange that nothing has appeared in the newspapers regarding what is happening in the other States in this matter. The information which has been made known to-night about the holding of anti-conscription meetings in Western Australia is proof of the interference of the censor. Probably it was anticipated that the Senate would ad journ yesterday after a merely formal meeting. Obviously the despicable art of suppression is being again practised to an unwarrantable degree. I suggest that the Minister for Defence should here and now give the country an undertaking that the despotism initiated by  Mr. Hughes  shall not continue throughout the referendum campaign. If he does not, we shall be forced to a conclusion that  Mr. Hughes  desires to pursue the policy of a dictator.  Mr. Randolph  Bedford and others speak of the censorship as stupid, foolish, and unwarranted. I trust that serious consideration will be given to this matter, because, otherwise, those opposing conscription will have no chance of getting their views fairly represented by the press. 
I rise to complain that the Minister for Home Affairs is apparently treating the Senate with contempt. As it would be useless to bring the matter under his notice, I shall be glad if the Minister for Defence will bring it under the notice of the Prime Minister, so that when the Senate meets again the cause for complaint may have been removed. On the 13th September, I asked the following questions concerning  Mr. Oliver:  - 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice - 
Upon whose advice or recommendation was  Mr. C.  E. Oliver appointedas consulting sanitary engineer to the Home Affairs Department ? 
What are the terms of his engagement, including fees and travelling expenses? 
What reasons existed for his appointment? 
To those questions,  Senator Russell,  speaking for the Department of Home Affairs, replied - 

 Mr. Oliver has not been appointed as consulting sanitary engineer to the Home Affairs Department. He has, however, been engaged to furnish a comprehensive report upon the sanitary systems for the Federal Capital upon the recommendationof  Mr. Griffin,  Federal Capital Director of Design and Construction, submitted 25th February, 1916, following on the recommendation to  Mr. Kelly  and  Mr. Archibald,  when Minister, and after an appointment of  Mr. Oliver  had been made on the authority of the former, but which was not approved by the latter named. 
His feefor this service is £1,000, and the travelling expenses necessary to him for the purpose of his report are to be paid by the Commonwealth. 
It was necessary to have expert advice. 
Subsequently I asked that all the papers relating to the matter might be laid on the table of the Senate, and I received the reply that they would be laid on the table of the Library for the inspection of honorable senators. About a week later, I was informed that they had been laid on the table of the Library, but, on investigating the file, I found that only two or three comparatively unimportant papers had been produced. Although, in reply to my question, it was stated that  Mr. Griffin  recommended the engagement of  Mr. Oliver  to  Mr. Kelly  when he was Assistant Minister for Home Affairs, and also to  Mr. Archibald  when he held the position of Minister, the first of the papers produced is dated 8th May, 1916, or only two or three months ago. It is a document . from  Mr. King  O'Malley, as Minister for Home Affairs, informing  Mr. Oliver  that, on behalf of the Government, he engaged him as consulting engineer to report on the water supply and sewerage works required for the Federal Capital at Canberra. It lays down the conditions of engagement, and states that  Mr. Oliver  was to be at liberty to appoint an expert sewerage draftsman and a skilled water supply draftsman, that he was to have the entire services of both these men; that he was to have complete office accommodation and such a staff of clerks as he required, with full control of all these officers, including the right to appoint and suspend them. The conditions provided, further, that  Mr. Oliver  was to say whether the staff placed under his control should be engaged in Melbourne or at Canberra. It was further provided that he was to have all his expenses paid, including board and lodging when away from Melbourne. Some notice should be taken of this shameful waste of money by the Home Affairs Department, and I shall probably take a more fitting opportunity to deal with that aspect of the matter in detail. I wish now specially to direct the attention of the Prime Minister, through the Minister for Defence, to the fact that, whilst all the papers connected with the engagement of  Mr. Oliver  were promised, only a few comparatively unimportant papers have been produced. The first of these, as I have said, is dated 8th May, 1916, and the second is dated 25th May, 1916. This was a request from the Acting Prime Minister,  Senator Pearce,  to the Minister for Home Affairs not to finalize the contract with  Mr. Oliver  until He had supplied a memorandum setting out all the circumstances connected therewith. One would naturally expect to find amongst the papers a reply from the Minister for Home Affairs giving the Acting Prime Minister the particulars asked for, but amongst the papers that have been produced there is no document of this kind. There is a short scribbled note on the corner of one of the papers, I presume in 

 Mr. O'Malley's handwriting, to say that the matter was settled by a private chat with the Acting Prime Minister. When the Senate meets again I shall be glad if  Senator Pearce,  who , should have some regard for the [dignity of this Chamber, will see that it is not flouted by a weak Minister of the Crown who is governed apparently by a gentleman who has been imported from America. From all I can learn, it would seem that ever since  Mr. O'Mal  ley assumed office for the second timeas Minister for Home Affairs that Department has been run wholly and solelyby  Mr. 
Griffin. Every recommendationm ade by that gentleman has been adopted by the present Minister for Home Affairs .  Mr. Griffin  has on more than oneoccasion treated the Public Works Committee with scant courtesy, and that expression scarcely describes the treatmentof that Committee by the Home Affairs Department.  Mr. Griffin  has practically defied the Public Works Committee. He has, apparently, influenced the presentMinister for Home Affairs to endeavour to discredit the work of the Committee. After careful inquiry, and the taking of evidence from practically all the sanitary engineers accessible in Australia as to the construction of sewerage works at Canberra after the submission of the Committee's report to Parliament, and after the bulk of the work had been practically finished,  Mr. Oliver  was engaged at the very extravagant fee of £1,000, and perhaps another £2,000 or more for the expenses of the staff he was allowed to employ. This money has been absolutely thrown away at a time when we certainly have none to waste, apparently in order that the work of the Public Works Committee may be discredited. These who know anything about the Federal Capital are aware that the water supply works have been practically completed. The mains and service reservoirs have been completed, and the main sewer world have been practically completed, and  yet  the Minister for Home Affairs engages  Mr. Oliver  to report upon these works. The special grievance I desire to ventil ate on this motion is that the Home Affairs Department has in my opinion deliberately flouted the express desire of theSenate that all the papers connected with the engagement of  Mr. Oliver  should be submitted for the inspection of senators. 
Last week there was laid on the table of the Senate the award by  Mr. Justice  Powers in the case of the Postal Assistants Union. Though, in the main, I have been able to agree with the decisions given by  Mr. Justice  Higgins,  Mr. Justice  Powers, and other Justices of the Arbitration Court, I wish to enter my protest against the award given in this case by  Mr. Justice  Powers. The members of the Postal Assistants Union spent about £500 in getting their case before the Arbitration Court.  Mr. Justice  Powers, by his decision, has raised the wages of senior postal assistants by £6, namely from £126 to £132 per annum, but the wages of those in the junior gradesare left stationary at £126 by his award. As this may be the last opportunity to protest against the award, I wish now to say that I am totally opposed to  Mr. Justice  Powers' decision, and formally enter my protest against it. I know the union has spent about £500 and levied fees to the extent of about a guinea per member, and yet, after fighting this case over a lengthy period, the men find that they are no better off than when they entered into litigation. I trust that the Senate will see that the award is altered. 
I cannot allow the opportunity to pass without once more referring to the vagaries of the censor - that military demon who is causing so much trouble. Over and over again we received assurances from the Minister and his departmental officers that the censorship was to be relaxed, but I find that the censor has been busy on a speech of mine made last Thursday. Of course, the censor could not touch the speech in  Hansard,  but somebody thought fit to republish it as a pamphlet, and the censor proceeded to mutilate it. I made a perfectly innocent quotation, although one necessary for the purpose of proving my point, but the censor has rendered the whole quotation useless. I was quoting a letter written by  Mr. Ross,  of the  Socialist,  and a portion which I quoted stated - 
I have also to complain of the wording of a wire from myself to the Amalgamated Miners Association of Broken Hill being altered by the censor. 
In the name of Heaven, what is there in that statement for the censor to take exception to ? Yet it is an important part of the letter. The letter continued: - " The wire was not sent as written, and, consequently." That also was struck out. Further,  Mr. Eoss  stated, " I cannot now get  Barrier Daily Truth  through the post." That has been struck out. What advantage can there be in the censor cutting up a speech in that fashion ? If a senator's speech has been allowed to appear in  Hansard,  and it contains nothing of a seditious character or prejudicial to the safety of the nation, there is no reason why it should be mutilated. 
Are you not going to give us a rest? 
You do not want any assurance. You. know that. 
Are you trying to keep us here all night? You have had a fair innings. 
And I feel inclined to use it. 
This is the second time that all this matter has been put into  Hansard. 
I do not propose to traverse ' the very many statements that have been made by honorable senators. Where those statements refer to questions which they wish to bring under my notice, I hope they will send me along a copy of their remarks.  la  regard to the observations of  Senator 
Mullan, I have already given assurances which I ask him to accept. A few days ago he inquired whether, in the event of arguments for and against conscription being allowed in the  News Gazette,  which, is circulated amongst the members of the Australian Imperial Force abroad, the Minister for External Affairs would see that equal space is given to each side. 1 brought that question ' under the notice of my colleague, who has furnished me with the following reply - 
With regard to the news service recently inaugurated by the Government for the benefit of the troops abroad,' I desire to state that the items forwarded daily are news items extracted for tha most part from the daily press. No arguments on the conscription issue are telegraphed. I attach copies cf the last two or three messages sent which indicate the class o( matter which is being transmitted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 3.3 a.m. (Wednesday). 
 By leave,  I have to announce to the Senate that, on the 14th November last, the Right Honorable William Morris Hughes tendered to the Governor-General his resig nation as Prime Minister, and that His Excellency was pleased to accept it. On the same day the Right Honorable William Morris Hughes tendered to the Governor-General a request for the issue of a commission to form a new Government, and the request was granted. Accordingly a new Administration was formed, and offices allotted as follows: - 
I ask the Minister for Defence, without notice (1) Is he aware that citizens are being prosecuted in Tasmania for interrupting public meetings, and that where they are conscriptionists the charges against them are being dismissed, whilst where they are anti-conscriptionists they are being heavily fined? (2) Is the Minister aware that two women were prosecuted in Launceston, Tasmania, who have, respectively, five and three sons at the front fighting for the Empire? (3) Will the Minister have inquiries made into these cases with a view to asking that the fines be remitted? 
I have no knowledge as to any of the statements included in the honorable senator's ques tions. I am not aware in any case that such prosecutions come under the Defence Department. Disturbance at a public meeting is an offence against the Electoral Act, and, that being so, such prosecutions would be under the Minister administering that Act. I suggest to the honorable senator that he might direct his questions to that Minister. 
In view of the decision of the people at the referendum held on 28th October, is it the intention of the Government to withdraw all warrants issued against persons who have been charged with evasion of the recent proclamation under the Defence Act, and to remit all sentences already inflicted? If not, why not? 
The action suggested by the honorable senator's questions has already been taken except in the case of those who have been sentenced, and who have avoided arrest. In such cases the sentences will not be remitted. 
In such cases the sentences will not be remitted until the offenders have been arrested, when the subsequent action to be taken in their case will be determined. 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether he has received any representations concerning complaints which are very general amongst the Australian soldiers in Egypt as to the conditions under which they are compelled to travel in railway trains. For his information I may say that even when they are prepared to pay their fares they are compelled to travel in a class of carriage which they do not appreciate, and to consort with persons whom they do not think desirable? 
Order ! The honorable senator must not make statements. 
No representations of the kind have been' made to me as Minister, or to the Department, but certain statements did appear in the press of Australia, and these were referred to Egypt for report. That report has been received, and I shall be glad to let the honorable senator have a copy of it. 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister, in regard to the statement appearing in the press that the Commonwealth Government have negotiated the sale of the Australian wool clip to the Imperial authorities at a flat rate per poundi whether he will see that, in the organization which is devised for distributing that flat rate, the growers themselves are represented. Will he bring this matter under the notice of his colleagues? 
I shall certainly bring the honorable senator's' question under the notice of the Prime Minister. 
I ask the Minister for Defence if he will see that effect is given to the Prime Minister's promise that where farmers' son's have voluntarily enlisted for service abroad they will be granted leave of absence to enable them to assist in the forthcoming harvest? 
In order to remove a misapprehension which has evidently been created by some garbled report of the Prime Minister's statement, I wish to say that that statement had relation' to those men who were called up under the recent proclamation, and who were then in camp. It referred only to the Australian Imperial Force Camps, and not to the canips of the Australian Military Forces. 
The statement to which the honorable senator alludes was made many months ago to meet the convenience of farmers and others who follow seasonal occupations. Men were then informed that, if they chose to enlist, they could submit themselves to medical examination, and if they emerged from it satisfactorily they could fix a future date on which they would enter camp, thus affording them an opportunity to take off their crops in the interim. But they were distinctly given to understand that, when once they had entered the training camps, no further release from duty would be granted. 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether it is a fact that men called up under the proclamation which was recently issued, and who subsequently enlisted for service abroad, have been transported overseas in advance of others who were in camp before the issue of that proclamation? 
It is quite possible. The procedure is that each State, as far as possible, has to provide its own reinforcements. It is quite possible, therefore, that in some of the States men in the Australian Military Force camps have been despatched overseas before others who had enlisted in the Australian Imperial Force. 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether he will release for publication the number of votes recorded by Australian soldiers abroad in favour of " No " and " Yes " respectively on the occasion of the recent referendum ? 
No. 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether any money was paid out of the Secret Service Vote towards advocating conscription at the recent military service referendum ; and, if so, how much ? 
In moving - 
That the Senate do now adjourn, 
I wish to say that the business to-morrow will be the resumption of the debate on the Ministerial statement. Later, we shall deal with the Supply Bill, which is expected from another place. 
I should like to seize the opportunity, which was not presented at the normal time, of offering a few words of congratulation to the new Minister who is present to-day. It is customary for such congratulations to be offered when the Minister representing the Government announces the changes that have taken place, but for obvious reasons that course could not be followed to-day, because the Minister for Defence, after announcing those changes, was immediately obliged to proceed with his statement of the future war policy of the Government. Therefore, it was impossible for me to do then what I wish to do now on behalf of the whole Senate, namely, to offer congratulations to  Senator Lynch  on his elevation to Ministerial rank. However much we may differ in our opinions on political questions, every honorable senator has the best of personal good wishes for that honorable gentleman, and trusts that he will succeed in adding to his public laurels by his achievements in the Works Department. 
I have to thank  Senator Millen  and those who joined with him in the congratutions which he has extended to the new Ministers, for singling me out for a special share of them. I assure the honorable senator and the rest of the Senate that I shall endeavour to do my best to discharge the responsible duties that will fall to my lot as the first Minister for the new Department of Works and Railways. If my endeavours fail, it will not be for want of trying. Ihave been a fair trier in the past, and if on this occasion I fail it will not be for want of a conscientious effort to discharge my duties faithfully, fearlessly, and fully. 
I  find  myself in somewhat of a difficulty, and may be accused of an oversight in regard to the announcement made here to-day by  Senator Gardiner.  Such a statement in Che ordinary course of  eventB  should call for recognition and congratulation from the Leader of the Government in . this chamber, but I am not sufficient of a hypocrite to congratulate the honorable senator. 
Nor am I at the present moment sufficiently assured that the honorable senator is the Leader of the Opposition. 
The honorable 
Benator  must therefore, take my omission to be due to the causes I have stated. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Is it the intention of the Government to close some, or all, of the military training camps in Australia, and to send forward to England without training those persons who, in future, may enlist in the Australian Imperial Force, and, if so, are the Australians to he officered by Australian or British officers? 
It is not our intention to close any camp if we can get reinforcements to put into it. In regard  to the second part of the question, portion of the training will be done here, and the remainder in England. The reason for that course is that the training, especially in the special subjects, varies from week to week and from month to month, and it takes time for the changed orders to reach here. Therefore, it is better that the special training should be given in England. As regards the third part of the question, Australian officers are appointed wherever it is possible. 
Has the Minister for Defence now available for the Senate any information with regard to the travelling of Australian troops by railway in Egypt? 
I told the honorable senator yesterday that we had a report on the subject, and that I would get it and read it to the Senate. Some few weeks back we cabled to Egypt as follows :  - 
It has been represented that Australian soldiers required to travel third class with natives. Please cable information Minister practice respecting railway travelling. 
To that inquiry we received the following cabled reply :  - 
A third class coach, to carry seventy-eight, is entirely reserved for conveyance of military passengers on all the principal trains. On other lines individual soldiers or parties of less than seven may travel second class. Invalids on certificate medical officer travel second class. 
That cablegram was followed by a copy of the general orders, in which these conditions were contained, but as they appear to apply to troops when travelling on duty only, we have asked for definite information in regard to soldiers travelling while on leave. 
Is it the intention of the Government to proceed with the Industrial Commission to the United States, and, if so, when will they be in a position to announce the names of its members? 
The matter is receiving the consideration of the Government at the present time. 
In the event of an Australian soldier being transferred from the Australian Imperial Force overseas to the British Aviation Corps or other part of the British service, would the transfer necessarily involve the reduction of his pay as an Australian soldier to that of a British soldier ? 
I would like the question to be made a little clearer. Does the honorable senator mean the pay to which the soldier has been entitled up to the point of transfer, or the pay after transfer ? 
I would like the honorable senator to give notice of the question. I know that there are different arrangements in different parts of the war field. 
I shall be glad if the honorable senator will give notice of the question. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister lay on the table of the Senate at the earliest opportunity - 
The variation of the award given by  Mr. Justice  Higgins in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Court on the 29th September, 1916,  re  increase of salaries to members of the Australian Telegraph and Telephone Construction and Maintenance Union? 
The variation of the award given by  Mr. Justice  Higgins on the 22nd November, 1916,  re  acting positions, &amp;c, to members of the above-named organization ? 
Yes. 
Yes. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
What was the cost of the referendum on the Military Service Referendum Bill? 
Whatwas the total cost of the calling up and maintenance of the men in camp under the proclamation from the date of issue to the date of discharge? 
This information is being obtained, and will be supplied when ready.. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister lay on the table of the Senate a return showing in detail the cost of calling up men in Australia recently for home defence? 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Will he inform the Senate - 
At whose instance prosecutions for disturbing public meetings in Tasmania during the recent referendum campaign were instituted? 
Why only those alleged to have disturbed conscription meetings were prosecuted, whilst those disturbing anti-conscription meetings are in no case proceeded against? 
and (2) I am informed by the officers administering the Electoral Act that they are not aware that any official prosecutions have been instituted in Tasmania by any officer of the Electoral Administration. Inquiry is being made with a view to ascertaining whether action has been taken by the  chairman  of any meeting, the police, or any other authority. 
Before calling upon the next question, I want to direct attention to what I have repeatedly said in the Senate with regard to questions, viz., that they must be asked only for the purpose of obtaining information, and must not contain any statement or comments. This matter was brought under my notice last night. I did not press the objection, but I want the Senate to understand that this must not be taken as a precedent, and that questions in a form contravening my ruling must not be asked in the Senate. 
Is the Minister aware that citizens are being prosecuted in Tasmania for interrupting public meetings, and that where they are conscriptionists cases are being dismissed, while anti-conscriptionists are being heavily fined? 
Is the Minister aware that two women have been prosecuted and fined in Launceston who have five and three sons respectively at the front fighting for the Empire? 
Will the Minister have inquiries made into these cases with a view to asking that the lines be remitted? 
I am not aware of any official prosecutions in Tasmania. Inquiries are being made. 
For what period of time has the site of the Western Junction Conscript Camp, Tasmania, been leased by the military authorities? 
Will the Minister procure and lay on the table of the Library a copy of the lease? 
and (2) The site of the Western Junction Camp has not been leased. Authority has been given under section 69 of the Defence Act  1903-1915 for the use of the area for military purposes. See  Gazette  No. 160 of 9th November, 1916. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
How many persons were enrolled or entitled to vote, and how many votes were recorded at each of the following places, at the referendum, on the 28th October, 1910: - 
The Federal Territory; 
Papua; 
Norfolk Island; 
The Northern Territory? 
How many persons volunteered for the A.I.F. during the month of October, 1916? 
How many were accepted? 
What are the total effective enlistments inthe A.I.F. for the present month up to date? 
What are the total casualties in the A.I.F. from the commencement of the war to 31st October, 1916? 
The information is not available. 
The number enlisted in the A.I.F during the month of October, 1916, was 11,522. 
The following are the latest figures available at Head-quarters in regard to the enlistments during the present month :  - 1st Military District, 773 to 24th November. 2nd Military District, 1,347 to 18th November. 3rd Military District, 451 to 18th November. 4th Military District, 85 to 18th November. 5th Military District, *404 to 20th November. 6th Military District, 377 to 23rd November. 
Total, 3,437. 
* Does not include enlistments during period  7th to 13th November, figures for this period not having been notified to Head-quarters. 
5. 

<graphic href="080332191611302_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister for Works,  upon notice - 
Has the Minister for Works read the report of Judge Eagleson, who was appointed a Royal Commission to inquire into charges made by D. L. Gilchrist concerning  the  construction of the western section of  the  line between Port Augusta and Kalgoorlie? 
Has he noted paragraph No. 5 on page 58 of that report, in which it is stated that Dudley Lynton Gilchrist " repeatedly committed wilful and corrupt perjury of a very flagrant character " ? 
Does  the  Government purpose taking such action as will afford  Mr. Gilchrist  an opportunity of clearing himself from such charges in  a  Court of  law ? 
The  answer  is - 
to (3) The  report  of  the  Commissioner is under  reference  to  the  Attorney-General's Department  for  opinion as to  whether the  evi  dence  would justify  the  institution of proceedings  for  perjury. I will endeavour to expedite  the matter, but that  Department  has lately been  nearly overwhelmed with work. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is it  a  fact  that the  Australian troops  now  serving in Egypt  are  provided with what is termed " Imperial rations " ? 
Will the Minister inform the Senate what is the difference between the " Imperial " and the "Australian" scale of rations? 
Inquiries willbe made, and the information will be furnished when available. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Did the Prime Minister issue a manifesto to the soldiers at the front, urging them to vote "Yes" in the recent referendum? 
Did General Birdwood do likewise? 
Did the Government prevent other people from issuing a manifesto to the soldiers at the front, urging them to vote "No"? 
Yes. 
Unable to  say. 
No. 
Whether  the  Postmaster-General  has  made inquiries respecting  the  complaint as to  the  delay in  the  delivery of cables to soldiers of the A.I.F. in England  and  France? 
The answer is - 
Information furnished to  the  PostmasterGeneral  shows that many messages addressed  to soldiers  have  remained undelivered because  the  senders  have not  observed  the  instructions given to  them  regarding  the proper  method of address. Notification  was  given in  the press  as long  ago  as July  last that,  as private  telegrams for  soldiers  were not  permitted to  be telegraphed to France, they should be addressed care of " Stralis," London, arrangements having been made for forwarding such telegrams by post direct to the addressees in the trenches or elsewhere. The Commandant, A.I.F. Head-quarters, London, having reported that relatives sending messages to soldiers had neglected to use the address referred to, with the result that such messages had remained undelivered, notification has again been given in the matter. 
asked the Min ister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Government have decided to negotiate the sale to the Imperial Government of wool and skins throughout the Commonwealth? 
If so, what is the basis of sale? 
The Government is not yet in a position to make a definite announcement of the details of the proposal, which is now being considered. As soon as possible full information will be given. 
asked the Min ister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that during the recent visit of the Prime Minister to Britain he arranged with a British firm for the manufacture of all electric cables required by the Postal Department for a period of ten years? 
No. 
There is no need for any discussion on the point of order. I wish to point out to  Senator Millen  and other honorable senators that the motion submitted is merely for leave to introduce a Bill. Neither  Senator Millen  nor any other honorable senator can have any knowledge of what is contained in the Bill until it is introduced. We cannot say whether it is identical with a previous Bill dealt with by the Senate. I am sure that I cannot do so. That being so, I think  Senator Gardiner  must have the right to put to the Senate his motion for leave to introduce the Bill. No one can say whether the Bill proposed to be introduced will be in order or out of order until it has been introduced and we can see what' it contains. I therefore rule that  Senator Gardiner  is in order in submitting the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Senate listened yesterday with, I have no doubt, considerable interest to a statement delivered by the Minister for Defence, but if honorable senators will recall that statement, they must be struck, as Iwas, by the many omissions from it. It informed us certainly of important Ministerial changes, but it gave us no information, for instance, as to the causes which had rendered those changes necessary. I submit that the Senate was entitled to some little information on that point. The question as to who are to occupy positions as advisers of  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral is a matter of concern, not merely to the individuals themselves or  His Excellency,  but to this Senate as a co-ordinate branch of Parliament. If  Senator Pearce  will look up the precedents, he will findI am correct in stating that it is not unusual to inform Parliament of the reasons for such drastic changes. Another omission from the statement was any reference to the referendum. Honorable senators will know that that was the big outstanding question confronting us when the Senate last met. I was surprised at the absence of any reference to it other than that relating to the new recruiting scheme. There was a third omission to which I wish to direct attention. This is a new Ministry. It has only just taken office, and I think the Senate has a right to look for a little fuller explanation of the Ministerial policy than is contained in the statement. That statement is full enough in regard to recruiting, but it is quite silent upon one or two matters in respect of which we require information at the earliest possible moment. For instance, it set out the determination of the Government to proceed with all energy with the prosecution of the war; but it did not say whether it was intended to introduce for the balance of the year any other than war legislation. It states that all other things are to be subordinated to the necessity for prosecuting the war to a successful issue; but it contains no intimation as to whether the Government intend to proceed with other than war legislation. 1 direct attention to this matter, because I am under the impression - in view of a statement which was made elsewhere - that these omissions are accidental, and not intentional. I draw the attention of the Minister for Defence to them, in the hope that, if they are accidental, he will, at the earliest moment; make them good. There was another very serious omission from the statement. Nobody can shut his eyes to the fact that to-day Australia is confronted with a serious industrial problem, and with the possibility of still more serious consequences developing from it. We might, therefore, have expected some intimation of the attitude of the Government towards this outstanding difficulty. I repeat that I assume these omissions are accidental, and that the Minister will, as early as possible, place the Senate in possession of the desired information. 
In regard to the Ministerial changes which have taken place, I wish to say a few words. Apparently, the first thing to break up the late Ministry was the resignation of  Mr. Higgs  and Senators Gardiner and Russell. I wish to say at once that, so far as I know the circumstances which resulted in their resignations, those gentlemen were not only justified in what they did, but that no other course was open to them. Of course, my only source of information is the daily press, and if I am incorrect in what I am about to say, it is because those who are in possession of more accurate information have not made it available to me. According to my information, it is the practice of Departments to send direct for Executive approval ordinary routine regulations - matters that are, perhaps, complementary to a policy that has already been approved - and for such regulations to be treated largely as formal. But whenever a regulation involves a question of policy, as this particular regulation undoubtedly did, it is necessary that it should first be submitted for Cabinet consideration and decision. According to the press reports, this was not done. A very important regulation, involving a matter of policy, went, not to the Cabinet for consideration, but to the Executive Council - a body, an ordinary function of which is to simply note a formal approval on the papers submitted to it. At that Executive Council meeting this particular regulation was, apparently, turned down, the Ministers present being  Mr. Higgs  and  Mr. Jensen,  and Senators Gardiner and Russell. The press states that these gentlemen unanimously rejected it. 
I do not know. I am dealing with the matter only on the facts supplied to me by the press. 
That is not my concern. If the statement is incorrect, it is within the competency of some persons within this chamber to correct me. 
I shall quote Scripture to these Christians if they continue in this way. I wish now to proceed with my recital of what I believe to be the facts of the case. After the Executive Council had refused to approve of the regulation, the Prime Minister - not convening the same members of his Ministry - called an Executive Council meeting, consisting of himself,  Mr. Webster,  and  Mr. Jensen,  the last-named being the only one of the four who had originally turned it down. At that meeting this regulation was approved. Assuming, as I have a right to do, that the fact's are as stated, there was only one course open to those Executive Councillors who had disapproved of it in the first instance. There was only one course open to a man with any self-respect, namely, to resign from the captaincy of a chief who treated him with such scant consideration. It seems to me that the action taken by the Prime Minister was so extraordinary, so arbitrary, and so absolutely unreasonable, that if those Ministers who dissented from the regulation had remained in the Government they must have done so at the forfeiture, not only of their own selfrespect, but that of the community at large. Apart from the method pursued to get it adopted, the regulation itself was sufficient to have justified the resignations of Ministers. 
And I am expressing my opinion. My honorable friend and I belong to a party which does not machine us. I disagree altogether with that regulation. Seeing that it involved a matter of vital public policy, it had no right to be put through the Executive Council in that way. Let there be no mistake about it - it was put through, and it was acted upon. It was only withdrawn, not because of any change of policy on the part of the Government, but because of the fear of the consequences that might follow from giving effect to it. 
I am dealing with this regulation, and not with section 9. I am sorry that  Senator Russell  has left the chamber, because I wish to say a few words personal to himself. Aa I remarked just now, I can only approve of the action of those Ministers who resigned from the late Government as a protest against the regulation, and, therefore, it is incomprehensible to me that one of them -  Senator Russell  - is still seated on the Treasury bench. I submit to him that out of regard for his own public standing and reputation he owes some explanation to the people. If lie does not give it he must not be surprised if people think lingeringly of the story of the Vicar of Bray. 
I am dealing now with the regulation, and aa  Senator Russell  is now present I will repeat exactly what I said. 
Whether it was withdrawn or not it was acted on. It was put through irregularly in a way which  compelled  certain Ministers to 'resign. Seeing that  Senator Russell  took a course of action, for which I commend him, in resigning as a protest either against the regulation or the method of putting it through - that is to say against the action of his chief - I am surprised that he still finds a place on the Ministerial bench. I now suggest to him that out of regard for hia public standing, position, and reputation," he should take the country into his confidence and explain how, having resigned on that ground, he still finds it compatible with that resignation to rejoin his old chief. 
I am merely stating the case as I think it appears to everybody outside the Senate - that it is extraordinary that a gentleman who resigned because of the action taken then should have rejoined the Government a week or two afterwards. I suggest to him now, in all friendliness, that he should put before the people the explanation as to what has enabled him to do this. I am certain that if he presents a reasonable explanation to the people they will judge him much more kindly than they are disposed to do at the present moment. 
My honorable friend is a judge of his opportunities. I say nothing about that. I merely suggest that at the earliest opportunity he should take the public into his confidence on the question. 
The statement made by the Minister, and a glance round the chamber, remind us that many changes have taken place, all of them interesting, some of them possibly of permanent ' importance, but none of them without some bearing upon the inter-relation of parties within the Parliament and in the country, and what is very much more important, upon those many matters of grave and urgent public concern now demanding consideration. But in all these changes there is one thing which has not changed, and that is the attitude of the- Opposition in its unswerving determination to subordinate every thing to a successful prosecution of the war. The Opposition maintains with every confidence that it has so acted in the past. It intends similarly and equally to so act in the future. It' is not so greatly concerned with the domestic disturbances which have disrupted the one-time dominant majority in this Chamber, and it is not particularly concerned as to the  personnel  of the Ministry, except so far as these matters may have an influence upon the one great outstanding and paramount question - the national safety. There is to-day, more than ever, an imperative call for the highest patriotism, and the Opposition believes that it will best respond to that call by concerning itself more with the things that have to be done than with the men who may have to do them. For two years it has adhered to that policy. It will continue to do so, asking only that within the limits imposed by the referendum, the war shall be prosecuted with the utmost energy and determination. While assisting the Government in this connexion, it will retain its separate political identity, reserving to itself the right in the public interest to criticise to the fullest extent and decide on its merits each measure submitted to this Chamber, I hope that statement will make quite clear to the Senate and to the electors exactly where the Opposition stands. 
As one of those who voted and worked to the best of his ability to secure an affirmative result, I am  bitterly  disappointed with the verdict recorded by the country at the referendum. But although I regret that decision, I say without equivocation, that it must stand; it must not, either in the -letter or the spirit, be tam.pared with in any -way until the people themselves take the responsibility of undoing it. It is worth while considering what the verdict meant. 
I did not so much mean the causes which contributed to that decision as the interpretation which is being placed on it to-day by public journals, and sometimes by public men. Before the vote was taken many of the . conscriptionist journals declared that a negative vote would mean this, that, or the other. They are attempting now' to prove that it does not mean anything of the kind. They said before that a negative vote was to be accepted as a declaration that Australia had drawn out of the war. They say now that it is only a decision as to the methods by which we are to continue to prosecute it. More harm has been done, with regard both to the referendum and the war, by refusing to face the issue, and an apparently shuddering disinclination to tell the simple truth to the public, than by anything else. This is an enlightened community, and we shall do no harm by telling it the plain .truth. We have done harm enough by withholding the truth from it. Those who proclaimed before the poll was taken what the effect of the verdict would be, and are now attempting to misconstrue that verdict, are either acting from mistaken motives or are wilfully trying to withhold from the people the full effect of the vote. When I declared on the platform that a negative vote would mean that Australia was hoisting the signal that she was tired of the war and had had enough, I meant it, and I so accept that vote to-day. I amnot going to turn round now and say to the people whom I told that by a negative vote Australia would pull out of the war, " Oh, I did not mean it.- I waasimply trying to fool you out of your voteby my statement." I did mean it, and, unpleasant though' it may be, I accept that verdict as an intimation from Australia that she has done all that she is* prepared to do in the matter of finding recruits, except so far as there may still be found men willing to volunteer for that service. It is unpleasant to look at thematter in that way, but it is of no use for us to shut our eyes to a thing because it is unpleasant. Passing from that aspect of the case, I think that we are doing an injustice to our cause, to ourselves, and to the Empire, if we attempt in any way to belittle or tone down the serious consequences of the verdict given on the 28th of last month. I want now to deal with one or two of the causes which brought about that verdict, and I will not do so with any idle desire to indulge in recriminations. I would be perfectly content if the whole thing could' be regarded as dead and buried. But the matters to which I desire to direct attention are those which are still current, and are likely to continue to damage our  efforts  to obtain men. If we were finished with the recruiting, I would say nothing about them, but they are operating to-day, in my opinion, as anti-recruiting influences, and therefore I refer to them. The first one of them is that with painful optimism, or stupidity, ever since this war started, there has been a great tendency on the part of our public journals, and many of our public men, to sound the stupid cry of, " We are bound to win." Everywhere it has been insisted,  ' It may be a little longer than we expect, but, after all, we are bound to win." The result of that cry was to&gt; convey to the masses, of the people an impression that all was going well, that there was no serious danger confronting us, and in consequence people were not disposed to turn upside down a whole system with which they were familiar to meet a danger which they were led to believe was passing away. I will give a concrete instance of the effect of that cry. A little time  before  the referendum vote was taken, there was at Liverpool a unit. members of which had obtained final leave. I happened to know many of the lads, and when I met some of them in Sydney, they told me that a majorityin the unit was voting "N o. " I asked why, and they gave me what to my mind was the most pointed and effective reason I had heard for a negative vote. One of the lads said, and the others; endorsed his statement, "Our leaders here, our newspapers here, English generals, French generals, the statesmen in Allied countries, in fact, everybody tells us that we are winning and are bound to win. Under these circumstances we are not prepared to take the risk of introducing conscription here; but, if the Empire were in danger we would risk conscription and everything else." That is bringing home in one definite case the danger which has arisen from the continual preaching of this cry. 
I do not know, and I am not allowed to know, the vote. 
I have not, as my imagination is not so lively as my honorable friend's. We are, or pretend to be, all in favour of doing the best we can under the voluntary system. I say that we retarded the effort to get volunteers by our failure in the past, at any rate, to bring home to the people of the country the fact that we are standing face to face with a tremendous danger. For twenty months this cry of " We are bound to win" was preached throughout the country. It was only on the eve of the referendum, when the Prime Minister had returned to Australia, that any effort was made to present the real seriousness of the position to the electors. Is it surprising then that they assumed that this was an attempt to make the prospect look gloomier than it was in order to compel them, out of their loyalty, to vote in an affirmative way? Side by side with that was the other idea, equally fatal, that in this country we are fighting not so much for our national existence as to help the Empire. We here have heard that fallacy exposed, but it is a strange thing that it has become so much a habit with many of us that even in the statement read yesterday by the 
Minister for Defence this aspect of the case is put forward - 
The policy of the Government in regard to the war will be to prosecute it with all the energy necessary to give effect to the desire of the people of Australia" to render the utmost assistance to the Mother Country and her Allies. 
That is a wrong and false note to sound. The real position is that we are asked today to fight for our own national existence. 
I remember  Senator Pearce  joining with me here in denouncing that presentation of the case, but it has become so much a habit that, . almost inadvertently, we use that form of words. It has created the impression in many places that what we are doing to-day is not fighting for Australia, but in some way or other showing our good will towards the Mother Country, our belief in the ideals and the civilization for which we stand by helping her. We should bring home to our people two things, and this we have failed to do yet. First, instead of running round and saying, " We are bound to win," we should bring home to them . what I believe to be a simple truth, and" that is that we are bound to fail unless we make a further effort. If we could bring home to the people that what we are doing is not merely helping the Mother Country, but in addition to that fighting for our own national existence, we should, I believe, obtain an affirmative instead of a negative vote. I mention that as one of the causes which led to the defeat of the referendum, in the hope that in future there will be an attempt to present to the people a truer picture of the danger which confronts us. A second matter which contributed largely towards influencing votes at the referendum, and a matter which is still operating, is the exercise by the Government of its powers of censorship. When the referendum campaign was started, we had an assurance from the Prime Minister that we were to have a free press and a free platform. I remind the Minister for Defence that it is not always the actual enactment or regulation which itself is the evil as the impression it creates. When the Government commenced to break away from the assurance it had given to this country, and attempted to use the censorship for political rather than military reasons, it is not surprising' that the people became suspicious, even where the Government's action was beyond suspicion. I will give a case in point. I could give at least half-a-dozen instances where the censorship was used in a way which, in my judgment, was a breach of the Prime Minister's promise, and certainly had a very serious political' effect on the minds of the electors, then about to vote on the proposal. But I will give only one case. Honorable senators will recollect that we had placed on the table of the Senate the instructions given with regard to the conduct of the censorship in the referendum campaign. I have not a copy of the paper here, but it will be remembered that it prohibited the publication of anything in the press which would, for instance, be offensive to the Allies. Honorable senators will probably recollect that the paper contained four prohibitions, but not one of those prohibitions had any reference to political matters. Yet, in the midst of the campaign, the Government issued through the censorship an instruction to the press not to publish anything having reference to 'the arrival of Maltese here. That instruction was given, and a more stupid or more suicidal instruction could not be imagined. 1 came across the instruction when I was addressing a series of country meetings. It was presented to me at a meeting by a member of "the audience, who had so little faith in me that, having stated that he would not part with a copy of the instruction for a pound, refused to hand the paper over unless he was allowed to keep a grip on one corner of it, so much did he value' the instruction as an aid to  the anti-conscription cause. On the paper was an instruction from  Colonel Nicholson,  Chief Censor in Sydney, prohibiting any reference to the arrival of Maltese. That instruction was circulated not by tens, but by tens of thousands, throughout New South Wales, and any man reading the instruction would say, " Clearly, Maltese are arriving." In the popular imagination, it was not 200 Maltese that were arriving, but, at The time this document was circulated, 200,000 at least were being brought here, and brought here, in the mind of the  anti-conscriptionists, by the direct connivance of the Prime Minister. No more foolish action, than that could have been taken. It was, first of all, a breach of the Prime Minister's promise; it did not affect the Allies; it was not a war measure; it was purely political ; but it was so stupid in its character that it passed beyond the region of an error, and became a crime. Its effect on the voting in my State it is impossible to calculate. That instruction was not issued on the responsibility of the Censor himself ; it was issued, on a direction from Melbourne. Not only was .it foolish in regard, to the Maltese question, but it has created a belief to-day that the Government is using the censorship Tor political purposes, and it is for that reason that I refer to the matter. I want the Government to make the censorship more in conformity with the democratic ideas of this country. I appeal to the Government to try to counteract the " impression which has got abroad that the censorship is being used to withhold from the people news which they ought to have, and that an attempt is being made to utilize the censorship for political, and not military, reasons. 
Your words to-day will be used by those who want the censorship for another purpose. 
You do not want a censorship which is going to allow the other stuff through? 
Referring now to the new recruiting scheme. It may be, as has been suggested that, for want of a better proposal, the Government have brought this forward. 
There are no " hear.hears " from the other side to that statement. 
But honorable senators over there say they can get recruits under the voluntary system. The Ministerial statement is quite clear. 
We say that we think we cannot get the reinforcements by this scheme; but there is the machinery, and we look to members of Parliament to help in putting it into operation. 
It seems hopeless- 
The scheme itself appears to be recommended in a spirit of hopelessness - to expect that we can by the voluntary enlistment raise 16,500 men per month; but we propose to do the utmost that voluntary enlistment ls capable of. 
It may be, as  Senator Lynch  has suggested, that the only thing to do at present is to go ahead with this proposal ; but I do say it is a tremendous responsibility to allow the people to think for a moment that it will meet the difficulty. 

 Senator-- Pearce. - We say distinctly that we do not think so, but honorable senators on the other side have said they can make it a success. 
We said that the voluntary system was sufficient for the number of men Australia had arranged to send away. 
It was that, under the voluntary system, Australia had sent away too many men to enable the country to keep up the actual reinforcements. 
The honorable senator says that the people' in England are  starving now. How are they to feed more men if we send them there? 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Gardiner)  adjourned. 
In view: of the inability of  Senator Gardiner  to go on with the Bills he has received permission to introduce, though I am quite prepared to give him the opportunity to do so, I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Is the Minister representing the Attorney-General aware that yesterday the variation of the award given to the Australian Telephone and T elegraph Construction and Maintenance Union, dated the 22nd November, was not laid on the table of the Senate? Will he endeavour to have it laid on the table as soon as possible? 
I have had the matter looked into since yesterday, and this is the reply which I have received - 
There were two variations of awards laid upon the table  of  the Senate yesterday; one concerning the Australian Telegraph and Telephone Construction and Maintenance Union, and the other dealing with the Postal Electricians Association, both of the 29th September last.  Senator Needham  is  concerned about the tabling of a further variation of the award dealing with the first-mentioned union, and given on the 22nd November last. This variation was signed by the Judge yesterday afternoon, and the papers immediately forwarded to the Attorney-General for the necessary opinion  as  to the conformity of the variation with law. The opinion is now being prepared. The Act allows fourteen days from the date of the receipt by him of the award or variation for the Prime Minister  to  table same. As this period only commenced  to  run from  today, it  will be seen that there  is at  present no cause for complaint as  to  delay on the part  of  the Prime Minister tabling the variation in question. 
Through you, sir, I wish to ask the Leader of the Liberal party in the Senate a question. In view of the fact that yesterday he, referring to certain regulations, made the following statement; - 
Let there bo no mistake. The regulation was put through and was acted upon. It was only withdrawn for fear of the consequences.  and in view of the further fact that the Prime Minister in another place expressly denied that such was done, in these words - . 
What I said in the press on 28th October was true. ' No such regulations were issued, and no such regulations of any kind that have any resemblance to those which  Mr .  Tudor referred to were issued. does the honorable senator accept the denial of the Prime Minister, and- withdraw the statement which he made here yesterday? 
Under the Standing Orders an honorable senator is not entitled to ask a question of another private member of the Senate unless with regard to some business which the latter has on the notice-paper or before the Senate. Therefore, it rests entirely with  Senator Millen  whether he will reply to the question or not, but I wish to point out to  Senator O'Keefe  that he is not entitled,, as a matter of right, to ask a question of a private senator. 
If I am free, sir, to answer the question, I prefer to do it rather than that there should be any belief in this Chamber that-I have made a statement recklessly, or one which I am not prepared to stand by. I repeat now the statement which I made yesterday, but I direct attention to the fact that the Prime Minister's words were, ' ' the regulation was not issued." By that phrase - and I accept  Mr. Hughes'  statement - the regulation was not issued. But my statement was that it was passed at a meeting of the Executive Council, and that instructions were issued to the electoral officers to carry it out. Whilst I  stand, as I stated yesterday, prepared to support the Government in its -war policy, I am under no obligation, either to the Government or to my honorable friends  on  this side, to allow my veracity to be impugned in the way in which it may be by this question. 
Prior to the last adjournment of the Senate, I asked the Minister for Defence whether the Government would take sole control of the different patriotic funds throughout Australia, or act jointly with the State Governments; Has he any further information to give in regard to that question ? 
The late Government was still in communication with the State Governments; the new Government has not considered the matter yet. 
With regard to the gap of 140 miles in the transcontinental railway, will the Minister for Works do all that is possible to see that any shortage of rails is supplied, so as to prevent the dismissal of men at either end of the line f 
So far as my inquiries have led me to an understanding of the position, there were rails enough for the works up to the 16th December, when the Christmas holidays would begin; but, owing to the coal strike, there, was a serious apprehension as to whether the work could be carried on. Now that the coal strike is, happily, overcome, I am in hopes of a continuity of supplies being maintained for the railway, but I am not certain that there will not be a .spell between the exhaustion of the present supplies and the provision of new supples. I am not at all sure that there will not be an idle time at both ends of therailway on account of the coal strike. 
I cannot say positively whether it will necessitate the removal of gangs of men from the railhead, but it may. If no material is coming to hand, the gangs of men may be employed .more profitably elsewhere, or they may have to remain idle. 
Has the Government considered the desirability, or even, the necessity, of stopping the construction of works like the Federal Capital City and the Western Australian railway, seeing that we have a war in hand, and that money is very scarce? 
The policy of theGovernment in regard to all these public works will be announced when the financial statement is brought before theHouse. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Respecting the men who have been, selected,, and have proceeded to England to loam munition making on behalf of the Commonwealth, is it the intention of the Government to recoup these men their oat-of-pocket expenses, incurred in attending .the officials (sometimes travelling long distances) who were authorized to make the selections I 
The issue of railway warrants to cover railway journeysof these men to the capital cities for purposes of interview by selection committees was authorized, but no other expenses, prior to appointment can be allowed. 
asked' the Minister representing the-. Minister for Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
What length of time was occupied by the Electoral Department in completing the arrangements' which enabled the men at the'-' front to record their votes in connexion with the recent referendum? 
The answer is - 
The regulations enabling members of the Overseas Forces to vote were passed on the  28th September, 1916. Preliminary arrangements for the voting were made prior to the . passing of the regulations. Voting commenced after the issue of the regulations, and continued up to, and inclusive of, polling day. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
Was the High Commissioner for Australia in charge of the scrutiny of the votes of the oversea soldiers on the recent referendum, and, if not, who had charge of the scrutiny? 
Was the result of such vote known in Australia prior to the 28th October, and, if not, "when was such result known here? 
The Commonwealth Returning Officer (Brigadier-General R. McC. Anderson), assisted by a  Deputy  Returning Officer  (Mr. C. E. A. Miller),  had charge of the voting arrangements and scrutiny. 
No. The Chief Electoral Officer was advised by the Returning Officer at intervals  after the close of the poll. 
Arising out of the reply, may I ask the Minister if he will inform the Senate whether the substance of the regulations governing the taking of that vote, and referred to in a previous question, were communicated to the authorities conducting the scrutiny in London; and, if so, by what means? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
In fixing the prices of the Australian wool clip to be taken over by the Commonwealth Government, will the Government take into cognisance the prices received by those who have shipped or sold their wool previously, in order that 'one section of the growers shall not have a decided advantage over the great body of wool producers ? 
The answer is - 
Due consideration will be given to every phase of this most important matter, and it is expected that full information will be available shortly. 
asked the Minister for Works,  upon notice - 
What has been the total cost to date of the present inquiry into affairs at Canberra? 
What is the cost of each sitting of the 
Commission? 
What is the name of the Commissioner, and what is his fee per day? 
How many others, if any, are paid, and what is the amount paid to each per day? 
When is it expected that the work of the 
Commission will be completed? 
The answers are - 1 to 5. The information sought would embrace many items, such as cost of printing, travelling of officers concerned, and of witnesses, fees paid to expert witnesses, which are not immediately available. 1 will endeavour to obtain the particulars and lay them upon the table of the Senate next week. 
I join with  Senator Millen  in the opinion that the paper submitted to the Senate is more remarkable for what has been left out of it than for what it, contains. I listened to  Senator Millen's  speech yesterday with a great deal more pleasure than I should have felt had I been occupying on the other side the position now occupied by  Senator Lynch.  But, while I agree with  Senator Millen  that this Parliament is the place where the public should be enabled to get information of all that Governments are doing, and that if properly questioned  Senator Pearce  will give us the advantage of all the information that  Senator Millen  asked for, I still claim that, because  Senator Millen  can cleverly question the Leader of the Government, he has no right to shirk his responsibility as the Leader of the Liberal party in this chamber; and, just as  Senator Pearce  can be properly brought to book for not giving full information to Parliament and the people about happenings during the suspension of the sittings of Parliament, so  Senator Millen  has the right, and the people will expect him, , to tell Parliament and them why his party are supporting the present Government. 
The people are entitled to knowwhether he is, and why. Has there been an honorable understanding between the Right Hon. Joseph Cook and the Right Hon. William Morris Hughes? 
Has there teen an honorable understanding between those parties? What is the basis of that understanding ? Is it that the Government shall barter for the support of the Liberal party those measures of taxation that the last Government intended to introduce? When  Senator Millen  is castigating the Leader of the Government for not giving the public certain information and not taking them into the confidence of the Government, why does he not take the public into his own confidence, and let them know clearly and definitely that there is no truth in the persistent rumours that for weeks there nas been negotiation between the two parties as to the basis of an agreement that would enable the Government to conduct the business of the country without even a quorum in either House, to say nothing of a majority  1 
The arrangement is fair and honorable. I have the voluntary support, without counting  Senator Millen  or his party, of a majority of the members of the Senate having the confidence of a majority of the people. That also was the only arrangement that existed between  Senator Millen  and the Government while I was a member of it, so far as I was aware.- 
Honorable senators may shut their eyes to the constitutional position that, at that period, irrespective of  Senator Millen  or his supporters, the Government were fresh from the country with a majority, who had the confidence and support of the country, behind them. The position is now materially altered. The Government holding the Ministerial bench as the constitutional advisers of  His  Majesty's representative, not only have lost the confidence of the country, but have never shown that they have the confidence of this or the other House. The votes may show that they have. I am not claiming that the Government have the support of  Senator Millen  and his party. All I say is that the public, and Hia Majesty's representative, are entitled io know whether, they have it. If they  lute  the honorable support of the Liberal party; if that party say, " Because ibis is war time, we shall put our fortunes behind the Government, and sink or  swim  with them, and take the responsibility of their acts," the position is a perfectly fair and legitimate one. 
The clearness may be quite abundant, and the fact may be apparent to every one but me. This may be due to my dullness, but I a]. still going to put to the country the position that, so far as parliamentary procedure is concerned, no Government have a right to hold office for twenty-four hours that does not possess, in addition to a majority in Parliament, the confidence and support of the people. The very essence of parliamentary government predicates support, not only here, but in the country. 
I am addressing the Senate as the Leader of the Australian Labour party, and the division that we shall call for will indicate what the support of that big party is in the country. 
I emphasize it, and want to " make no bones " about it. I say, without hesitation, that, so far as the different parties in this House are concerned, on the bench behind me  sit  the Leader of the Liberal party and his followers. Behind me, also-, sit the Labour party and its followers, and opposite me, on the Ministerial benches, sits a remnant that broke Away from the Labour party. 
I understand they now call" themselves the National Labour party. 
Worn threadbare by many fine old parties. 
I do not want this debate to develop into personalities. When the honorable senator and I were in office together, such a friendship sprang up between us that I hope it will continue. 
While I am leading; the party there will be no secret understanding. Nothing will be done that will not bear the closest scrutiny of the whole of the people.  Senator Russell  left our party and our room without a harsh or unkind word being used against him. 
I am leading the section which is represented here. 
I am not dealing with outside organizations, nor am I discussing this matter from an individual stand-point.  Senator Millen  yesterday referred to the omissions of the Leader of the Government here. He said he had not carried out the proper functions of a leader, because he had not given the Senate full information as to the happenings in the Government during the period of adjournment.  Senator Millen  is leading the party that the public are inclined to think are supporting that remnant of a party sitting on the Ministerial benches, -a remnant which has a quorum neither in this House nor the other, a remnant which has not enough support, if deserted by the other parties which claim to be independent, to conduct the business of Parliament for ten minutes in either Chamber. Their position is such that, if they were not supported by any other party, no vote of censure would be needed to remove them. 
Will the Government Whip state that, without the support of the Liberal party, he has a majority in this chamber? 
The Government are attempting to conduct the affairs of the country without being able, of themselves, to form a quorum in either House. 
My party have no desire at this moment to test strength "by any such method. My business now is to follow up  Senator Millen's  line of argument. If the fullest information at all times should be given to the public on public happenings, surely the leader of a party which stands before the people as having been negotiating for weeks for a basis on which they could support the present Government- 
I am glad to hear that statement. 
I am so astounded by the same statement coming from both sides that I begin to think that either I am more dense than I imagine myself to be, or that there is working here the corrupting ' influence of the Leader of the Government, who not only lies, but lies deliberately in reference to regulations- 
Order! The honorable senator must withdraw that statement. 
The honorable " senator is not entitled to say, under any excuse whatever, that the Leader of the Government is lying. Such a statement is distinctly unparliamentary, contrary to the Standing Orders, and likely to lead to disorder. I therefore ask him to withdraw it. 
The honorable senator must not make a statement reflecting upon a member of this Chamber or of another place, because the Standing Orders are equally emphatic in regard to both. The honorable senator must therefore withdraw the statement. 
I never heard any Leader of the Opposition before expressso much concern about the Government not having a majority. 
It shows that the position with regard to shipping is desperate. 
In what year ? 
The blockade existed before that date. 
Seven other vessels were torpedoed, but managed to reach port. In the period covered by these figures 183 British vessels were sunk, and, in addition to these, 144 British shipping vessels of smaller tonnage were sunk. As an average, the number of steamers, arriving and sailing, was each week 1,400, and the losses were altogether insignificant. 
Do the honorable senator's figures include fishing craft? 
To what class of vessels do the honorable senator's figures apply ?  
The figures for the wooden vessels show that many of them must have been very small. 
In addition to the 183 British vessels referred to by the honorable senator as being sunk there were over 100 small vessels that were not included in that figure. 
 They are used for trade as well as for the transportation of troops. The transportation of troops does not affect the matter. 
We might be told that we did not know our own business. 
The last months. 
Leader of the Labour Government, having the confidence of the people' of this country, on the 26th November, 1915, offered the Imperial Government an additional unit of 50,000 men. Volunteering was then at a very low ebb. But immediately there was a response from one end of the country to the other, with the result that in December the enlistments numbered 9,307; in January of this year, 22,6S8; in February, 18,665; in March, 15,862; in April, 9,908; and in May, 10,656. Is .it any wonder that after that magnificent effort there was a decline in recruiting during the months of June and July? 
Do not fall into the same error as  Mr. '  Tudor did in regard to those figures. They do not include casualties in which the wounded men have afterwards returned to the front. 
Because it was a success last year it does not follow that it is a success now. The casualties today are 16,500 a month, and how are we to supply that number of reinforcements ? 
 It is the statement of the Imperial Army Council. 
 The honorable senator refuses to accept the statement of the Imperial Army Council? 
 The honorable senator knows that in one month a whole division was wiped out. 
 One division. 
 Later, another division, but at the outset only one division. 
 Two divisions. 
 How many a month do you say are wanted now? 
 Why cannot you answer ? 
 Now that we have five divisions, how many a month do we want? 
 Are you aware that taking your own estimate of 5 per cent, we are not even getting that number, that is, when you allow for the wastage from the camps ? 
 You have not got 5,000 this month. 
You were not there when I came back. 
I think it was a little longer; I will look up that point. 
That is not correct. 
And you know that it is not correct. 
You know that the regulation was prepared, if a regulation was prepared at all, after I had left for Western Australia. And you know that there was no such regulation in preparation when I left for that State. 
I am not saying that. 
Yes, I will, if you do. 
At the Executive Council. 
That is the oath. 
You were to be the judge of what was dishonorable conduct ? 
Are you a person to whom the Proclamation of 29th September, 191fi, calling upon single men under thirty-five to present themselves for enlistment, applies, and have you presented yourself for enlistment accordingly or been exempted f 
It was proposed, if any intending voter answered in the negative, or if the presiding officer had reason to believe that the person claiming the vote was the person to whom the proclamation applied, and he had failed to obey it, that the presiding officer, before permitting him tovote, should mark the ballot-paper with the word " Proclamation " or "  Proc."  All such ballot-papers were to be dealt, with in the same manner as ballot-papers indorsed under section 9, which deals with persons whose votes may be challenged on the ground of nationality. There was also a clause providing for the appointment of tribunals empowered to determine whether the electors had wilfully failed to comply with the proclamation, and that such wilful failure was to be deemed disloyalty. This was printed on the day that  Mr. Garran,  the Solicitor-General, handed the papers to  Mr. Higgs.  The essence of the regulation was that the voters were to be questioned at the polling booth. This is what happened :  Mr. Higgs  called my attention to the report of a speech delivered by  Mr. Hughes,  in which he said that at the polling booth he had " the surprise of their lives" in store for the young men who had not registered. I was endeavouring, to the best- of my ability, to conduct the business of the Defence Department, and I thought the most serious thing that could happen to this country would be a conflict between the civil and military authorities on such an occasion. For the Prime Minister to make a statement that the polling booth was to be used to spring a surprise upon the electors astonished me beyond measure. That, of itself, was sufficient to justify our resignations. I inquired if a regulation had been framed to give effect to this statement. I went to  Mr. Starling,  the then Acting Secretary to the Prime Minister, and he said he would see the Solicitor-General. I saw him go into the Solicitor-General's room. When he came out he told me there was no such regulation, and I informed  Senator Russell  and  Mr. Higgs  that no such regulation was intended. When the Executive Council met that afternoon three regulations came along. This regulation, the essence of which  Mr. Hughes  had given, was put before us. It should have been signed by the Minister for Defence, but it was not. 
Why not? 
Why did you not «ay so ? 
You could not have signed it, because it had to be signed, under the War Precautions Act, by a Minister with portfolio. 
I cannot sign the proposed regulation to question voters at the polling booths unless instructed by yourself. 
I sent a similar wire to  Senator Pearce,  the only difference being that I put " unless instructed' by yourself or . the Prime Minister." 
The regulation could not come before the Executive Council unless it was signed. 
I believe the regulation to 'be necessary. I consulted Pearce, and he entirely approves. 
He consulted me by wire. 
Please sign regulation questioning voters, polling booth; Prime Minister concurs. 
I do not think I can be accused of trying to misrepresent  Senator Pearce  when, with these wires in my possession, I assumed that he and the Prime Minister, without consulting any other members of the Cabinet, had drafted the regulations. 
Is it not possible that the text may have been drafted and submitted, or sent to me? Is that not different from preparing a regulation? 
You quibbled over the time of my return. As a matter of fact, you left office on the Tuesday, and I did not get back to Melbourne until the Thursday. 
I propose to say nothing more to the press than that I have noted their resignations, and have nothing to say by way of comment, except that if they hope by their childishly dramatic action to persuade the electors that they are men who are prepared to sacrifice office for principle, they will be bitterly disappointed. They pretend that they have resigned because of the issue of certain regulations that interfere with the electors going to the polling booths. Their attempt to impose upon the credulity of the electors is on a par with the Maltese coloured labour dodges, and is no doubt the last card in the anti-conscriptionist pack. Personally, I hail their resignations as a sure omen of victory.  Mr. Higgs,  in a spirit of lugubrious prophecy, told a reporter the other day that if conscription were carried he would have to resign. He and his coadjutors have only anticipated the inevitable by a few hours, and the people now know the kind of men who stand behind the anti-conscription party, and understand perfectly well the motives that animate them, and are resolved to vote them out. 
I do not want to comment adversely on that statement, but it left no other course open to me, seeing that it imputed motives to me, and impugned my integrity, than to lay the whole of the facts concerning the regulations before the public at the earliest possible moment, and I did it. If there is a class of men who say that these things must be kept secret, that the man who is laying his unholy hands on the ballot-box, the man who proposes to bring discord and dissension into the polling booth, must be allowed to go scot free, because under the oath to His Majesty whatever comes before the Executive Council must be treated as secret, let it be distinctly understood that whatever council or company I am in, no dishonorable conduct will be kept secret while I have a tongue to speak. These are the things that have brought this Government into contempt. The Government are now putting before the public a proposal to ask the men they have insulted to flock to their standard and give them the kudos of carrying on a system of voluntary organization. I give place to no man in this country in my loyalty to the British people. I perhaps very often put my loyalty to Australia first, but no matter what campaign is inaugurated by this Government I will be no party to it. It is foredoomed to failure, because of the men who are placing it before the community. The Government is foredoomed to failure because it lacks the first essential to success", that is, the confidence of the people. Are the members of the Government  going  to the men whom they have branded as Industrial Workers of the World men, to those whom they have branded as pro-Germans, and as the murderers of our soldiers at the front, and to ask them for help? 
No, we are not. 
I never, knew any honorable senator who was more mournful over the prospects of a Government. Why should you be sorry that we have not a majority? 
They may have an opportunity very soon. 
 Then perhaps the Leaders of the Opposition might arrange ;a deputation to ask the Governor-General. 
I wish to make is that, .when.  Mr. Hughes  and his party withdrew from the meeting, nothing unfair or unreasonable had been done, and nothing had been done which any body of self-governing  men had not a perfect right to do.  Mr. Hughes  still denies the issue of the regulations which brought about the resignation of  Senator Russell, Mr. Higgs,  and myself. What is the use of such a denial when we have the Returning Officer informed and the instructions given to his officers from one end of the Commonwealth to the other. We have men in the telegraph office aware that the instructions were sent out, and we have Returning Officers and officials engaged at the polling booths on the day of the referendum aware of the existence of those instructions, and if further proof were necessary we have the existence to-day of ballot-papers with the words "Proclamation" or " Proc  " stamped upon them in accordance with the instructions. It is a most serious thing that a Prime Minister should attempt to impute to three men, who were members of his Cabinet, what is unfounded and untrue. There are two men in the public life of this country who are in a position to remove the imputation cast upon these men by the Prime Minister. One is  Mr. Jensen,  the Minister for the Navy, and the other is  His Excellency  the Governor-General. It is within their power to remove this imputation of unfairness, or of acting from improper motives on the part of these three men, and I say that, if they are willing that we should remain under that imputation, I shall take any means in my power to prove that the statement  Mr. Hughes  now makes, that the regulations that have been referred to, were never issued, is untrue and unfounded. We know that they were issued. The Prim© Minister also shelters himself under the fact that, in this matter, we are- dealing with the secrets of the Executive. * Is this the same  Mr. Hughes,  and the same Prime Minister, who attacked one of his own colleagues by revealing secrets of the Cabinet ? 
It is not revealing secrets of the Cabinet, but of the Executive Council that is objected to. Members of a Ministry do not' take an oath not to reveal secrets of the Cabinet. 
Do you say that  Mr. Mahon  had made no statement? 
The person at Kalgoorlie published a telegram from  Mr. Mahon. 
No one is disputing that; but does the honorable senator shut his eyes to the fact that the combined forces of the Allies, during the last six months, have not only held their own, but have been gradually drawing the ring of bayonets more closely around the armies of the Central Powers ?  Senator Millen  has said that the Germans are holding us upon the Western front, and are at the same time making a raid into Roumanian territory, and he has put this forward as a grave reason why our organization and our policy should be altered, lest otherwise we should not win the war. If Germany, during the whole of the last spring and summer, gained nothing, and lost much on the Western front, that is the result of the organization of the Allies in the production of new guns and explosives. They have, during this period, driven the German forces from trenches which they expected to be able to hold during the coming winter. They have produced guns which out-distance the range of the German guns. They have surpassed the Germans in the production of explosives, and have driven them out of the dug-outs in which they expected to spend the winter in comparative comfort. In face of the facts no one of British birth should, in his place in a British Parliament, attempt to maintain that ' Germany is holding us on the Western front. To go further afield, if the Allies could hold the prepared Germans in 1914, when they expected that their flag would be flying over Paris, and the Kaiser made the impertinent statement that they would trample over the insignificant British Army, what is to be said now when that insignificant army has grown into an enormous organization, with hundreds of thousands for the thousands it represented before? 
Army in the early stages could hold the Germans, how is it that the great British Army of to-day has not been able to overrun them? 
Surely no one can doubt the facts. The French and British did hold the Germans in the earlier stage. 
I say that since then there has been a vast organization of industry by the Allies. We cannot -make guns and munitions and organize factories in a week or a month, but I say that the position has changed since the earlier stages of the war, and to-day Great Britain and France, in the matter of the number of men on the Western front, outnumber Germany and Austria. They have exceeded their preparations for war, and slowly and surely the Germans are being driven from their prepared positions. The whole of the 1915-16 campaign has been a slow, but sure, advance to victory by the Allied armies on the Western front. These facts should, I think, be stated when we are told by  Senator Millen  that the Germans are holding us on the Western front. We have captured strongly-fortified positions, and hundreds of miles of trenches, and though the Germans staked their military reputation that their flag would be flying over Verdun in February  or in March, it is not there yet, and it never will be there. 
I do not agree with that statement. I know that at one time they were considerably nearer to Paris than they are at the present time. The invading army of Germany were at one time preparing to sit down and besiege Paris. 
Germany has been going to do wonderful things. She proposed to take Paris, and then declare peace with France, but she was not able to do so. At this time last year it was anticipated that she was going to take Petrograd, but she has not done so. 
I can understand statements like that coming from  Senator Bakhap.  A mind such as the honorable senator's is disposed to give greater prominence to German petty victories than to Great British victories. I am dealing with the statements made by  Senator Millen  that, on land, as well as on water, the Germans are holding their own, and I say that, in the opinion of the most reputable writers in the world, so far as I have been able to digest what they have written, Germany is beaten. 
Seator GARDINER.- I say that it is impossible for Germany to win, but it may take a considerable time before final victory is achieved by the Allies. That is the position as I view it. What are we to do in regard to additional man power ? I say that, as regards man power, Australia has not only done well, but that she has done excellently. Allowing for subsequent rejections and exemptions, the number of men recently passed as physically fit in a great State like New South Wales - some 30,000 - shows clearly that not more than 15,000 or 20,000 fit young men are now available there: In other words, four out of five of the eligible single men in that State have already volunteered, and proceeded to the front. Yet, because they would not vote for conscription, their brothers and sisters have been described as pro-Germans. That is an intolerable position in which to place a free people. I wish to make it quite clear that the Government can do much more for the Empire than has yet been done. The quickest -way in which it can do this is by giving place to men who possess the confidence of the country. 
Those members can speak for themselves. I venture to say that, during the time that I occupy the position of Leader of the Australian Labour 'party in the Senate, there will be no attempt to curtail the speeches of my colleagues. For two years the late Government gave effect to the Labour policy. During that period, its actions gave satisfaction alike to nine-tenths of the people of Australia, to the people of Great Britain, and to our Allies, while it bitterly disappointed those who wished to put party politics before the welfare of our country. 
Certainly . 
It did not. It had a promise from the Premiers of the States that lilley would give effect to that policy. Accepting their assurances, it consented to having those powers conferred upon the Commonwealth during' war time by the State Parliaments. To the discredit of every State Government, with the exception of New South Wales, not one of them respected its promise. 
If I was deceived by the promises of the State Premiers, I am prepared to accept my share of the responsibility. It will be my fault if they deceive me again. The late Government were . gulled into desisting from their attempt to amend the Constitution by the separate -promises of the six Premiers of Australia who, with the exception of  Mr. Holman,  failed to keep their "promise. 
I know nothing of it. 
I propose to conclude my speech with a few observations regarding the policy of the party which I have the honour to lead. 
Because there are persons who say that our policy has changed since a certain event happened. I wish to say that our policy is the same now as it was before. 
Our policy is the policy which enabled our men-of-war to protect our" coasts from threatened raids by German vessels. Our policy is that, which, thanks to our compulsory military training system, enabled us to quickly send trained men to assist the Empire on the outbreak of war, and which permitted us within a brief space of two years to organize, arm, equip, and train 300,000 men to participate in the great struggle that is now in progress. 
I am now speaking as their mouthpiece, and I have no hesitation in affirming that our policy is unchanged. The Minister for Defence may put us in the position of our bitterest enemies - the members of the Industrial Workers of the World. But our worst enemy is William Morris Hughes, who would put a fire-stick into our Constitution, if he could.. I repeat that there has been no change in the policy of the Australian Labour party, and that we shall always treat the people of this country with the consideration to which they are entitled. 
During my twenty-five years connexion with the Labour movement, the Political Labour Councils have never attempted to interfere with me. I appeal to  Senator Lynch  to say whether they have interfered with him during his twenty-seven years' association with the movement? 
Then why anticipate that they will do so? 
I am not going to allow the Minister for Defence, or any other honorable senator, to say that outside interference has caused him to leave the party. 
I am glad to know that  Senator Millen,  from his many years' knowledge of me, recognises that I am so obedient and pliant. 
The outside  organizations are just as much entitled to respect and. consideration pf their views as we are. But when they lay down conditions which are intolerable to a member of this Senate, I shall give that as a reason for getting outside the party. 
But although there may be cases which make it appear 
Who could have said it? / 
It is quiteeasy to suppose a case, of certain peopledoing a certain thing, but surely I should wait for actual occurrences before taking; action. 
My league asked me what meetings I was going to address on the question of conscription, and I replied saying that I did not intend to address any meetings. 
I was asked for no further explanation until the campaign was over. 
I wish to say that, as soon as ever the question of conscription arose, I did not hesitate to publish my views upon it. To follow the leagues on this occasion was merely to follow my own views. At the same time I confess that there were grave problems confronting me, which rendered my position an extremely difficult one, and I putin about two as unpleasant months as a.man could, in seriously considering it. 
If they had said that, they would have had my resignation immediately. I can safely assume that the outside political organizations which for twenty years have made the biggest success of a political movement' which the world can show, are not going to ask questions of that kind. I venture to say that, while the common sense of the working classes prevails, while they are driven into corners by the lawyerlike classes in the community, you will find none of those things calculated to disrupt our movement. I have been led by interjections into speaking much longer than I had intended to do. As the mouth-piece of the party for the time being here, I desire to make it quite clear that there has been no change in the party because there has been a change in the leadership; that there has been no change because of the existing breach. It is the same party, with the same policy - a policy which, I venture to say, with its Commonwealth Bank, its Fleet, and its compulsory trainees, has enabled Australia, during the last two years, to go ahead so successfully as it has done. I hope the same policy will continue, and I know that the honorable senators who are following me on the present occasion will carry out those same proposals which have been given to us year after year by our Conference, but .which have generally crystallized the common sense of the working classes of Australia. 
The honorable senator may make a personal explanation; but, of course, there must be a limit to explanations which threaten to develop into a squabble between certain honorable senators. 
Order! This is not a personal explanation with regard to anything concerning the honorable senator. It is a statement about something which took place with regard to  Mr. Hughes,  or somebody else. I cannot permit a statement of that kind to be made. If the honorable senator has been misrepresented, or if anything he has said has been perverted, he is entitled- to make a personal explanation. 

 Senator Lt.-Colonel Sir ALBERT GOULD (New South Wales) [3.7]. - I hope that this little storm is over. It has been most interesting to listen to the addresses we have had concerning the Ministerial statement, ' and though those addresses have been confined to two honorable senators, still there was a good deal of electricity in the air during the course of their delivery.  Senator Gardiner  was at very great pains to let us into a number of secrets in connexion with the administration of the Government during the time he was in office. The most interesting part of his address related to the issue of the proclamation for home defence, which it is alleged was done in a peculiar way. I certainly agree with both  Senator Millen  and  Senator Gardiner  that it was a very great mistake to attempt in any way to prejudice the position of men who came to the poll to record their votes, either in one direction or the other. When a ballot of the people is about to be taken in regard to a great question, the less it is mixed up with other matters the more likely is it to get at the true judgment of the people. Had the ordinary course been adopted by the Government of considering these matters in Cabinet, where every Minister would have had an opportunity to express his opinion, we would not have had all this, discussion in regard to these particular regulations. So far as the Executive Council is concerned, the course of procedure is very simple. If the question of a departure from the ordinary policy of the country is raised, it should be determined by the Cabinet, and a minute should go to the Executive Council bearing the signature of the Minister whose Department is involved, or, if it is a matter of national importance, the signature of the Prime Minister. The function of the Executive Council is simply to record the determinations which have been arrived at by the Cabinet or by individual Ministers, and then there is no question of the disclosure of anything done in Executive Council. It is simply a question as to whether debates in Cabinet should be made known to the public. We find that there has been a break in the Labour party, and that a certain number of the Ministers have  retired from the Hughes Administration, which was in existence when both Houses of Parliament were adjourned for the recent referendum. We have heard a great many disclosures which, perhaps, it would have been better, in the interests of all parties concerned, if they had not been made. While  Senator Gardiner  has taken to himself a great deal of credit for the position which he occupied, and the attitude which he took up in connexion with the anti-conscription campaign, there is one thing which he has not explained to the Senate yet, and that is why he remained a member of the Cabinet, though silent when it was exercising its power to induce the people to vote for a system of conscription to which he was directly opposed. 
That would involve the destruction of thousands of lives which otherwise might have been saved, and the destruction of hundreds of thousands of pounds' worth of property which might have been saved by putting a speedy end to the war. The issue was put to the people, and, rightly or wrongly, they came to a conclusion which we, under the Constitution, are bound to respect.. At the same time, I personally deplore the result of the referendum. I believe that the verdict might have been different had. certain circumstances which occurred from time to time been eliminated from the campaign. I realize that it is easy to be wise after the event.  Senator Gardiner  was very much concerned with regard to. the attitude of the Opposition to the Government at the present stage. I admit that, here, we are very few in number, and possibly our votes may not have very great weight or influence. It cannot, however, be made too clear that the Opposition do not depart one jot from the policy which they believe is the best in the interests of this country. But when it comes to a national question like the prosecution of the war, we feel that our duty, is to be behind any body of men who are working honestly, fairly, and conscientiously in trying to win the war in a speedy way. If we did otherwise, we would not be worthy of the position which we occupy in the public arena. It is the duty of every honorable senator to do all that lies in his power to assist" to bring the war to an end, and if any honorable senator can show any better means than the Government have adopted it is his duty to put it before the people. I am prepared to support the Government in all matters which I consider will help to end the war successfully, but I reserve the. right to criticise the proposals and methods of the Government whenever I see fit to do so. My criticism, however, when offered, will not be hostile, but will rather be that of a friend who desires to assist them in the very grave duties they are called upon to perform. It is true, as  Senator Gardiner  says, that the Government represent the smallest party numerically in both Houses. No doubt it is desirable at all times to have a Government with a fair working majority at their command on all matters of public policy, but we are faced witu the alternative of supporting that portion of the Labour party which has advocated the principle that we believe to be necessary in the interests of the country, or the other portion, which is entirely opposed to that principle. Our party is not sufficiently strong to rule in both. Houses. "We have, therefore, to accept the position as it stands, and are going to follow the men whose policy we consider to be best in the interests of the country in the present great national struggle. I hope the Government will not' attempt to bring forward any of the Labour ideals which have been put before the country from time to time regarding matters of every-day concern. I. trust they will see that their duty is simply to do all they can to assist in carrying the war to a successful conclusion, and to provide adequate measures of taxation, combined with rigid economy, not only for war purposes, but for the interests of the country at large. If the Government do this, they may be very well satisfied that they will receive the support and approbation, not only in this chamber, but in the country, of the right-thinking portion of the community. One honorable senator behind me interjects that they will have to bring down their taxation proposals. It will be time enough to consider those when they come before us. I saw a forecast of them in the press, and, if that is correct, I think the Government can appeal with confidence to the people for fair support for their financial, policy. The proposals submitted by the previous Treasurer would have been absolutely ruinous to the object the Government desired to attain. 
Sena-tor Mullan. - You must admit that  Mr. Cook  has destroyed the first plank of his platform. . 
SenatorLt.-Colonel  Sir ALBERT  GOULD. - It is my own pronouncement. I do not speak on behalf of the Opposition, though as a member of it I. believe in the principles it is advocating, and am prepared to support them. I always reserve to myself the right of freedom of action, and I deny to any body inside or outside of Parliament the right to hold me in its pocket, and direct how I shall vote. I say that it is a public scandal and disgrace that the executives of the Political Labour Leagues should have taken it upon themselves to expel from their ranks some of their ablest men, and amongst them those who have been most instrumental in establishing their party. One would have thought that common gratitude would have urged them to adopt a different attitude. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator de  Largie) adjourned. 
For a considerable number of months I have been trying to ascertain from the Government how the lands of the Commonwealth are held. 
Order. The honorable senator is not entitled to discuss that matter on this motion. He has a motion on the paper dealingwith the question, and he cannot anticipate its discussion. 
I cannot help that. It is my duty to enforce the Standing Orders, and under them an honorable senator is not permitted to anticipate the discussion of a motion already on the business-paper.  Senator Grant  waa given an opportunity when to-day I proceeded to the placing of business to put his motion dealing with this question forward in the most favorable position for early discussion. He declined to take advantage of that opportunity, and. I cannot on the motion for the adjournment, permit him to initiate a discussion upon the question. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I desire to make a personal explanation. Honorable senators will remember that last week  Senator O'  Keefe addressed to me a question which, sir, with your sanction" and approval, I endeavoured to answer. I notice that the matter has been presented through the press as if involving a conflict of veracity between the Prime Minister and myself. I thought that I had made it clear - I wish to do so now - that no such conflict exists. My statement then was quite clear, in spite of what the press has published - that I accepted the Prime Minister's statement without any reservation.  His  statement was that certain regulations had not been issued. That, sir, is a simple fact. The regulations were not issued, and not gazetted. My statement had no reference to the issue of the regulations. It was a statement that instructions - not the regulations - had been issued. I only wish to say, in order to clear this away, that again I accept fully, without any reservation, the Prime Minister's statement on that point. 
They were issued. 
Has the Assistant Minister yet received any reply to my question as to whether prosecutions were instituted against certain people in Tasmania in connexion with the disturbances of public meetings ? 
The reply reads as follows : - 
No action  was  taken by the Commonwealth authorities. The Commonwealth is not concerned with any action which may have been taken under the State law. 
asked ohe Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice -  ]. What firm in Launceston, Tasmania, was appointed as agent for the Commonwealth Government for the purchase of wolfram? 
What price were they to pay the miners? 5. Did the miners receive the proclaimed prices in every case from this firm t 
If not, what price did the firm in question pay for wolfram? 
What redress will the miners have if they have not been paid according to law? 
What action is the Government taking against this firm for breaking the law ? 
The answers are - 
Dalgety and Co. Ltd. were appointed sole agents throughout the Commonwealth for the Commonwealth Government. 
For wolfram, at least 65 per cent.  WO3,  48s. Id. ex ship Sydney. 3 to 6. Some instances have been brought under notice in which full prices were not paid. Dalgety and Co. were communicated with, and the whole matter is now being adjusted. 
Order ! I desire to again call the attention of the Senate to the fact that honorable senators are continuing to disobey my ruling not to make statements in asking questions. Paragraph 6 of this question is a distinct breach of that ruling, and, only that it escaped my notice, I would not have allowed it to appear in that form on the notice-paper. It asks, " What action ia the Government taking against this firm for breaking the law ?" There a distinct allegation, is made, under cover of asking a question, that a firm has broken the law. That is a most improper thing t» do, and I hope that honorable senators will obey the ruling which I have given, namely, that questions can only be asked for the purpose of obtaining information, and must not contain insinuations, statements, or comments. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
ls it a fact that a company has been formed to erect works at Port Kembla, NewSouth Wales, for the manufacture of electric cables,  &amp;c,  &lt;fcc? 
Has the Government given any guarantee to said company for the manufacture of all or any electric cables required by the Post Office Department for any specified time? 
Has any company approached the Government in connexion with any such guarantee? 
The following answers are supplied by the Prime Minister : - 
Yes. 2 and 3. An undertaking has been given to the Metal Manufactures Ltd. that it should have the opportunity of supplying all the copper  goods which the company intended manufacturing, which will be required by the PostmasterGeneral's and other Government Departments for a period of ten years. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice- 
Has his attention been directed to  a  report of a speech made by  Mr. Ernest  E. Keep,  President  of the Employers 'Federation, appearing in the  Argus  of the 28th ultimo, which,  inter alia,  reads - " Without saying anything personal about any one of them, I feel that I express your views when I say that the men who occupy seats and draw salaries as members of any of the fourteen Houses of Parliament are politicians and not statesmen. Members arc returned to Parliament, not to represent the views of their constituents, ' but to carry out the orders of the political labour leagues, now saturated with the views of the I.W.W. - supported, there is no doubt, by German money - in the several States. . That is the position to-day " ? 
Will the Minister proceed under the War Precautions Act against  Mr. Keep  and those he alleges to be the recipients of German money ? 
If not, why not? 
These questions have been referred to the AttorneyGeneral, who has supplied the following answers :  - 
No. 
The statements in question do not appear to constitute offences against the War Precautions Act 1914-1916, or the Regulations thereunder. 
See answer to No. 2. 
asked the Minister for Works,  upon notice - 
How many miles are the rails laid eastward from Kalgoorlie on the transcontinental line? 
How many miles are the rails laid westward from Port Augusta on the transcontinental line? 
What is the distance between the  Tail  heads on the western and eastern sections? 
The answers are - 
526 miles 37 chains. 
404 miles 73 chains. 
121 miles 50 chains. 
A map giving this and other information in regard to the railway has been on exhibition in the Queen's Hall for the last few days. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice- 
Who authorized, and what were the reasons for, the raid by the police on the premises of  Mr. Victor  J. Shaw, Elizabeth-street, Launceston, secretary of the Launceston AntiConscription Committee, on the 24th October, 1916? 
Who gave the information which led the police to make the raid in question? 
Were any documents or evidence of a suspicious character found by the police on the premises? 
The answers are - 
The Commandant of the Sixth Military District, Tasmania, authorized the search, consequent on the receipt of information that prohibited matter was on the premises. 
It is not desirable to reveal the names of those who give information in such cases as this. 
No. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that the following cable messages, purporting to be from Lieutenant Jacka, V.C., were published in the Commonwealth on the morning of the referendum poll (28th October, 1916) : - 
The  Age,  Melbourne - "  Mr. Adam  McCay, publicity secretary, National Referendum Council, stated last night that Lieutenant Jacka, V.C, sent a cable message in the terms which were published in the  Age  of Thursday - 
 Anzacs demand to be reinforced. Trust Australia will not leave us in the lurch. Strong regiments mean light losses.' " 
The  Examiner,  Launceston - "Now read what Lieutenant Jacka, V.C, says - 
 Anzacs demand to be reinforced. Trust Australia will not leave us in the lurch. I don't think any decent man will vote No.'"? 
Will the Prime Minister ascertain which statement is correct, and institute a prosecution under the War Precautions Act against either or both of the newspapers if it is found on inquiry that they have wilfully misrepresented the message? 
The answers supplied by the Prime Minister are as follow: - 
Yes. The message published in the  Age  is  a  correct copy of the cable sent. The message in the  Examiner  is not published  as a  cable, but is  a  compilation of statements made by Jacka in the cable, and in  a  letter which appeared in the press. 
See No. 1. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
In the event of an Australian soldier at the front answering the call of the British military authorities to undertake special service necessitating his being transferred from the A.I.F. unit to the British unit,' will that involve the forfeiture of the pay previously received by him as an Australian private for the pay usually made to a private in the British Army ? 
The answer is: - 
In connexion with members of the Australian Imperial Force who are loaned to the Imperial Government for service in the Imperial Army, or on the other hand members of the Imperial Army who are made available for service with the Australian Imperial Force, it has been arranged between the Commonwealth and Imperial .authorities that such members shall continue to be paid by and under the regulations of the Government to which they belong. Should a member of the Australian Imperial Force, however, obtain his discharge from the Australian Imperial Force in order to join the Imperial Army, he would be paid at the rates provided for the latter, but such discharges are only granted in exceptional circumstances, and then only when it is in the interests of the service. 
I cannot believe that there ever will be such cases. The British Government would not ask one of our soldiers to leave the Australian Army in order to join the British Forces without first obtaining the consent of the Commonwealth Government. All such cases are first of all represented to the Commonwealth Government, whose consent having been obtained, the soldier is permitted to take his discharge, and to join the Imperial Army. On the other hand, there have been cases in which the British Government have applied for the loan of the services of Australian soldiers, and in such circumstances the latter receive the Australian rates of Pay. But where a soldier relinquishes his connexion with the Australian Army and joins the British Army he receives only the British rates of pay. 
With the consent of the Commonwealth Government, -' Yes." 
In moving - 
That Statutory Rule 273 of 1916, under tha War Precautions Act 1914-16, be disallowed, 
I wish to say that one could entertain no reasonable objection to this particular rule- 
But if either House of Parliament passes a resolution of which notice hus been given at any time within fifteen sitting days after such regulations have been laid before such House disallowing any regulation, such regulation shall thereupon cease to have effect. 
Notice of motion to disallow this regulation was given on Friday, 1st December. Upon that date the regulation itself had not been laid upon the table of the Senate. 
Has the Minister tabled it to-day ? 
Whilst admitting the force of the point raised by  Senator 
Pearce, which, after all, simply goes to indicate the neglect of the Government in denying to Parliament the right to challenge the regulation at the earliest possible moment, I wish to raise another point. Section 10 of the Acts Interpretation Act of 1904 provides that - 
Where an Act confers power to make regulations, all regulations made accordingly shall, unless the contrary intention appears - 
be laid before both Houses of the Parliament within thirty days of the making thereof, or if the Parliament is not then sitting, within thirty days after the next meeting of the Parliament. 
The regulation was made on the 3rd November, and the point I would ask you, sir, to determine is whether, although there was an adjournment, Parliament has not been sitting all the time) 
No. In each case the Act simply says " within thirty days," but in the proviso which follows " fifteen sitting days " are referred to. My point is that Parliament has really been in session, and that without any resolution of the Senate the regulation is void, seeing that it was not laid on the table within thirty days of their making. 
Before dealing with the point of order raised by the Minister for Defence, I shall deal with the point raised by  Senator Mullan,  that Parliament has been continuously sitting, that the regulation should have been tabled before, and that, as it has not been tabled, it is null and void. That may or may not be so, but it is no part of my jurisdiction as  President  to compel the Government to table regulations, nor am I called on to decide whether the point raised by  Senator Mullan  is valid. If it is valid, the regulation is already null and void without any specific motion on the honorable senator's part. The point of order raised by the Minister for Defence must be sustained, because the Acts Interpretation Act, as quoted by the Minister, simply provides that regulations must be tabled within a certain time if they are to have the force of law, and specifies the time within which this or the other House may deal with them after they are tabled. The first condition has not been complied with, and., therefore, the right of the Senate to interfere has not yet arisen, although, if the regulation is to be pro ceeded with, it must eventually arise. I am bound- by the Standing Orders and by the Act of Parliament which governs the situation, and, as the conditions have not been fulfilled, and the regulation has not been tabled, the Senate has no proper cognisance of it. I therefore rule that the motion cannot be proceeded with. 
I must sustain the point of order. It would be an obvious waste of time to move to disallow something which is already repealed. 
If the honorable senator had risen before I began I should have heard him, but I cannot allow him to interrupt me in the middle of my ruling.  
I do not intend to abridge the right of any honorable senator to make an explanation, but I should not be interrupted half-way through my ruling. Any honorable senator who desires to make an explanation may do so afterwards, or if he considers that my ruling is not a proper one, he will be at liberty to move that it be disagreed with. It is obvious that a thing that does not exist cannot be disallowed. I have here a copy of a regulation made -to-day disallowing the regulation referred to in the motion, and also a copy of the  Government Gazette  containing that notification. The object which  Senator Mullan  has in view has, therefore, been already accomplished. 
Is it the pleasure of the Senate that  Senator Mullan  have leave to make a personal explanation? 
Leave granted. 
Lest honorable senators should think that I was doing something unfair to them in moving to disallow a regulation which had been already repealed, I wish to explain that as late as noon to-day I made inquiries in the proper quarters to ascertain if this regulation had been in any way vetoed by the Government, and received an assurance that it had not. The Government have come down at the last moment with a new regulation, and I am delighted that they have acquiesced in our desires. 
In the debate, so far, there has not been the amount of attention given to the war that one would like. I hope that as the debate proceeds more attention will be directed to the war itself, and less to the trivialities that have been occupying the attention of the Senate hitherto. It has been said that an onlooker sees more of the game than those who take part in it, and as I have had somewhat unusual opportunities lately to see the great tragedy being enacted on the other side of the world, I wish to confine myself as much as possible to my experiences, and to do something to direct the discussion into a profitable channel. Tt is scarcely necessary for me to say that I was absent from the Senate while the Referendum Bill was under consideration. For the first time during my career as a member of this Senate, I was unable to take part in an important debate. 
When we left Australia, the political outlook here was not overcast, and the Government was conducting the war in a satisfactory manner. Even the Opposition had no complaints. When we reached South Africa, I realized the great difficulties under which that country was labouring, and of which we really know so little in Australia. Later on, when we travelled through Canada, we were able to appreciate the peculiar difficulties confronting that country, which, together with South Africa, has recently been criticised for its attitude towards recruiting for the war. As the result of our visit, we have good reason for congratulation that Australia, at an early stage in its history, determined upon a White Australia policy, and that, as a consequence, we have not here any of those grave racial troubles that exist, for instance, in South Africa, where, also, the influence of the Boer war is still felt. The elder generation of Boer citizens to-day are not very enthusiastic about the war. We all remember that, shortly after the conflict started, a rebellion occurred in South Africa, but, happily, it was suppressed by General Botha, who has proved himself to be one of the most loyal and capable statesmen of the Empire. 
Yes, I agree that General Botha is one of the greatest men discovered by the war. During my stay in Cape Town I had an opportunity to listen to a debate in the Union Parliament, and I was surprised to hear a Boer member of that Legislature - a former parson of the Dutch Reformed Church - speak in such a manner as to throw every obstacle he possibly could in the way of Government assistance to Great Britain. He was pointing out that Germany was no enemy of the Boer people, and that, instead of South Africans going from the Union to fight against Germany in East and West Africa, it would be better for them to stay at home and mind their own business. The millions of pounds that South Africa had already spent in the war, he declared, would have been much better employed in the development of their local industries. Then there is that other aspect of the problem confronting South Africa - I refer to its enormous coloured population. Johannesburg, Kimberley, Durban, and Cape Town, appear to be full of coloured people. I do not wish, however, to convey the impression that the disloyal element in South Africa is represented by a large section of the Bon* population, because I know that a considerable proportion of the Boer citizens of that country are doing all in their power to help Great Britain in this great struggle. 
I think I read in the cable news to-day that  Mr. Asquith,  the Prime Minister of Great Britain, had said that up to the present there was no truth in the statement, and it is probable that this is only another mare's nest, similar to the statement with regard to the Maltese coming to Australia. I cannot leave this part of the subject without referring to the fact that the Australian parliamentary delegates visiting South Africa received cordial hospitality and every consideration. The overwhelming majority of the members of the Union Parliament of South Africa are doing everything possible to successfully prosecute the war. Now as to the position in Canada. We have to remember that geographically Canada occupies a very different position from that occupied by Australia. Canada has a frontier line extending for 3,000 miles between her and the United States of America in which the number of Germans is nearly double the total population of Canada. It is easy, therefore, to understand that the menace of this open frontier has had an important effect upon the efforts which Canada has been able to make for the prosecution of the war. The Canadian people have had before them the constant fear of a raid from over the United States border. Such raids have several times occurred in the history of the country, and this fact has constituted a difficulty with which the Canadian Government has had to contend that does not confront us in Australia. Again, in Canada the efforts which it has been possible to make for the prosecution of the war have been influenced by a racial question as they have been in South Africa, though from different reasons and operating in a different way.- Nearly the whole of lower Canada may be said to be peopled by French Canadians, of whom there are nearly 3,000,000 in the Dominion. Until the circumstances are examined it may be difficult to believe that as a matter of fact the French 
Canadians are intensely loyal to Great Britain. They are on the other hand on anything but friendly terms with the French Republic. In order to understand this it is necessary to go back to the date cf the Treaty which followed the battle of Quebec, in which the French were defeated by the British, and Canada became a British colony. At that time, which was prior to the French Revolution, the French peasants settled in Canada, who depended for their protection upon the aristocratic military class under a system something like the feudal system in England, felt that they were deserted by their natural protectors and abandoned by their mother country, France. The result was that for generations a great coldness existed between the French people in Canada and the people of France. In more recent years the soreness on the part of French Canadians towards the French Republic has been intensified by difficulties arising between Church and ,State in France. Some years ago the Government of the day in France expelled quite a number of priests and nuns, many of whom went to Canada.. Their expulsion from France increased this feeling of soreness against the Republic on the part of the French Canadians, who are an intensely religious people. I know of no new country in which the people are animated by such strong religious sentiments as are the French Canadians. The expulsion of the priests and nuns led to such an intensification of the old grievance of French Canadians against France that many of those whom I met went the length of saying that so far as France is concerned the present war has been sent by God as a punishment for the persecution of Mother Church by the French Republic. In view of these circumstances the Canadian Government could not expect to get a great many recruits from the French section of the population. They only recruited some 32,000 from the French population of nearly 3,000,000. I believe that the French Canadians are as loyal to Great Britain as are any other people of the Empire, and if France were not concerned in the war a great many more recruits would have been obtained from amongst the French population in Canada. These are important difficulties which have not had to be faced in Australia. Thank God, we have no racial difficulties here. Our differences are those of political parties. We are a more united people than are the people of either South Africa or Canada, and I think I may say that we are the most British people of the oversea Dominions of the Empire. 
Bearing upon the honorable senator's interjection, I may say that I grew quite accustomed in the. Old Country to hear Australia and the Australians referred to with enthusiasm, and I know that they have gained the good will and popularity of the people there. I am afraid that if I went back to Great Britain to-day I should not find the popularity quite so evident as it was during the few months I was there. For -some time Australia was rather neglected in the Old Country because of lack of knowledge on the part of the people of Great Britain, but I think I may say that she has never been so well and favorably known in the "United Kingdom as she is at the present time. I should be sorry to think that anything could occur which would interfere with her present popularity there. Wherever we went in the Old Country we heard nothing but good about Australia and Australians. I know that at functions at which representatives of the other Dominions were present I used to feel somewhat embarrassed on hearing all the praise given to Australians. This was a sort of reflected glory which the delegates from Australia had gained because of the action of our boys in Flanders, and also in Turkey. 
I must confess that that remark is perfectly true. I had to come back to Australia to hear all the nasty things said of it, and I hope that we shall be able to get back to that much more pleasant position we were in a few months ago in the opinion of our Allies. IE was not only in Canada, South Africa, and Great Britain, that I heard these praises sung, but also in France. The French people know Australia to-day as they had never known it previously. Wherever I went in that country I heard nothing but the highest praise showered upon the heads of our boys at the front, and on Australian people in general. Every credit was given to them for what they were doing in the war. I hope that, as the outcome of this debate, we shall be able to formulate a scheme or policy which will bring us back to the favorable position we" were in before. I would like to say here that the people of Great Britain before the war, and for some time after, were much more . opposed to the military system of conscription in that country than we in Australia were. Those who helped to pass our first Defence Bill will remember that, to some extent, we favoured conscription. How far that went may be a matter of dispute, but I think that for twelve or thirteen years every person who understood the Defence Act of the Commonwealth recognised that we had put our approval on conscription, at all events "for defence within its boundaries. 
That is perfectly true. In Australia, the Labour party had gone a considerable way to approve of compulsory service, and we certainly had put on the statute-book the principle of  compulsory  training, and that principle was on the platform of the Labour party.  Whilst the people of Great Britain had been closely pledged for generations to the principle of voluntary enlistment for the defence of the country, and whilst we in Australia had, to a certain extent, approved of the principle of_ conscription, I found, when in the Old Land, that there was le.ss objection to conscription in Great Britain than there was in  Australia.  That may seem a very strange thing, but it is a notorious fact; as events have shown. 
I thought some years ago that the people of Great Britain would never depart from the voluntary principle of defence. It was force of circumstances which made Great Britain change her view. She had tried the voluntary system, and it had proved a miserable failure, so that the authorities had no option than to get an army in the way in which every other nation up to the present time could get an army, and that is by making every able-bodied citizen do his bit towards the defence of the country. Whilst 
I was in the Old Land I took an opportunity to investigate how the .principle of conscription was working out, believing that, possibly, it would be introduced into Australia before 'very long. Remembering how far we had gone along the conscription road, I never dreamt that any great opposition would be' offered to a proposal of that kind. I was therefore an interested investigator in examining how the system of conscription was working out in the land of voluntarism and  Manchesterism  in general. Wherever I made inquiries - whether it was from a Labour member at Westminster or from the secretary or  president  of a trade union, or from my old workmates in my native town - I found an almost unanimous approval of the conscription principle for running the country in time of war. The only limitation which was applied to the principle was that it was to operate only while the war was being carried on. They declared that as soon as the war was finished many of the conscription laws should cease to operate. It must be borne in mind that these laws apply to industries as well as to the army. It is a very comprehensive set of conscription laws which Great Britain is working under at the present time. It' is not only the soldiers who are working under direct Government officers, because we find the conscription laws applying to industrial efforts in that country. Wherever I went in" England and Scotland - whether I went to Hyde Park public meetings or to that great rallying place known as Glasgow Green - I heard  nothing but approval of the conscription system. That, I can assure honorable senators, was an eye opener to me, who had been trained to the opposite belief. I could scarcely realize that I was in the same country in which I was reared. I am sorry that the conscription campaign in Australia was over before I returned, because I feel that if these facts regarding the working of conscription abroad had been properly known and understood here a great deal of the misconception would have been removed.- However, that is a matter of the past, and we can only feel sorry that the people of Australia did not understand the bearings of the question better; if they had I do not believe that they would have voted as they did. 
As far as the satisfactory working of conscription in Great Britain is concerned, I do not think that there is any conflict of opinion amongst the delegates. Of course, we differ as to whether we should or should not adopt it in Australia; and for that matter there was a difference of opinion amongst the twelve apostles. When I find the most extreme Labour agitators, such as Tillett and Blatchford, enthusiastic advocates of conscription in the Old Country, I am quite satisfied to be guided by their opinion, especially as  Mr. Tillett  is secretary of one of the  biggest unions in Great Britain, and  Mr. Blatchford  is the editor of a well-known Socialist newspaper. In Australia the Labour party is pledged to give support to the prosecution of the war as no other party has ever been pledged. 
We know that by the utterances of  Mr. Fisher  the Labour party was pledged to the last man and the last shilling, and I think that we are a long way from having reached that stage. To my mind there is a considerable amount of repudiation of that promise as indicated by the attitude of some honorable senators sitting on the Opposition side. 
The only people who I know advocate violence are the members of the I.W.W. 
Let me point out here that the conscriptionists of Great Britain recognised that it ' was for service ' abroad .when they gave their consent to the adoption of the principle. If the conscription policy confined the troops to Great Britain instead of extending to France and following the enemy wherever he could be found, it would be the height of foolishness and ridiculousness. A man who says that he believes in defending his country at home instead of going abroad to defend it is talking foolishly. If he would prefer to bring all the horrors of war into his own country before he would fight abroad, he is not fit to be in uniform. There is only one place he ia fit for, and that is a lunatic asylum. 
If ever there were a shallow, miserable excuse offered - a mere apology for an excuse - it is that men are against conscription for service abroad whilst pretending they favoured conscription for home defence. I am sure that no person is deceived by an excuse of that kind. Some honorable senators of the Opposition are declaring that, although they are of military age and fit to go to the front, they do not intend to go or do anything by advice or otherwise to get others to enlist. If that is not repudiation of the election promise on which those gentlemen to a great extent were elected, I do not know what faith one can put in election promises. We know that in 1914 the Labour members were elected on statements made by  Mr. Fisher  and published all over Australia. A colleague from the same State has made an utterance quite recently that he, though fit and of military age, is not going to the front. If that is not repudiation, what is it? It is a disgraceful state of affairs for any man to be elected on a war policy, and after two years of fighting and after some 300,000 men of his country have gone to the front, to turn round and say that he will not help the nation. Having seen some of the actual fighting in France, having seen some of our boys after a very severe battle was fought, come to the nearest dressing station, 1 say that such an Australian is a heartless creature and ought not to he in the National Parliament. Some persons have insinuated that if the details ofthe voting were made known it would be shown that the oversea soldiers had voted against conscription. I do not believe that our soldiers voted against conscription; it is most improbable that they did so, because to do so would be to vote against help that is much needed at the front. Knowing that some portion of the front has not budged an inch in two years'' fighting - I refer to that part of the front which is about 70 miles from Paris - can any reasonable person say that no help is required? Can any man with a knowledge of the position in Belgium, where the whole of the country is still in the hands of the enemy, just as it was two years ago, imagine for a mom«nt that there is no need for all the assistance which the 
Allies can render? I am as proud as any man of what Australia has done in this war. In proportion to population, perhaps no country amongst the Allies has done more, but that is not a reason why we should not do our utmost. Is the making of miserable comparisons between the number of men who have gone from South Africa or Canada, and the number who have gone from Australia, the patriotic way of conducting the war? Is success to be secured in that way? I hope we shall direct our attention to the necessity of putting forth our greatest efforts towards a successful prosecution of the war. We have had enough fuss in this chamber over an alleged regulation, about which nobody seems to be very sure, as if it were themost important thing connected with the conduct of the war. Need I remind honorable senators that all that that regulation would have accomplished would have . been the exposure of a number of shirkers who desired to exercise their citizen privileges without shouldering their citizen obligations. I hold that any man who refuses to obey the laws of this country has no proper claim to exercise the franchise. If the regulation about which so much has been said had been put into operation, I do not know that very much harm would have resulted. Yet  Senator Gardiner,  on Friday last, devoted two hours of his speech to an attempt to bolster up the case of these shirkers who had defied the law of the Commonwealth. I hope that these miserable excuses will be brushed on one side, and that we shall all do our utmost to assist in bringing the present - disastrous war to a triumphant conclusion. During this struggle Australia has gained more glories than has any other nation.  Trior  to Anzac we had. no separate war history or traditions. It is a well-known figure of speech that if the map of the world were painted red in order to . indicate the countries in which war has taken place, almost every country except Australia would be coloured red. With our brief history of war, no country in the world has secured greater fame. We should be careful, therefore, to see that the exploits of our troops in the future redound as much- to their credit as did the deeds of our brave Anzacs. I hope that we shall hear nothing more of the miserable regulation to which, repeated reference has been made, and that a more patriotic tone will pervade this debate. ^ 
.- I desire to congratulate  Senator de-  Largie upon the interesting address which he has just delivered on his travels abroad. In discussing this motion, it is my intention to review a few of the incidents that transpired during the time that he was absent from the Commonwealth. As the present may he the only opportunity I shall have during the present year of placing my position fully and freely before those who are responsible for my political existence, I intend to avail myself of it. In regard to the recent campaign - the campaign initiated by the passing of a Referendum Bill, submitting to the people the question of whether or not they were in favour of compulsory service overseas - I desire to make it plain that from the very inception of that movement I made my attitude perfectly clear. In this chamber I took the stand that I would support the Referendum Bill - that is to say, the reference to the people of the question of whether or not the manhood of Australia should be compelled to go overseas to fight for the Empire. In supporting that Bill, I said that I did so because I had no mandate from my electors to say "Tes" or "No" on that question. I had no mandate from them to say whether or not the people should determine such a vital question. 
I admit that, but it does not in any way affect my opinion. In spite of tike emphatic verdict of the State which I have the honour to represent, I would adopt a similar attitude to-morrow if the same question were before the people. Whilst I had no mandate from my electors on the question, I knew that I had no mandate to prevent them determining it for themselves. They have determined it, and they have done so very emphatically. When the Referendum Bill was before this Parliament I also said that as soon as I could get to Western Australia I would oppose compulsory military service overseas. I did so. Since then a split has occurred in the Labour party to which I propose to refer.- It has been affirmed outside that the Prime Minister, when leader of that party, was not afforded an opportunity of putting his case prior to a certain motion being submitted. I say that that is not correct. He was given that opportunity, and in proof of my statement I desire to say that I asked him if he would follow the custom that had been invariably followed by other leaders of the party. I have sat under the leadership of  Mr. Watson,  of the Right Honorable Andrew Fisher, and of the present Prime Minister, and I say that it has been the invariable practice for the leader of the party, at the first Caucus meeting after a recess, to make a statement to the members of the party regarding what had transpired during the recess. I asked  Mr. Hughes  if he would make a similar statement, and he said "No." 
At a meeting of the Labour party on the 14th November, 1916. 
Undoubtedly. As every political party in Australia has a Caucus, we need not be afraid to confess that the incidents to which I have referred took place at a Caucus of the Labour party. I am not giving away any of the secrets of the Caucus, because  Mr. Hughes  himself made a statement to the press regarding what had occurred there, and those of us who remained in the room after he left it issued a statement combating his. Shortly after the Prime Minister returned from Great Britain there was a meeting of the Australian Labour party, which extended over the better part of five days, and at which the policy of the Government, so far as supplying reinforcements are concerned, wag fully discussed. When the Referendum Bill was about to be submitted to this Parliament, I asked the Prime Minister whether the members of the Labour party would be free to support or oppose the measure either on the floor of the legislative chambers or outside of them. He replied that they would. I further asked him if the members of his own Cabinet would .enjoy the same freedom, and he replied " Yes." Time went on, and  Mr. Tudor,  who was then Minister for Customs, resigned his portfolio. At another meeting of the party, shortly after,  Senator Russell  - I am sorry he is not presents - asked what his position -was, and was informed by the Prime Minister that if he opposed the referendum proposal on the public platform he would have to do what  Mr. Tudor  did - resign. These are facts which cannot be denied. I am making that statement now, and taking the full responsibility for making it. Despite the Prime Minister's statement that we were free to support or oppose the referendum question on the public platform, I found, on my arrival in Kalgoorlie, about 17th or 18th October, that, according to the local papers, the Prime Minister had dubbed those of us who were opposing his proposals " I.W.W.-ites." I suppose that meant that those of us who were opposing his proposals were in league with the Industrial -Workers of the World. I noted that statement, and, at every meeting I addressed in Western Australia, I pointed out that I never had any association with the Industrial Workers "of the World. It is most remarkable that the leader who told us we were free to oppose or support his proposals, when he found himself opposed by thirty-four members of his own part/, resorted to the tactics of describing us as "I.W.W.-ites." I have nothing to do with the Industrial Workers of the World, never had, and never will have. I made these statements on the public platforms of Western Australia, but, strange to say, they were never reported in the Western Australian press. During the campaign, however, I proved the value of that part of our electoral law which compels the writer of every article and letter published in the press, from the issue until the return of the writ, and dealing with the subject before the people, to sign his name. I made a speech in Kalgoorlie on the night of Saturday, 21st October. On the Sunday morning I saw in- the  Sunday Sun  a paragraph, signed by the editor of the paper, practically bearing out the Prime Minister's statement that I was in league with the Industrial Workers of the World. Before leaving Kalgoorlie next day I called at that gentleman's office. He was not there, but the accountant took a statement from me in his absence. I asked that an apology should be published, and the statement contradicted, or otherwise legal proceedings would have to be taken. Needless to say, my request was complied with ; but had it not been for our electoral law, I should not have known who wrote the paragraph. That is one advantage of that law, which I hope will always remain. By no stretch of the imagination can I agree with  Senator de  Largie's description of the regulation about the ballot-box as "trivial." 
It was an interference with the secrecy of the ballot that should never have been attempted. 
But these were to be marked " Proclamation." Why should there have been any necessity to question any elector going to the ballotbox? 
Is not the honorable senator aware that there was on the statute-book another Act providing ali the machinery necessary to deal with the people whom he calls scoundrels ? 
Absolutely as directly, and it has been acted on since. The Defence Act provides all the machinery to deal with these delinquents, as I call them, for I do not re-echo the term "scoundrels" used by my honorable friend. I am not here to uphold any man who breaks the law. Immediately after the proclamation was issued on 29th September calling up all men between the ages of twenty-one and thirty-five, several young men asked me what they were to do, and my reply always was, " Obey the law." Whether a member of Parliament or back at my own avocation, 1 would never encourage any citizen to break any law of the Commonwealth, or the State in which I live; but I deprecate the attempt by any man, be he Prime Minister or peasant, to intimidate citizens when about to register their vote; at the ballot-box on a referendum or any other question. There might have beer some excuse for this attempted  interference  with the ballot-box if there had been no other machinery in existence to bring these men to book; but since then several prosecutions have been instituted, and several sentences passed as the result of the machinery of the Defence Department, and not through the agency of the regulation which the Prime Minister says was never issued. Strange to' say, it was acted upon. I am not. going to doubt the Prime Minister's veracity, but on 28th October I read in the  West Australian  a report that Senators Gardiner and Russell and  Mr. Higgs  had resigned from the Cabinet on account of the regulation being put before the Executive Council, and that certain things had happened between them and the Prime Minister. Following immediately on that statementwas a paragraph stating that subsequent to that telegram being received the Federal authorities in Western Australia had been instructed that the regulation was cancelled. Just as you, sir, ruled this afternoon that an- honorable senator could not move to disallow a regulation that was not in existence, it having been cancelled fey an Executive minute laid on the table by the Leader of the Senate, so the Federal officers could not strictly be instructed that a certain thing was cancelled if it had not been in existence. I believe there are honorable senators present who can prove that the instruction was acted on in some parts of Australia, and that in some cases the ballot-papers were marked " Proclamation." Those papers would have been reserved for the Government to determine whether or not the votes should be allowed. 
At any rate, they were to be left in the hands of the Government to decide whether or not they should be allowed. That was the intention of the regulation. No honorable senator in a country such as this could justify any such action by any Government-Labour or Liberal. If the Prime Minister and his Government- have done nothing else, they have at least caused a great amount of suspicion in the  mind  of every man who believes in the government being carried on as it ought to be in a country like Australia.  Senator de  Largie referred this afternoon to the question of the Maltese coming to this country.. 
There is no mare's, nest about them. When the first lot arrived in Fremantle - speaking from memory - somewhere about August, I received a telegram from the Honorable James Cornell1, M.L.C., then acting general secretary of the State Executive of the Australian Labour Federation in Perth, informing me that a number of Maltese had arrived, and asking me to make inquiries as to whether they were coming out properly or not. I sent the telegram on to the Prime Minister, asking if the men were coming out under contract, and also . approached  Mr. Mahon,  the then Minister for External Affairs, on the same point.  Mr. Mahon  informed me that he had no knowledge of where the Maltese were coming from, who sent them out, or anything about the matter. He said that he would get in touch with the Imperial authorities, and if he found that the Maltese were coming to Australia as described, he would see that the education test was applied to them as it is to Asiatics. I asked  Mr. Mahon  if I had his authority to publish that statement, and he replied in the affirmative, so I sent it on to  Mr. Cornell,  and I believe it appeared in the papers of Western Australia. At all events, a similar statement was published in the press of this State, on the authority of the then Minister for External Affairs. A little later on I received a letter from the Prime Minister, stating that the Maltese referred to were not coming out under contract. I forwarded that letter on to  Mr. Cornell,  also, in his capacity as acting general secretary of the State Labour Executive in Western Australia, at Perth, so I have no doubt it can be turned up on the files. 
I find that on the 14th October an instruction, marked 'private and confidential," was issued to the press of Australia to the effect that they were not to publish anything concerning the arrival or the expected arrival of Maltese in Australia. On about the 19th or '21st of October - I speak from memory - another batch of about 240 Maltese arrived in Fremantle, but the captain of the ship received orders that they would not be allowed to land. In view of this statement, I fail to see how  Senator de  Largie can regard the matter as trivial. 
I have already pointed out that the Prime Minister said the Maltese were not coming out under contract, but, if that was not the case, what was the necessity for an instruction from the  Deputy  Chief Censor to the press that no reference was to be made to their arrival, or their expected arrival? I have no doubt it was fondly hoped that this document to the press, marked, as it was, " Private and confidential," would not leak out, but it did, and we are now entitled to ask, if the Maltese were not, coming out under contract, why did the  Deputy  Chief Censor issue the instructions I have referred to? Were the Government a party to those instructions? We have on the statutebook a law dealing with immigration, providing that no persons may come to the Commonwealth of Australia under contract, unless it be proved that the particular labour they may be called upon to perform is of a special character, and not available in the Commonwealth. It was incumbent upon the Government to inquire into the circumstances concerning the arrival of these Maltese, and if it were found that their labour was of a kind not available within the Commonwealth, they could have allowed the Maltese to land under the provisions of that Act. It is the duty of the Government to tell the people why the Maltese were coming here, and what particular class of employment it was intended they should be engaged in. 
It appears that the Government, through the instruction of the  Deputy  Chief Censor to the press of Australia, endeavoured to gag, not only the press, but also the representatives of the people, on the public platforms, and Parliament is now entitled to know what was the underlying purpose. .1 hope, therefore, that the Leader of the Senate will explain the position in the course of his reply to this debate. 
On that occasion no instructions were issued from, the censor to the press. 
If it were not, why were instructions issued to the press ? Surely the Government had no reason to be afraid of any transaction that was fair and aboveboard ? The next matter to which I desire to refer is the regulation passed by the Government disallowing the publication of the Anzac vote. For a few days after the referendum vote the daily press of Australia published not only the " Yes " and " No " votes in the different States, but gave details of voting in each electoral division and subdivision of the Commonwealth,- but after the issue of the regulation of which I complain the press published only the totals of the " Yes " and " No " votes in the respective States. No information was given concerning the voting by our soldiers at- the front, or on transports. I wonder if the Government are courageous enough to tell the Senate why that regulation was issued, and why it is the law to-day. 
 Senator Bakhap  is not a member of the Government, and he is not in a position to tell us authoritatively. If the Imperial Government made such a request, why did they not also instruct that the vote of the people of Australia should not be published? I am aware that the Leader of the Government will probably say that it was desired not to publish the soldiers' vote " for. military reasons," and because it would not be wise to publish to the world how our soldiers voted. But if that can be advanced as a reason for suppressing the soldiers' vote, why should it not apply also to the vote of the people of Australia as a whole? If the publication of the vote recorded by the people in this country was likely to give information of value to the enemy, the same objection could be taken to the publication of the vote of the people here, because our soldiers on oversea service are just as truly citizens of Australia as are the people of this country, and they had just as great a right to take part in the referendum and to have the result of "their voting known. I do not say, of course, that we should know how they voted individually; but we are entitled to know how many " Noes " and how many "Yeses" were recorded by our soldiers in France, England, or on the transports travelling between Australia and the Motherland. 
At the back of my mind there is the thought that the Government were afraid to publish the Anzac vote because certain statements have been made that those of us who opposed conscription were disloyalists, "pro-Germans," and "Huns." As a matter of fact, in my own State leading members of the State Parliament practically used those words, and, in effect, told me I was a " pro-German," a " Hun," and a disloyalist, because I dared to exercise my right as an Australian citizen to urge that we should not have conscription of Australian manhood. Were the Government afraid that these names might be applied to the soldiers on the battlefield offering their lives for the defence of the Empire and Australia? If I be classed as a pro-German, and dubbed a disloyalist and traitor because I dared to exercise my right of Australian citizenship, the soldier at the front, exercising his right to vote according to his conscience in the same way, could be similarly classed. Those soldiers at the front who voted "No," as I did, must be, according to the gentlemen to whom I have referred, pro-Germans, Huns, and disloyalists.' In" order to clear the atmosphere it would have been as well if the direction of the Anzac vote was made known to the people of Australia. We should have been told exactly what was the opinion of the men at the front on that very important question. I come now to the matter of taxation. I have just received a document issued today, which is stated to be an " Interim Financial Statement by the Honorable Alexander Poynton, M.H.R., Commonwealth Treasurer," and dated 6th December, 1916. I find that the proposals it contains differ considerably from those which were set forth in a Ministerial statement of the 27th September of this year. I notice that there, is to be an alteration in the war profits tax and in the proposal for a wealth levy.  Mr. Poynton,  in announcing these alterations, refers to the Ministerial statement of the 27th September as the proposals of the ex-Treasurer,  Mr. Higgs.  It might be just as well for honorable senators to note that those proposals were not the proposals of the exTreasurer,  Mr. Higgs,  but of the Hughes Government of that day. The Ministerial statement of the 27th September last, outlining the proposed entertainments tax, the wartime profits tax for1915-16  and for 1916- 17, and the proposed 25 per cent, increased income tax, represented the proposals, not of the ex-Treasurer,  Mr. Higgs,  but of the then Hughes Government. The interim financial statement put forward to-day represents the taxation proposals of the present Hughes Government. 
No, the Confusion Government. I want to know why, if on the 27th September, 1916, the Hughes Government thought it right to put before the people certain taxation proposals, it has become necessary to-day for the reconstructed Hughes Government to materially alter those proposals. 
The honorable senator will not be in order in discussing the interim financial statement to  which  he has referred on the motion now before the Senate. He can make only a general reference to it. 
The result of the referendum settles one point, and one point only; that is, that we may not have recourse to compulsion in order to provide reinforcements for oversea service during the war. It does not in any way affect our existing powers under the Defence Act, although it does limit the extent to which these ought to be exercised. ' The referendum does not and cannot affect in any way Australia's obligations to the Empire during this great war. The people, misled by gross misrepresentations, have declined to entrust the Government with the powers asked for. The decision of the people will profoundly affect the future, not only of this young Commonwealth, but of democratic government generally. Certainly this refusal on the part of a free people to make sacrifices to defend their freedom will be used as the proof of the unwisdom of submitting great national issues directly to the people. 
Those were most remarkable words for the right honorable gentleman to use. When certain members of Parliament took the stand that they would not support a referendum on compulsory service overseas, what was the argument which he used? He said, in effect, "You, as Labour men, are going to oppose a principle of the platform of the party which you belong to. You cannot do that and be true Labour men. You cannot have a referendum for one thing, and object to a referendum for another thing."  A  referendum has been taken on, I think, the most important question which could be placed before the people of the Commonwealth, or of any other country, the question of the value of human life, and now this gentleman comes down and says, " It will be a proof of the unwisdom of submitting great national issues directly to the people." If a majority of the people of the Commonwealth had voted "Yes" on the 28th October, would the Prime Minister have made a statement of that kind? I do not think so. It is a most remarkable thing for' any man, be he Prime Minister or a private citizen, to reflect on the vote of the people. 
By men like  Senator Findley,  who opposed the referendum. 
I think that we should be obliged  to  Senator de  Largie for giving us a most interesting account of his trip abroad.  His  little lecture might be appreciated, if he were to go round, and properly advertise it, for the meetings which he will attend by-and-by. It may be very edifying, but the most of it was well known to many of us, who had read the journals and magazines which are sent here every month. I have read, or looked over, most of these publications, and have been acquainted with the conditions in South Africa and Canada for a number of years, but by those persons who, unfor tunately, have not access to the magazines, the honorable senator's little lectures will, in all probability, be gratefully received. 
I do not often enter into family quarrels, but, sitting here the other day, I heard  Senator Needham  make a statement which he repeated to-day, to the effect that  Mr. Hughes,  before he left the Labour party, was given an opportunity to make a statement.  Senator de  Largie denied that. 
The statement appears in the last number of  Hansard.  If the honorable senator will only look it up- 
The honorable senator denied that  Mr. Hughes  had the chance to make a statement before he was arraigned by a motion. I always think it is better to have evidence oil these matters. 
The honorable senator said by way of interjection, ' ' It is untrue." 
I can quite understand that. The best witness I can call is the Right Honorable W. M. Hughes, who made a statement to the Government organ next day. In the  Argus  of the 15th' November,  Mr. Hughes  is reported as having said - 
I was asked to make a statement, bat I said that I would prefer to hear the charge that was brought against me before I said anything. 
The  honorable  senator denied that  Mr. Hughes,  prior to a motion being submitted to that meeting, was asked to make a statement. 
I was here, and listened to what was said. In addition. 
I have since availed myself of the opportunity to read  Hansard.  I do think that these misstatements should be cleared up, and in order to dispel them I have called the witness most interested - the Right Honorable W. M. Hughes. I was wondering what the name of this great political party opposite was going to be. 
Oh, yes; but we always see them. The newspaper which published them is the oldest Labour . paper in Australia, and one with which I had a fairly good connexion at its inception in 1888. From that time onward it has improved its position, and has done remarkably good work. I refer to the Queensland  Worker,  which, as I am reminded by  Senator Findley,  contains a very good cartoon of the christening. 
I was known long before 1888, but I do not blow about it because, if I said that I was known in 1888, or even in 1868, it would merely mean that I am getting up in years. But I was fairly well known in 1888 in connexion with the Labour movement. 
Yes, and that was long before the honorable senator knew much about the movement in Australia. 
So did I. 
No; they were not very remarkable, because  Senator de  Largie was supporting a man who was not a Labour candidate, but who stood in the Liberal interest for the Queensland Parliament. I am referring to  Mr. Thomas  Glassey. I, on the other hand, was supporting one of the first Labour candidates who was returned to that Parliament, who afterwards became a member of the New South Wales Parliament.  Mr. Glassey  was returned as a supporter of  Sir Samuel  Griffith, and not as a Labour man. At that time I was supporting  Mr. James  Johnstone, who afterwards represented Balmain in the New South Wales Parliament.  Mr. Glassey  "ratted" on the Labour party, just as a lot of other people have done. I was naturally interested in the name which would be adopted by my honorable friends opposite, and on turning up the Brisbane  Courier  of the 24th November, I read the following, for the accuracy of which I do not vouch - 

 Senator de Largie, the Whip in the Senate, told the Women's National League to-night, " We have adopted the name of the National Labour Party, because our section of the Labour Party has placed its national views before its' party views." 
I think that that was a most appropriate place to make the announcement. If ever there was an audience before which that declaration should have been made by the Whip of the "National" party, it was before the Women's National League. 
I said that I did not vouch for the accuracy of -the statement, but as it appeared in a Government organ I naturally assumed it to be correct. 
Then, I will give the honorable senator the other newspaper regarding the matter. It says -  
Speaking at the annual congress of the National Council of Women  Senator de  Largie made certain statements. 
That may he. 
The honorable senator said that the Maltese were a mare's nest, but I did not see it. 
I did not say they were coming. But I met friends of mine in the eastern part of New South Wales, around Coffs Harbor, who wanted to know what we were doing, because there were hundreds of Maltese there who were competing with other people for work. I did not deal with that matter, except to speak of the prohibition by the Government of the issue of information regarding the arrival of Maltese in Australia. I repeat that the " National " party is the most appropriate title that my honorable friends opposite could have adopted. It has been in existence in connexion with all the State Parliaments of Australia. We have had some experience of " National " parties in Queensland. Our experience has been that whenever a gang of political brigands has started out with the object of robbing the people, or of throttling whatever liberty they enjoyed, it has called itself the " National " party. The "first party of this kind was created about 1SSS, when quite a number of land-grant railways, starting at Charleville and finishing up at Point Parker, were projected - the greatest land-steal ever contemplated in Australia. I remember the big loaf and the little loaf which were trotted out on that occasion. The big loaf was that which was going to be supplied by the " National " party, and the little loaf was that which would be supplied by the other party. The " Nationalists," who were led by  Sir Thomas  Mcllwraith, did not succeed. Anybody who chooses to turn up the Brisbane  Worker  for 1893 will find printed in it a memorable grid-iron map. It was that journal which was responsible for the first entry into the Queensland Parliament, during that year, of a considerable number of Labour members, including myself. As time went on, this " National " party used occasionally to be indicted. It was in the habit of giving long leases to its friends ; it used to grant mining leases and exemptions against which I have heard you, sir, protest very eloquently. It attempted to obtain a franchise to permit of the use of the water of the Barron Falls for private purposes. All these were the works of the ' ' National ' ' party. It re-introduced black labour into Queensland. Only a few years before, legislation had been enacted which provided that at the end of a certain time the employment of black labour should cease. But the " National " party did not wish it to cease, and, just as honorable members opposite were prepared to have Maltese entering the Commonwealth without anybody knowing of their arrival, so the " National " party was prepared to flood Queensland with kanaka labour. The party also consisted of those who locked up the people's money in 1893. Even to-, day many depositors have not yet received their money back, although they hope to get it in course of time. But their action caused ruin to thousands of workers who had previously been on a very good wicket indeed. It was the "National" party that sent men down to St. Helena for long terms of imprisonment during an industrial dispute in Queensland. It was that party which sent George Taylor there for three years.- Later he went to Western Australia, entered the Parliament of that State, and became a Minister of the Crown. Why was he imprisoned at St. Helena ? Merely for endeavouring to improve the conditions of the men amongst whom he worked. It was members of the "National" party  who  not only sentenced these men to terms of imprisonment,  but  who held out a bribe to them by saying, " Only admit that you were guilty of a crime, and we will let you out." The "National" party again were beaten, because the men declined to plead guilty to crimes for the sake of getting out, and preferred to do their time. They said, "No, we came here because we were endeavouring to do good work, and we are in the van of reform." One o'f them went into the Western Australian Parliament, and another into the Queensland Parliament. He is there yet - a credit to the people who were putting up a fight at that time against the so-called "National" party. That was the party which a little while afterwards brought into existence one of the most tyrannical Coercion Acts in existence in any part of Australia. 
It was worse than the Irvine Coercion Act, because one of its provisions was that a man going along the road could be arrested at any time en suspicion. All that a mounted constable had to do was to tie him to his stirrup-iron and walk him along, if necessary, to the nearest town. That could not be done in Victoria under the Irvine Act. Under the Queensland! Coercion Act, if the police found a man asleep on the side of the road, or at a waterhole, they could search him to decide whether he was "loyal," as they termed it, or not. If they decided that he was not he could be taken away. A man could also be arrested without warrant and kept in prison just as long as was deemed necessary. This was the work of the " National " Government in that State. I suppose we may expect something similar when we get a " National " Government in Federal politics. Those were the people who not only attempted to use the ballot-box improperly, but used intimidation of every description. They practically refused votes to people. They made one most peculiar proposal. They wanted to give every man reputed to be the father of two children an extra vote. That was a " National " Government proposal. I do not know whether we are to get a proposal like that from this " National " Government, but on that occasion it was laughed out throughout the length and breadth of Queensland. 
No ; the woman who bore the children was not to get a vote at all, but the man who was reputed to be the father was to have two votes. The " National " Government at that time used also to " rig " elections. I have known them to knock off public works with the idea of compelling men to leave a district, so that they would not be able to record their votes at election time. I do not know whether this 
National " Government will do the same, but I shall not be greatly surprised if they do. 

 Senator- TURLEY. - There may be an election coming on. In Queensland men were compelled to travel, with the result that they were not able to record their votes. The present electoral law enables men to record their votes even if they are away, but the law at that time did not. Public servants were also transferred if it were believed that they were likely to get a position in Parliament. If the supporters of the present Government doubt that statement, let them ask their factotum in Queensland, Peter Airey, the man who is doing the underground work for them at present in connexion with some of the little things they have on. I knew him when he was a teacher. At that time he was transferred because it -was believed, I think rightly, that he was likely to find a place in the Queensland Parliament. The Labour party afterwards handed  Mr. Peter  Airey a seat in Parliament on the shovel, and he "scabbed" on them at the first  opportunity. I have known these people to hold up election Courts so that claims for votes which they had floating around the country could be got in. I have known them regard with satisfaction the thousands of men that were thrown out of employment after every election. They did nothing to prevent intimidation. Intimidation at the ballotbox did not come from the Government, as it does now. In those days it came from the employer, who regularly circulated the statement, " We shall know how you vote," amongst his employees. In the north, as you know, sir, hundreds of men after every election were sent about their business because the employer carried his threat into practice, and numbers of men had to sacrifice themselves because they stuck to the Labour movement. There is hardly a franchise in Queensland to-day relating to gas, tramways, or other public utilities that has not been granted by a " National " Government. The name " National " is to be 'found in every organization which has been opposed for many years to any advance, economical or industrial. We have the " National " Liberal party in Queensland. We had the National Progressive League in Queensland, and we have the Women's National League and the National Political Council. In New South Wales we have the " National " party of Holman, Wade, Beeby, and company, and last, but not least, we have in Victoria an organization on which  Senator Pearce  used to pour ridicule a little whole ago - Packer's " National " Organization of Working Men. A new  ' National ' ' Government has now come into Federal politics, and I believe it is going to be just as big a disaster, as far as concerns the liberties of the people of Australia, as the State " National " parties were in State politics, because I find from the press that exactly the same people are behind the Federal " National" Government as were behind the State "National" Governments. In the first place, they have the support of the Employers Federation. It must be a strange thing for some of those gentlemen to know that they have the support of that body. They are supported also by the Pastoralists Association, which, T hope, is going to induce them to carry out, if they can, the policy which it has been advocating for many years. That was the association which made it almost impossible for a man to earn a living in the western parts of Queensland. Our friends talk about loyalty. You, sir, remember the time when those people employed men under dreadful conditions in that State. They used to issue to the men who did their best to break up the Labour movement, tickets which they called " loyalty tickets." On one occasion the  Speaker  of another place and myself, when out electioneering, were riding across some of the wide plains of the west on bicycles, and picked up a little bag of the kind carried by most bushmen. It contained a number of papers, and we decided to take it to the secretary of the Shearers "Union. When he examined it he found a piece of blue paper which he immediately threw down, saying, " I shall not have anything to do with it. That is a loyalty ticket issued by the members of the Pastoralists Association to those who have scabbed on Labour around this district." Is that the sort of loyalty that the members of the Government party axe after to-day ? Do they want to break up the organizations which practically made them, and made it possible for them to occupy their present positions ? That is the sort of thing that is appealing to the workers outside. I do not know whether they are appealing to the workers in Western Australia, but the workers in the eastern portion of Australia are thinking, and it will not be long before the workers of the West begin to think practically on similar lines. The "National" party have the support, also, of the stock exchanges of Australia and of the incorporated law institutes in the various States, which I do not think they ever had before. I have heard some of the members on the Government side throw out jibes against that learned profession which to-day is nearly all behind them. They have the support, also, of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company, which they have denounced year in and year out. That company was more responsible than any other body for the attempt to retain black labour in Australia. They have behind them the Beef Trust of Australia, if there is such a thing, because we know perfectly well that the organizations which make such institutions will always get behind " National " Governments while they are in existence. They have behind them to-day the farmers unions of Australia. I could get the resolutions, and quote them wholesale, passed from one end of Australia to the other by those bodies, the members of which are to-day refusing to give reasonable conditions to the men whom they employ. 
They may not have been brought under the honorable senator's notice, but they have been brought under the notice of many of us. The honorable senator has only to look at the papers to see them. Only the other day the Farmers Union in Tasmania threw themselves behind the "National" Government, and at the same time declared against the conditions of employment demanded by the rural workers. Those are the people behind the great " National " Government of twenty-six distributed in two Houses, although, I suppose, they hope to grow to something more. 
I did not bring the resolutions, because every one knows they have been passed. Some one will produce them, later on for  Senator Pearce's  benefit. I hope that will be done, because he will .then know those whom he is now representing. They are not the men whom he represented prior to a few weeks ago. Up till that time he represented the men who were doing the work, the men- who were asking for improved conditions, the men who want to make this country a better one to live in.  Senator Pearce  cannot claim that he is representing those men now. On the other hand, he is representing those who all along have not been interested in the improvement of working conditions for our people, and who have always endeavoured to obtain labour as cheaply as possible. 
Yes, it is. Only the other day, we were informed that an organization had been formed in Melbourne to get the Right Honorable W. M. Hughes to stand for the constituency of Fawkner. Can it be said that the prime mover in that new organization is  a.  Labour man  1  These are the men who are now supporting the " National " Government, and it is just as well that the people of this country should know what the real position is. I do not envy the Government the name that has been adopted for their party. The name is -quite an appropriate one, but I do think that this new " National " party will go the way of all "National" parties. 
It stands by itself. 
I understand that the majority of the local governing bodies are behind the Government, and this new " National " party to-day. Those are the people who deluged this Chamber with correspondence on the occasion when members had before them the question of increased salaries. They were opposed to  Senator Pearce  then, but to-day they are all behind this "National " party, strange though it may seem.  Senator de  Largie has told us that this party is going to grow. Such a party might grow for a little while, But eventually it will become extinct. Still there may be something in what  Senator de  Largie says. It is quite possible that the party will grow so long as its members are prepared to say, "Yes,  Mr. Cook,"  on all occasions. That is the only possible condition upon which the party can live, let alone grow. For the moment, I regret that I did not bring with me a pamphlet prepared a few years ago by some members of this new "National " party, because that pamphlet showed  Mr. Cook  in every possible political condition. It showed him as the one-time Republican, as the one-time land taxer, as the one-time Free Trader, and the one-time Labour -man. I am glad that I am in possession of the pamphlet, because it may be necessary to use it again by-and-by, though instead of applying to  Mr. Cook  only, it will be equally applicable to the gentlemen whom  Mr. Cook  will keep in office, because, as every one knows, it would be impossible not only for the Government not to grow, but even to live, if its members were not prepared to feed out of the hand of the man they have denounced in years gone by from Cape York to the Leeuwin. I would like now to say a few words with regard to the regulation to which  Senator Gardiner,  as Leader of our paTty in the Senate, referred at some length.  Mr. Hughes  has denied the issue of any regulation which was calculated to intimidate electors on the day of the referendum poll. It is probable that  Mr. Hughes  is quite right technically, because I do not think that the regulation  was actually issued, if by issuing is implied the publication of the particular regulation in the  Government- Gazette.  I do not believe that that was done. 
Yes, I believe the regulation was passed, but it was not issued to the public because it was one of those acts which the responsible person would like to hide. It certainly was not something which a person would care to " blow " about. I have a copy of the regulation. It is a document which I will cherish because it is well worth preserving by men who have been connected with the Labour movement for any length of time and who desire still to retain membership." 
The regulation is in  Hansard  already, because the Leader of the Labour party in the other House read it, consequently it has been published in  Hansard.  I notice there appears to be a difference of opinion between  Mr. Hughes  and  Senator de  Largie on the subject of this regulation, because while  Mr. Hughes  says it was never issued,  Senator de  hargie  assures us that it was withdrawn. 
And  Senator Millen  said, "Make no mistake about it, it was acted upon." 
And yet the Prime Minister has told us that they were never issued*- 
The. driving force of the Labour  movement  has not been compulsion, but inspiration. To enforce the people to enroll was a most indifferent substitute for the enthusiasm which led many to walk 60 miles to vote. The movement has been propelled by men who regarded no price as too high nor sacrifice too great to record their votes. 
He was right. That was the driving force of the Labour movement. But when the electors got to the ballot-box to record their votes, were they supposed to be met with the question by the  returning  officer, " Have you used Pear's soap " ? That is what is being proposed to-day. The ballot-box is to be used to know whether a man has been guilty of breaking the law. If it can be used in connexion with a breach of the Defence law, there is no reason why it cannot be used in connexion with the breach of any other law. Why not ask  Senator Bakhap,  the next time he goes to record his vote, whether he has ceased beating his wife yet, and demand from him an answer to the question before he is allowed to vote; or make him go before a tribunal and prove . to the satisfaction of two magistrates that he has ceased beating his wife? There is no limit to the forms in which this proposal might be applied. Now what was the regulation that was promulgated ? 
All such ballot-papers shall, subject to these regulations, be dealt -with in the same manner as ballot-papers indorsed with the words " section 9." 
Provided that for the purpose of this regulation - 
"The prescribed envelope" means an envelope similar to that prescribed for the purpose of section 9 of the Military Service Referendum- Act 1916, but with the word " Proclamation " or the abbreviation "  Proc."  written or stamped thereon, and if the vote has not been challenged under section 9 of that Act the words "Section 9" shall be struck out; and 
the tribunal shall have jurisdiction to determine, in the case of an envelope bearing the word " Proclamation " or the abbreviation "  Proc."  whether the elector has wilfully failed to comply with the proclamation. (Any such wilful failure shall be deemed disloyalty.) 
I see a lot of loyal gentlemen opposite, and I am reminded of the loyalty ticket that used to be issued by the Pastoralists Association. I do not know whether  Senator Lynch  ever carried one or not, but they were great things, and let me say that no one in Australia to-day would be game to frame one of those tickets, and hang it up in his house. The holders of those tickets were men whom  Senator de  Largie would be ashamed of knowing at .that time. The regulation continues - 
Any person who refuses or fails to answer any question put to him under these regulations, or who makes an untrue statement, in any answer to any such question, shall be guilty of an offence against the War Precautions Act 1914-16. 
That is the way in which the votes of men were to be dealt with. I want to know what confidence the public can have in men who have used the power reposed in them to use the ballot-box for a purpose like that. Paney proposing to put a question whereby a man shall incriminate himself in respect of a violation of the law without going into a Court of justice at all ! Why, no criminal brought before a Court is expected to do that in any circumstances. He may not be asked a question to compel him to incriminate himself in a Court of law, and yet the average worker of Australia between the ages of twenty-one and thirty-five years, when he went to perform an act of citizenship, was to be asked those questions. 
Assuming that the Prime Minister did everything that had been said against him, was there anything in these questions against the sanctity, the secrecy, or the freedom of the ballot? 
Everybody knows that there was. I have met numbers of men who knew very well that there was. Many of them, I suppose, have been asked to go before a Court to prove their loyalty if they went to vote at all, and it was not a matter which they could get out of very easily. 
If he were Prime Minister, and felt inclined to do this thing, he would have gone through with it, and it would not have been any injury to the democratic system of voting they were now operating. 
But  Mr. Watt  went further. He said - 
What the Prime Minister apparently contemplated, or what  Mr. Hughes  believed had been issued, were instructions to electoral officers that they should ask questions of certain persons presenting themselves at the booths. The proper thing to do, and what he himself would have preferred to do, was to let the military authorities place soldiers near the booths to ask men whose appearance suggested that they came within the proclamation if they had responded to the call, and to have those who had disobeyed prosecuted for disobedience of the law. 
That is the Liberal party's programme. They would not have prostituted the ballotbox. They would have taken a number of ' military men, and put them close to the booths, so that if a corporal or sergeant thought that a man was between the ages of twenty-one and thirty-five he could pick him up, take him away, and have him prosecuted. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.S0 to 8 p.m. 

It contains a considerable number of Germans who came across from other settlements which they had established some years before. The most .peculiar thing about that settlement is that it recorded a " Yes " majority in spite of the fact that the Minister for Defence sneers at it as a German settlement. Let me quote again the Government organ, the Melbourne  Argus.  I call it that because many of us have in the past associated it with the Liberal party only, but in the future we shall have to regard it as the organ of the "National" party. The following appeared in its issue of 15th November : - 
Shepparton, Tuesday. - Messrs. F. W. Fair and C- Palling, J.P.'s, sat this morning as a tribunal under section 9 of the Military Service Referendum Act to determine whether certain voters whose votes were marked by the presiding officers on 28th October were or were not loyal. Edward Charles  Borghese,  orchardist and farmer, No. 2 Shepparton Closer Settlement, stated that he was born in France of British parents, who were married by a Church of .England clergyman. Senior Constable W. J. Corry, who appeared for the police, stated that  Mr.  Borghese  had a document signed by the Governor-General of .South. Africa acknowledging valuable services rendered by him about 18 months ago in the British advance in German East Africa.  Mrs. Janet  Smith, of Shepparton, said that she was born in Victoria, her parents being Scotch. The Bench remarked that a mistake had been made in this case, and the police concurred, it being evident that the wrong woman had been summoned to appear. Stanley Oswald Jaques, orchardist, No. 1 Shepparton Closer Settlement, said that he was born in Australia.  His  mother was an Australian, while his father was born in .England. 
It does not seem to matter whether you or your parents were born in England or anywhere else. If the presiding officer thinks your name is not exactly correct you become a number niner. 
Charles Wilson, carpenter, a Norwegian;' Charles Gustaf  Collander,  of No. 2 Shepparton Closer Settlement, a Russian Finn; Ludwig  Truisen  Valle, carpenter, a Norwegian, for 40 years a resident in Australia; three Frenchmen who are well-known residents; and others, including a Chinese fruiterer, were also called, and no objection was taken to any of them. In the case of Phillip Miller, coachbuilder, who was born at FrankfortontheMain,  Mr. W.  McLure Abernethy, who appeared for Miller, said that his client had never at any time uttered or done anything disloyal. He bad subscribed to the war loan and to funds for patriotic purposes. No objection was taken in this and in the other cases heard. 
The following letter appeared in the same paper - 

 Sir, - I am a British subject, born in London of an English mother and a father (now dead) who left Germany in his childhood. I am a colonist of 29 years, most of the time spent in Victoria as a farmer, yet I am first insulted in the polling-booth, and now I receive an insulting notice to show cause in a Court of Petty Sessions as though I was an enemy or a rebel. I have a brother an officer in the military camp in Sydney, and my wife (born in South Melbourne) has a brother in the firing line in France. She was treated in a like manner to me. We boast of the freedom and liberty of our institutions. Is this not in danger of becoming just a mock phrase? - Yours, &amp;c, 
Yes, under misrepresentation from the honorable senator. 
I am quite willing to state my position if the honorable senator cares to state his own. Another case from the  Daily Standard  of 16th November - not a Government organ - is as follows :  - 
The honorable senator can sneer as much as he likes, but in those districts there are people who are better Australians, in my opinion, than the honorable senator himself. T shall tell him that, although many of them have given sons to the war, the Minister sneers at them when it becomes a question of going up to exercise their citizen rights. The district of Pittsworth voted " Yes" by a very big majority. I suppose the Minister for Defence is put out because it gave a majority of over 100 for " Yes." 
I am not sure when they were counted. 
When is the honorable senator going to do some more gymnastic tricks up and down the other side of the chamber? We want to hear him cooeeing again. One paper said the honorable senator could be heard in Victoriaparade the other day when addressing a meeting at the Trades Hall. Here is a specimen of the notices issued - 
Commonwealth of Australia. 
The Military Service Referendum Act 1916. 
Notification to a person whose ballot-paper has been indorsed " Section 9 " under the provision of the Military Service Referendum Act 1916. 
To Hilda Fanny Rachel Schoenheimer, 
Lytton-road and Heath-street, 
Woolloongabba. 
You are hereby notified thatyou will be afforded  an  opportunity of showing cause to two of His Majesty's Justices of the Peace, sitting as a prescribed tribunal under the Military Service Referendum Act 1916, why the vote recorded by you at the referendum held under the provisions of the said Act should not be rejected on the ground that you are disloyal. 
You may, if you so desire, appear before the said tribunal at the Council Chambers of South Brisbane on the 15th day of November, 1916, at the hour of ten o'clock in the forenoon, to show cause as aforesaid, or forward for consideration a statutory declaration as to any facts relevant to the question before the tribunal so as to reach it before the time abovementioned at the place aforesaid. 
Senior Police Officer of South Brisbane. 6th November, 1916. 
This lady is the daughter of a man who was born in Germany, and. has been naturalized in Australia for many years. I never heard a word against him as a citizen. His son had been at the front for seventeen months. He did not claim his right to vote, because he said he felt so disgusted that he would not "take it on." This section was used to chase scores of people away from the ballot-box. 
Our friends do not mind the support of all the Germans they can get. I met this man in Brisbane the day before I left. He happened to have this paper in his pocket, and told me he was going to frame it. His son, as I have said, had been at the front for seventeen months, and the boy's sister, who, likewise, was born in Australia, was also told to go up and prove her loyalty. He was so disgusted with the whole thing that he advised her to have nothing more to do with it, so this young woman, an Australian born, and with not a solitary word against her loyalty, had her vote disallowed on the ground of disloyalty. 
I do not know, but I would like to know how many are in the Government party. The honorable senator is prepared to have the assistance of any Germans to keep him in his present position. It is only about twelve or eighteen months ago that I heard  Senator Pearce  in this chamber become righteously indignant in his denial of some unscrupulous scoundrel, as he said, who had gone about the country declaring that his wife was a German.  Senator Pearce  was quite right to be indignant concerning a rumour of that kind, but I would remind him' that there are other people with relatives. I want to know why my daughter was branded in this way when she went to record her vote on 28th October. I was astounded on the Saturday evening when I heard of the incident. She has been married for about fifteen months, and when she went to record her vote she was properly indignant at having her vote enclosed in an envelope, instead of being allowed to deposit it in the ballot-box. She said to me, ' ' What does this mean ? I have never been treated in this way before." I tried to explain the position to her. Naturally she was very much put out, and she asked me what she should do. In reply, I said, " The best thing you can do, if you do not wish to appear at the Court-, is to send in a statement when you receive the notice regarding the appeal." She followed my advice, and forwarded the following statement to the Court: - 
Laidlaw-parade, 
East Brisbane. 

 Sir,- Your favour of the 6th, calling on me to show cause why the vote recorded by me at the polling booth at Mowbray Park on October 28th should not be rejected, on the ground of my disloyalty, is to hand. It is hard to know how to prove one's loyalty except through one's birthplace and one's associations. I was born at Raymond-terrace, South Brisbane. I am the daughter of  Mr. and Mrs. Henry  Turley, who both advise me that they were - born in the county of Gloucester, England, and whose forefathers, as far as they know of, or have heard, were also born in that country. At the time of my birth my father was one of the members for Brisbane South in the Legislative Assembly of Queensland, and at present is a member of the Senate of the Federal Parliament, having been elected by the electors of Queensland to represent them. 
Ihave never been outside Australia. I have no known relatives, acquaintances, or friends in any enemy country, nor have I communicated with any person in any enemy country. 
I was married on October 28th, 1915, to  Mr. Martin  WilliamRumpf, who is one of the second generation of Queensland-born natives of this family. If this action constitutes disloyalty in the opinion of the Bench, I must abide by the verdict, otherwise I know of no other reason why my loyalty to my native country and to the British Empire should be questioned. 
I make this declaration believing the statement to be true and subject to the Oaths Act of Queensland. 
Yes, what about the war? "Never mind the prostitution of the ballot-box," says the honorable senator, but "what about the war?" Never mind the fact that the Government by their action drove hundreds of people away from the polling booths, and prevented them from exercising their citizenship rights. "What about the war ?" he asks. 
I venture to say that no member of the Senate believed for a moment that the legislation referred to would have been administered in the manner that it has been by the Government. It appears that it did not matter whether the people affected by the regulation were natives of Australia or natives of" allied countries. So long as it was thought that they would vote against the enslavement of the workers of this country they were not to be allowed to vote. 
I am quite satisfied to hold my own opinion, and I am not going to take any notice of the honorable senator. If I had intended to do that, I would have taken notice of him when he was prancing up and 'down on the other side of the chamber. No member of this Senate, or at least no member of the party to which I belong - and I believe I can alsoinclude some members of the Liberal party - dreamed for a moment when they passed the Act referred to that it would be administered in such a manner as toplace obstacles in the way of people recording their votes. The young man and his wife to whom I have referred had to vote under section 9, and to appear before the Court. On the bench were two magistrates, one of whom knew the man, and when the case was called upon his colleague asked, " What about this case?" The other magistrate laughed, and said, "Disloyalty! I do not know the reason for this action. I have known these people ever since they were so high, and there can be no question of disloyalty regarding them." In the case of my daughter, the letter which she sent to the Bench was not Tead right through. As soon as the Court official started to read it the magistrate interrupted with the remark, " There is no question of disloyalty here." At the same time, however, an indignity was put upon her, as also upon a number of other people in Australia, and that indignity will never be forgotten. I want now to say something concerning this new recruiting campaign. 
Oh ! the honorable senator need not worry. I am coming along quietly. I want to correct a misstatement made by the Minister concerning this campaign. When  Senator Millen  was speaking the other day - his statement appears on page 9267 of  Hansard  - he said - 
If there is no alternative it is far better to tell the people plainly than to go on trying to fool them with the idea that effective measures are in operation to insure success with the scheme. 
What is quite clear? 
Let me remind the Minister of the statement which appears in the paper laid on the table concerning this scheme - 
It seems hopeless- 
The scheme itself appears to be recommended in a spirit of hopelessness - to expect that we can by the voluntary enlistment raise 16,500 men per month; but we propose to do the utmost that voluntary enlistment is capable of. 
It may be, as  Senator Lynch  has suggested, that the only thing to do at present is to go ahead with this proposal; but I do say it is a tremendous responsibility to allow the people to think for a moment that it will meet the difficulty. 
The interjection by the Minister was quite inaccurate. No members of this party have said that they could make the voluntary system such a success as to produce 16,500 men a month, although we have the interjection by the Minister to that effect. It is not right that such a statement should go out without contradiction, because if we do not challenge the interjection the people will believe that it is true. 
I should like the honorable senator to make it clear whether his objection is against the scheme itself, or that he thinks the scheme will prove insufficient because the present Government, are in office. 
Does the honorable senator mean that if we had another Government we should be able to get the required number of reinforcements ? 
There is another difference, and it is that the honorable senator could not speak too highly of the last Government. 
The honorable senator's most eloquent speeches are represented by the appearance of his name in division lists in support of the Government. 
Does the honorable senator not think that, when a man has been kicked out, it is rather rubbing it in to say that he left of his own accord? 
It is perfectly plain that there is in this country a number of persons who are opposed to this war, who are against the Empire, and who will do all they can to prevent Australia doing her duty as a part of the Empire. The effect of the referendum has been to encourage them to advocate openly what they previously advocated in secret. The strikes and upheavals, political and industrial, we see around us, are the manifestations of a deliberate policy by which they aim at destroying society as it now exists. Those upheavals are the work of men who, calling themselves by many names or by no name, are, in effect, anarchists; and assisting them, for their own purposes, are certain sections who are, as I have said, against the Empire. This is the situation with which Australia is faced. 
I want to deal with that. We are told that all the industrial and political upheavals we see around us are the work of anarchists. Does this apply to the coal miners who have just gone back to work - to the thousands of men in the coal industry who came out of the northern, southern, and western mining fields of New South Wales? Does it apply to the men who came out of the coal mines of Queensland and to the men who came out of Wonthaggi? Honorable senators opposite evidently think that it is all right because the men at Collie did not come out; because they remained in whilst all the miners engaged in the industry in the eastern States did come out. It applies to every man who finds that he is not working under congenial conditions in any industry. It applies to all the unionists in Australia who are demanding better conditions even though this may be a time of war. It applies to the men on our coasts who have already submitted for consideration a new log. It applies to the men working in our, rural industries who are asking for fair conditions. They are all branded by the Right Honorable W. M. Hughes as anarchists and enemies of the Empire, because they dared at a tim'e like this to ask for some consideration from an economic stand-point. 
There appears to have been quite a number of respectable citizens there. 
Whilst they regretted the result of the referendum, one of the most regrettable features was that, while there was not the slightest doubt that there had been the vote to which the Prime Minister referred, there had been another vote also - the vote of those who put their selfish business interests and property interests before the interests of the nation. (Cheers.) If they analyzed "the voting closely, and took the country electorates and some of the town electorates, they would see the selfishness that put self-interest in business, farm and dairy, before the interests of the country. That selfish disloyalty was the worst disloyalty of all. 
These are the people to whom we are being asked to go to-day in order that we may invite them to enlist in the army of Australia to protect this country and the Empire. I have said that I am prepared to . do my share. I intend to ask those to whom I am going to appeal to do what they can in the present crisis, and afterwards, to deal with those who have practically sold them as though they were bullocks in the market. That is the position which I intend to occupy regarding this matter. There is another reason why the Government are asking that we should go out and do all this work, and it comes from  Senator Lynch.  According to another Government organ, the  Age,  of the 28th November last, at Warracknabeal,  Senator Lynch  - dealt trenchantly with the opponents of national service at the referendum. The party to which he belonged was sustained by the patriotic vote recorded, and would use its best endeavour to right the wrong done by men who had the truth in their hearts while the lie was on their lips. 
These are the men to whom the honorable senator and his colleagues now say, " Go out and try to get us out of this hole if you possibly can " - the men with the lie on their lips and the truth in their hearts. Do not the Government in the statement which is under consideration now, does not even the Minister for Defence in the statement which I read out, practically make that deposition? I am prepared to do what I can in this regard; t&gt;ut I do not want my attitude to be misunderstood or misrepresented afterwards. 
 I think that the record of the Ministry which I have the honour to lead is one which has earned the commendations of a very large section of the people. of Australia; and along the lines of that policy we intend to proceed. We believe that the bulk of the" people of Australia desire such a policy, and so long as we are permitted to give effect to it we shall carry on. 
 When we find that to be impossible, we shall appeal to the people. (Loud cheers.) And we shall appeal to the people in such a way that not a section of the Parliament, but the whole Parliament, will come before them. 
I, for one, will give to Ministers all the assistance I possibly can to get to the people at the earliest possible opportunity. 
.- I do not intend to speak at any great length on this motion,becauseI feel that honorable senators have already well nigh exhausted what has to be said. I congratulate  Senator Turley  on the excellent address which he has delivered. I would not care to allow the opportunity to pass without making my position clear, and without striking a note in regard to the existing situation as it appeals to my mind. The present Government cannot possibly assert themselves as a governing force in this Parliament. They must necessarily depend upon those who are in disagreement with their policy, and confine themselves to one matter only, and that is the prosecution of the war. In that regard, there can be no dissension, nor can a dissentient voice on that subject be heard in this chamber. 
Notwithstanding all that has been said by advocates of conscription, the fact remains that there has yet to be found in the Senate, or the other pla'ce, one man who has by word or inference shown that he was callous or indifferent to the prosecution of the war. 
I am not prepared now to analyze any statements which have been made, but I have never heard or read in  Hansard  any speeches delivered here which would lead me to believe that any honorable senator was indifferent to the prosecution of the war, or was prepared to cease hostilities against our common enemy. Otherwise I would consider that this Parliament should make every effort to have that honorable senator removed from the precincts of the chamber. I take up that position definitely, and say that all that has been pitted against honorable senators has been uttered in a spirit of hostility and bitterness, and with political purposes in view. That being so, we have to consider our position in the circumstances in which we are placed. As one who has been interested in the recruiting system from the very commencement, I say that the present Ministry alone are responsible for the position which has been created in regard to our part in the war. Up to the time when  Mr. Hughes  arrived in Australia, there was not the slightest jarring note in connexion with the work that was being done. The members of both parties were identified with the one object of prosecuting the war, and we stood side by side on the same platforms throughout the country. There was a harmonious note, and recruits were rallying to the standard. Right up to the end of December last, we had shown our recruiting system to be equalto every demand. During the three months ending September last, we had enlisted over 21,000 recruits, whereas our casualties for the same period were given as 26,500, and we were told that out of that number 9,500 had returned to the firing line, having been slightly wounded. 
That statement was made by  Mr. Finlayson. 
It was given as a statement which had been received officially. 
I shall be obliged to the Minister if he will make any correction which is needed. I believe that statement to be true. 
Up to the end of September last, the casualties for the whole period of the war were 68,403. 
The statement has been made that, for the three months ending September last, the casualties numbered 26,500. The enlistments during that period numbered 21,000. As it was only necessary to supply the gaps caused by 17,000 casualties, we thus had a surplus above the number required for reinforcements. These figures, it must be remembered, relate to the worst period of the war when our losses were heavier than they were at any other period. I say that the bitterness and malice imported into the conscription controversy during those three months mitigated the success that would otherwise have attended our efforts under the voluntary system. When we despatched our first troops overseas we did nothing more than pledge ourselves to assist the Mother Country. 
Whatever obligation may have subsequently been stated was due to the fact that greater success had attended our efforts than had ever been anticipated. Whatever promises were afterwards made arose from the circumstance that we had a certain number of men upon whom we could draw. The Prime Minister, by pledging Australia to supply an additional 50,000 men, created a position which rendered it impossible for us to redeem his promise. The demand for reinforcements to the extent of 16,500 monthly came as a shock to everybody who was zealously engaged in recruiting. Nobody ever dreamed that we could furnish that number of men. Nor has it been shown by the Prime Minister, or by anybody else, that there is any need for us to do so. Personally, I never could see why it was necessary for us to supply 16,500 reinforcements monthly for an army of 100,000, especially as one division of that army has not yet taken the field. We know now that the proposal emanated from the Imperial Army Council, which, naturally, is imbued with the idea of securing as many men as possible. The referendum has shown that the people of Australia will not submit to compulsion in regard to- any service that they may render the Empire in this titanic struggle. As the result of the popular vote, anti-conscriptionists have had to bear the odium of being designated pro-Germans, and of having applied to them all the epithets enumerated by  Senator Turley.  We have had to forfeit the sympathy of many friends who have stood loyally by us throughout our political careers. I am happy to think that much of the bitterness which has been engendered by the struggle will soon pass away. That is one of the bright spots in our political life. But the difficulty which has been created is a serious one. We have had to show the people how Australia stands from the view-point of numbers and territory in relation to the British Empire and to other Dominions. Now we have to make a whole-hearted appeal to men to volunteer for service at the front. Our position has been made very difficult for us by our opponents. In my judgment, the true a patriot will be the man who refused to fs advocate a policy of conscription, but who :&lt;j is yet prepared to appeal to the people to " voluntarily offer themselves for service. Personally, I am prepared to play my part now, as formerly. No action on the part of any Government could diminish my love for my country, or my desire to successfully prosecute the war against the foe we are fighting. Whatever has been done during the recent political crisis will not in any way affect my position in regard to the prosecution of the war. I yield to no man in my love of country and to the Empire to which I belong. I trust that a great deal of the heat which has been engendered in consequence of the conscription controversy will quickly disappear. Some reference has been made to the industrial strife which occurred during this critical period, and a great deal has been said concerning the coal miners who demanded an eight-hours' day from bank to bank. As one who represents -that great constituency of workers, I feel that a good deal of misrepresentation has arisen, and much calumny and bitterness have been evoked, by our friends opposite towards these toilers, who merely took up a position which had been forced upon them owing to the difficulties of their calling. The Government are vested with every power requisite for the maintenance of the industrial life of this country, and must, therefore, bear a large share of the responsibility for the cessation of work which occurred for a whole month. A full month was allowed to elapse notwithstanding that the Government had power to command the coal-owners to open their mines and to keep them open pending a final settlement of the difficulty. Had the Government exercised the sovereign power which they possess they would have conferred a great boon on the people of Australia. Here we are on the eve of Christmas, and as a result of the Ministry's inaction a big cloud will naturally hang over us during the holidays, and for many months to come. I am aware that the miners have been chiefly blamed for the position in which we recently found ourselves. But for twenty years they have been vainly endeavouring to obtain redress. They have appealed to the State and Federal Governments, and they have used the weapon of the strike in their determination to enforce the eight-hours principle. The worst part of the day's work, in many instances, consisted in getting to and from the scene of their labours. Many of them had to walk in low workings for long distances besides having to work in a most unhealthy atmosphere. If the workings of a' mine were 3 or 4 miles distant from the pit's mouth, the men had to walk that distance to their work, so that it will be seen that their disability was one which increased year by year. I repeat that a crisis having arisen in the coal mining industry, the Government should have exercised their powers rather than have allowed a judicial authority to intervene in the way that they did. 
As I have already said, the men have been agitating this question for twenty years. It was known to the Government and to the people of this country that they were subjected to .these hardships, and that they were working under conditions which ought not to be tolerated by a civilized community. In these circumstances, the miners had a right to the protection of the Legislature. It was most unfortunate that Parliament was not sitting when the strike occurred, otherwise I do not think that it would have countenanced the holding up of an industry by the colliery proprietors, whose only purpose was to increase their profits. They should have been compelled to open their mines and to allow the men to work under reasonable conditions. It has been suggested that the Government might have resumed the mines. There is abundant precedent for this. We know that in the Old Country the mines have been commandeered for the public good, and the Commonwealth Government would have been justified in following a similar course to insure the public weal and safety. The miners having created a certain position, and having had conceded to them what they demanded, the incident ends there so far as they are concerned. 
Undoubtedly the Prime Minister had it within his power to do exactly what, after the commencement of the strike, was done by Judge Edmunds. 
Whether the mines are in the possession of the Government or private individuals, unless they are worked under fair conditions that will give the worker that to which he is justly entitled, you will never have peace. 
The same thing would happen if their claims were just. The miners have never refused arbitration; their difficulty was to obtain it, but they never had the .opportunity. When these stoppages occur, there seems to be nothing but consternation in our Arbitration Courts. When you appeal to them, a promise is made that if you go back to work a Court will be established, whereas the Court ought to be in working order. When weaknesses are made known, there should be some way of appeal and some remedy for the evil. 
On every occasion when we have had a deputation to the Government, we have had an open admission that they considered the miners' claims to eight hours perfectly justified. 

 - Mr. Hughes has repeatedly said that eight hours from bank to bank was a fair day's work for any man. 
I believe so. 
I am not going to accuse the Prime Minister of being out of sympathy with the principle itself, but I accuse the Government of lethargy, and assert that they have lost a golden opportunity. With the Prime Minister it was a case of not being in a position to assert himself. That is what caused us to wait a month to get justice. In crises of this kind, the Government should be the sole arbiter, and should have determined the issue.  Mr. Hughes  knew perfectly well that what the men were asking for was just and equitable. It was simply that he did not want to act, but preferred to allow an Arbitration Court Judge to decide the matter for him. That would have' been all right if the industries of the country were not being held up. 
That was a glaring inconsistency on their part. They were perfectly within their rights in commandeering the coal, but it was equally within their power to commandeer the mines. If they had done that, it would have, been one of the greatest lessons that could have been taught to the proprietors of industries. During the big strike of 1909-10, when the miners tried to,, work some mines to save their women and children from starvation, the Government commandeered the coal they produced, paying them only a nominal price for it, although they could have got in the open market four or five times as much, proving conclusively that in any crisis in which the public interest is involved the Government have the power to intervene, and ought to exercise it for the benefit of the public. 
The Government knew perfectly well that these men were being unjustly treated. There is no man in the present Ministry who was not conversant with the justice of the claim of the miners. If a vote of the people had been taken on the question, apart from the strike, or the cessation of work that had taken place, they would have agreed by a large majority that the miners' work begins when he leaves the bright sunshine and enters the darksome mine, and not after he has travelled for an hour, to reach the face in such a state of perspiration and ' exhaustion that he has to sit down for five or ten minutes before he can begin his work. Stripped to the waist, he has to work at the face like a beast of burden, and when he finishes his shift, he is in such a state of exhaustion that he often has to rest before he can begin the journey to the surface. Many of the miners, after they reach the surface, have to wait an hour before they can get a train back to their homes, distant anything from 7 to 15 miles. Considering the adversities of the miner, the uncertainties of his employment, the dangers to which he is subjected, and the way in which he has to speed up in his work in order to live, no sane man in the community would deny that if eight hours' labour is to be recognised as a principle in Australia, the first man that ought to be considered is the man who goes underground to dig for that which the community demands to carry on its industries. A great deal of sympathy is felt for the mining community, and I very much regret that the Government did not put into action the machinery at its command to prevent the dire calamity which befell Australia. The conditions created threaten the very future of our industrial life. We have no right to sit down quietly and wait until the pressure is so great that the community has perforce to yield to the claim made, even though that claim is unjust. It only requires a certain power of organization to force any position so far as . the social and civil life of the community is concerned. It ought to be the province of the Government to forestall any act of violence or any pressure that would compel a surrender to whatever claims ' are made. I am not one of those who believe that -the purpose of organization is to exercise that amount of pressure which will command  obedience  to its demands. 
I am perfectly well aware that organized labour can become the same despotic power that organized capital can become in a community, and that we are just as much likely to suffer from one kind of pressure as the other. It is the duty of the Government to create a condition of affairs that will prevent either becoming necessary.- 
They should have issued a proclamation, which would have been more worthy of them than the one calling up the manhood of the country before the people said they were to go oversea. I sent an urgent wire to  Mr. Hughes  on the 10th November, drawing his attention to the seriousness of the situation and urging the temporary taking over of the mines pending a settlement of the difficulty. I received an acknowledgment of the telegram, but nothing further came of it. Other overtures were made to him along simila'r lines, but he absolutely refused. I am told that he said he would not take it on even for a million. 
None:; but the district president told me, and I know he would not willingly tell me a lie, 
The position had not arisen. The policy of the Labour party is the nationalization of coal mines, and it was unnecessary therefore for me to raise the question. That is the policy I was elected on, and the platform on which I stand. 
It was no more my duty to bring it forward than it was the duty of the honorable senator. I have been in this Chamber for two years; he has been here for twelve. Has he ever raised here the question of the nationalization of coal mines? 
No ; the public have been taught the need for the nationalization of the coal mines by a lesson which they will never forget. 
Undoubtedly. If they had demanded six hours they would have had my sympathy. A miner's six hours is worth any other man's eight hours on the surface. He ought to have at least two hours given to him for the difficulties under which he labours. 
I shall certainly give credit where it is due, but this reform is due to the determination, pluck, and dogged perseverence of the  men  working in the coal mines. If they had not put their backs against the wall, saying  ' When we are treated as men we will work as men, but when we are treated as serfs and slaves, we will show our teeth and die fighting," they would not have gained what they did. Consider what it meant to those men to take up a position of that kind; notwithstanding the statement that some of the miners earn 27s. and 28s. per day, I know that the ordinary miner works under conditions that no civilized being ought to be compelled to endure; that his home - unless he has been fortunate in securing work in some of the best mines - is very often unfit for habitation. It may he clean and tidy, as every thrifty housewife makes her home, but as a home itself it is often hardly fit to carry away. Because of the intermittent nature of their work, many of them live in bag houses, and are heavily handicapped by debt, because of their honorable and upright disposition and determination to pay their way, and to clear their feet of liabilities incurred through circumstances over which so often they have no control. The position thus created is severely felt. I venture to say that this month of idleness, due to circumstances that have been explained, will be felt by the miners for many months to come. I have been through strikes myself, lasting in some cases from four to nine months, and I know from bitter experience what is the lot of miners when passing through those trying times. It is absurd to suggest that men would, without just cause, create a position that is more than repellant to them. No man who has to work for his livelihood can find pleasure in bringing hardship upon another section of the community. No body of working men is more generous than is the mining community of this country, and none responds more readily to an appeal for help than the Australian miners. They have given freely to the cause of the Empire. It is estimated that one out of every five employed in the mining industry is now serving the Empire in the prosecution of this war. And yet these men are now held responsible for the position that has been created in the mining industry. The Government, in my opinion, have not displayed a strong hand. I sympathize with the Prime Minister, because I realize he has not had the power which in other circumstances would have been his. I venture to say that if  Mr. Hughes  had taken a bold stand at this juncture he would largely have rehabilitated himself in the eyes of the community, whose confidence he had lost. He had a golden opportunity to redeem a position that is now utterly impossible, for he has forfeited the confidence of the working classes in the community by his attitude in regard to this war. If, prior to this crisis, the Prime Minister had instituted a scheme for recruiting based upon his opinion after having visited the scene of action on the other side of the world, he would have created a sympathy unparallelled  in the history of the recruiting campaign. There never was a more golden opportunity for William' Morris Hughes to stand higher in the estimation of the people of Australia than ever he stood in the estimation of the people of England during his visit to the Mother Country, and when he stirred the people with his famous orations and his patriotic zeal in the cause of the Empire. He had Australia at his feet then. He knew that the public were opposed to compulsion, and had declared that if ever the time came when the people of this country were not prepared to fight for it, it would be because the country was not worth fighting for, but was rotten to the core. These were his sentiments when he came back from the Mother Country, and for a considerable time he refused to use She word "conscription." He talked as patriotically as when he was in the Old Country, and we all listened with awe and reverence; but when his plans were laid bare, we found that, instead of consulting the Labour party as to the best methods for the prosecution of this war, he simply said he was going to do so-and-so. He came to the Caucus with his own Cabinet divided on the subject, and when he found that the position was impossible he submitted the proposal that the matter should go before the  people.  That was a course which we, as Labour representatives, found ourselves committed to; and consequently, while we did not care for the scheme, we had to consider whether it was wise to force a general election upon the people, or whether we would allow them to decide the issue. The position has been determined, and we are now assembled with a full knowledge of what the people desire. It is true that the majority against conscription is a small one, comparatively speaking; but, when we consider all the circumstances of the campaign, the result was remarkable. Speaking for myself, I can say I travelled considerably through the country districts of New South W ales, following on the heels of those who were on the opposite platform. On a Wednesday night, the Premier of New South Wales  (Mr. Holman)  spoke at Tamworth, and I followed him on the Thursday night. In the morning the local paper appeared with a report of  Mr. Holman's  speech, occupying a column and a quarter, and an apology that as it was not possible to set up the whole of his speech, only a condensed report could be given, but that a full report would appear in Saturday's issue. The report of my speech covered 6 inches of space, and on the following Saturday  Mr. Holman  received a full page, except for about half a column. I did not leave Tamworth without thanking the local  Observer  for having given me such consideration, because the daily papers of Sydney had been giving me about halfaninch for some of the largest meetings which I addressed. It was the policy of the metropolitan press to crush out the views of those who stood upon the anticonscription platform; but, on the other hand, it mattered little who was the  speaker,  so long as he spoke for conscription he found the press open to him. Then, again, the mayors of every town had been requested by the Government to assist in the campaign for conscription, and thus every civic authority was organized on that side. Every available means, all universities, all the professors, and even the ministers of religion, were requested to bring influence to bear in presenting the issue to the people from the view-point of the conscriptionists. Considering all these circumstances, and the fact that we were labouring against vile representations, villainy, and a tirade of abuse, the result was simply marvellous. 
That depends upon how the Minister views the position. I certainly am zealous for the prosecution of this war, and if that constitutes a conscriptionist, I am one up to that point, for I am prepared to adopt every legitimate means that I know of to beat the Hun. I have made the greatest sacrifice that any man could make - greater even than the sacrifice of my own life - and having done that I think I have done all a man can do, for among those boys of mine at the front is one who in the course of a few months may be seeking to do his little bit by dropping bombs over the enemy's forces. I yield to no man in my loyalty, and in my adherence to the British flag; but I have yet to learn that we are going to conserve the interests of the Empire by further denuding this country of its people in view of the fact that in two years we have given 300,000 of our best manhood, that we are in possession of a territory of 3,000,000 square miles,  foreshored   by 10,000 miles; that we are removed by 12,000 miles from the seat of the Empire; and that, in the words of  Mr. Hughes  himself, we are within " coo-ee " of 1,000,000,000 of Asiatics who are jostling one another for want of room. We have to remember, also, that we are heaping up millions of pounds of debt to be £he burden of generations yet unborn; and under the plea of patriotism we send more of our virile manhood away, to the danger of our industries, then that will be patriotism gone mad. The people of the Old Country, in the words of  Senator de  Largie, could not sing their paeans of praise too loudly for the work that Australia is doing. No shadow fell across the country until the Right Honorable William Morris Hughes came back from England, and told Australia that her manhood was to be conscripted, and to be compelled to do what they had been doing well and loyally under the voluntary system. 
They did, as did the sons of every other man, and they have the honour and glory of knowing that they went of their own free will to take part in the defence of King and country. 
The honorable senator should not make himself one. Our men have gone forward voluntarily, and Australia can look upon every one of them with pride. Every one who comes back will be a man whom we can respect and admire, and whom we should be .prepared to succour to the utmost of our power. At no time in the future can we ever forget their valiant deeds. But if our men went as conscripts, forced to leave our shores against their will, . could we look upon them with the same pleasure and pride; could they take the same pride in their work, anu could we have the same sense of their valour as we have of the valour of those who have voluntarily gone to the front? I know nothing of the character of the vote of our Australians overseas, but I venture to say that it was not their will that any man should be forced to leave Australia against his own desire. The temper of the soldier was, I am sure, as true as that of the civilian within our borders, and he was prepared to admit that those still in Australia should be given the same right to say whether they would go to the front or not that he had himself claimed and exercised. The spirit of patriotism and the desire to prosecute the war has been clouded by the manner in which affairs have been dealt with during the last few months, and it will take some time to restore previously-existing conditions. We are not going to restore them by hurling at each other epithets and unkind words. 
I do not know of any man who has transgressed in this respect more than has  Senator de  Largie. There is no man more capable of abuse when occasion gives him the opportunity. Anything we may have said has been provoked by our opponents. We were zealously prosecuting the war. For months and months we were travelling night and day throughout the Commonwealth addressing meetings in the States in which we lived. We had created a feeling of fervour in the manhood of the country, and then, because we were not prepared to violently lay hands on our men, and compel them to do what we desired by force instead of persuasion, calumny was heaped upon us, and every opprobrious epithet applied to us by those who differed from us in opinion. We are told that we are the victims of the Trades Hall. I want to say, " Thank God for my environment." I have nothing to apologize for in connexion with the dictation of the Trades Hall. It is the Trades Hall that has given me my position in life to-day. It gave thirty-one Labour senators their positions in the Senate, and they ought never to forget it. When the Trades Hall speaks, its voice ought to be heard. We were looking forward to the time when the trades union movement would make its voice heard in the Commonwealth. It has been heard; and now we are told by men who heard its voice many years ago, and who have been placed by it in important positions in this country of their adoption 6*r their nativity, that we are the subjects of a " secret junta " and under the domination of an irresponsible body. I say that the Trades Hall, as representing the trades union movement, is not an irresponsible body. The trades union movement has made our industrial life what it is to-day. It is that movement which has made it possible for working men to get some redress for the grievances under which they labour from day to day. If ever the influence of the Trades Hall ceases to operate, woe betide the working population. I care not what political party may be in power, it is to the Trades Hall that we must look for progress in the industrial affairs of the country. We are here to register its vows, and to put upon tha statute-book of the country that which the Trades Hall claims to be the inalienable rights of the workers, and which we know to be just claims. 
They are there to speak to the Prime Minister of the country, if need be. I say that a Labour Prime Minister who fails to lend an attentive ear to the Trades Hall is no longer fit to be a Labour Prime Minister. He may be any other kind of representative honorable senators please, but he will have ceased to be one who reflects the ideas of the working-class organizations. That is the position which has recently been created. What has the trades union movement been objecting to in this matter? What has it been asking for ? It has been asking that the freedom which it has achieved in connexion with the industrial affairs shall be maintained in connexion with the political affairs of the country. The political position determines every other position in the community. It is impossible to rise above the political position which has recently been created. If you have a certain line of conduct governing the masses, it must dominate and govern the classes. Because of the classes to which it is attached, and on which its very existence depends, the Trades Hall is seeking to maintain the freedom of the workers and is claiming that no spirit of coercion shall be introduced into the prosecution of the war. I may be told that we have the compulsory system for home service, that the Labour movement instituted that principle, and is loyal to it. I adhere to that principle. 
Well, what about it? 
When I fail to retain the confidence of the organizations of Labour, I have no place here. 
Yes, no matter what they may be. 
Thank God if I am ! I wish the honorable senator was safe. 
Then the honorable senator wishes to be simply a representative of himself. 
When I accepted my present position I did so as a representative of the people. 
Tes, of principles that are enshrined in the Labour movement as it is organized to-day. 
I am not here as  Senator Russell's  accuser. He stands self -accused so far as I am. concerned. 
I have not uttered one word in condemnation of any member of the Senate. I have spoken of principles which should guide every man who stands in this chamber as the representative of Labour. When the time comes that I cannot speak with the voice of Labour I shall remain silent in this chamber. I shall tell the Labour movement to which I belong that I .can no longer echo its voice. I have come here as a voice of the Labour movement, and I feel that I am bound to express the spirit of the movement, and to advocate the principles upon which it is organized. I say that we could not possibly do what was asked of us by the Prime Minister. When he asked that we should send 16,500 men per month to prosecute the war, I was not prepared to pledge Australia to that extent. Had we complied with such a demand we should have depleted Australia in thirteen months' time of the whole of the virile manhood of the country. The domestic and commercial interests of the country demand that a certain number of that population should be retained within the Commonwealth. Had the Prime Minister taken up that position one could have understood him, but if he had been asked to send 40,000 per month I have no reason to believe that he would have murmured even at that. The question of the last man and the last shilling has been raised, and by our silence, at any rate, we all acquiesced in that offer. I claim that the spirit of that offer was embodied in my policy of anti-conscription . 
The honorable senator knows that it was a ridiculous statement to make. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Has the Leader of the Senate any idea as to when the Supply Bill will come before us, and can he indicate the intention of the Government in regard to the sittings for the remainder of this year? 
I anticipate that the Supply Bill will come before us early next week. I shall try then to give a forecast of the sittings for this year, but at the present time I cannot. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I give notice of my intention to move, on Wednesday next, that in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act  Senator Needham  be appointed a member of the Public Works Committee, in place of  Senator Lynch,  resigned. 
An appointment under the Act will be made in a similar way to the appointment of a Select Committee. When the Minister for Defence moves his motion on Wednesday next, it will be open to  Senator Gardiner  to move an amendment. However, notice can be handed in, and it will be equivalent to an amendment. 
I shall be glad if the Minister for Defence is now in a position to reply to the "'following questions, which I asked the other day: - 
Is it a fact that the Australian troops now serving in Egypt are provided with what is termed " Imperial' rations " ? 
Will the Minister inform the Senate what is the difference between the "Imperial" and the "Australian" scale of rations? 
SenatorPEARCE. - The answer is as follows: -  1 and 2. The following is the scale of rations issued to the Australian troops in . Egypt :  - 
Fresh meat, 1 lb., or preserved meat, one ration. 
Bread, 11 lbs., nominal, or biscuit or flour, ¾ lb. 
Bacon, 4 ozs. 
Milk, 112th tin. 
Jam, 3 ozs. 
Fresh vegetables, 8 ozs. 
Potatoes, 4 ozs. 
Cheese, 3 ozs. 
Sugar, 3 ozs. 
Tea, oz. 
Salt,¼ oz. 
Pepper, l-36th oz. 
Mustard, l-50th oz. 
Tobaoco or cigarettes, 2 ozs. weekly. 
Matches, two boxes weekly. 
Bum,¼ gill, or cocoa, 1½ ozs., at discretion of Divisional Commander. 
When available Mondays, Fridays, 2 ozs. rice and dried fruit in lien of 4 ozs. fresh vegetables. 
Tuesdays, Thursdays, 2 ozs. oatmeal in lien of 4 ozs. fresh vegetables. 
Sundays, 4 oz. curry powder in lieu of l-50th oz. mustard. 
Units receiving milk, one tin to eight men, as cheese not available. 14th Australian General Hospital, fed under contract. 
For mobile columns when specially authorized, dried vegetables,  2  ozs. when potatoes or fresh vegetables not issned. 
Wednesdays, Saturdays. 2 ozs. flour and 2 ozs. dried fruit in lieu of "3 ozs. fresh vegetables. 
The following is the ration issued to the Australian Imperial Force troops in Australia : - 
Bread, 1¼ lbs., or I lb. biscuit. 
Fresh meat, 1¼ lbs., or 1 lb. preserved meat or salt fish. 
Coffee,½ oz. 
Pepper, l-32nd oz. 
Mixed vegetables. 8 ozs., or 2 ozs. cheese. 
Potatoes, 1 lb. 
Sugar, 3 ozs. 
Salt,½ oz. 
Tea,½ oz. 
Jam,¼ lb. 
Flour,½ lb. weekly. 
Rice,½ lb: weekly. 
Curry, 1 oz. weekly. 
Is the Minister for Defence aware that the Convalescent Hospital at Perham Downs, on Salisbury Plain, in England, where Australian soldiers are sent from France, has been described by an Australian soldier as - one of the dirtiest and filthiest holes that convalescent men could be sent to . . . all grouped together in huts, or, to be more explicit, hovels; and there are some in tents which are not even rainproof. Eighty per cent. of the men were coughing and spitting all over the ground. Diseases will kill more men than the Germans. 
Will the Minister cause full inquiries to be made by cablegram respecting this complaint? 
Yes, inquiries will be made. I may say that that communication is in direct conflict with the reports on all the hospitals, not only by military officers, but by visitors to Great Britain and France, which have been received in Australia up to date. 
Is the Minister for Defence yet in a position to make a statement giving the details of the arrangement which, according to cablegrams, has been made by the Prime Minister with the Imperial authorities concerning the disposal of Australian metals ? 
No, I have not yet received a reply, but I shall make inquiries presently, and the information may be available in the course of the day. 
I desire to know whether the return which the Minister for Works tabled to-day is in reply to the questions I asked a few days ago? 
I said at the time that the honorable senator's wishes could best be met by tabling a return, and that has been done. 
I could read the information given in the return if the honorable senator desired that, but he can see the return for himself. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy,  upon notice - 
Are the arrangements that have been made for the distribution of coal at Newcastle and other ports such that sufficient tonnage is available to lift the daily output of the mines ? 
If not, will not some collieries stop when their waggons are full, and will not each day's stoppage mean the loss of the coal that could be mined that day? 
The answers are - 
Yes. 
See No. 1. 
asked the Minister for Works,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to proceed with the construction of the Katherine to Bitter Springs railway, as soon as the section to the Katherine is completed? 
The answer is- 
It is anticipated that the railway from Pine Creek to' Katherine River, upon which about seventy men are now employed, will be completed about April next. The extension to Bitter Springs, a further 64 miles, has been favorably reported on by the Public Works Committee, and a Bill to authorize the construction is now before Parliament. Should the Bill be passed, the prospects of obtaining the 'necessary material to enable a start to be made immediately the line to Katherine is finished are not very hopeful, as the greatest difficulty is experienced in getting tonnage to take sleepers to Darwin, and it is considered unlikely that the necessary rails can be procured by that time. 
asked the Minister for 
Works,  upon notice - 
What progress has been made by  Mr. C.  E. Oliver in furnishing a report on the Canberra sewerage and water supply? 
Does the Minister consider that any further expense should be incurred in connexion with this matter? 
The answers are- 

 Mr. Oliver furnished interim reports upon both water and sewerage, and hopes to have the completed reports finished shortly - about the end of the vear. 
I will look "into the matter, but apparently most of the expenditure has already been incurred. 
asked the Minister re presenting the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Was the action of  Mr. King  O'Malley in distributing a large number of free passes over the Commonwealth railways indorsed by the late Government? 
Is it approved by the present Government? 
The answers are - 
The late Government approved of the issue of free life passes on Commonwealth railways to those who had held office as Ministers for a period of more than twelve months. No other persons to whom passes were to be issued were proposed or approved by the late Government. 
See No. 1. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
In view of the termination of the coal strike, have arrangements been made for the restoration of the Tasmanian-Mainland steam service as existing before the  Btrike,  and, if so, when will such restoratidn be put into effect? 
The Naval Department advises that it is hoped sufficient coal will be available to enable the full service to be resumed neit week. In the meantime the service is being run' on the basis of two trips per week. 
The answers are - 
No. The restrictions under the War Precautions Regulations (Coal) are still in force. 
No. 
I move - 
That Statutory Rule 204 of 1916, under the War Precautions Act 191 4-1916, be disallowed. 
Before advancing reasons why this regulation, which  is  dated 30th August, and was laid on the table of the Senate on the 13th September, should be disallowed, I propose to read it in order that honorable senators may understand exactly its purport.It was made under the powers conferred by the War Precautions Act 1914- 1916, and the notification relating to  it  reads - 
That is not so, because I take it that, if this particular regulation were disallowed, regulation 187, which was previously amended, would still remain operative. 
An Honorable  Senator. -  Let us wipe cut both. 
Yes. Let us kill this regulation first, and we shall then be able to deal with the other. I believe that a censorship is essential for the proper conduct of affairs in any country which may be at war. Regulation 187 in its original form read - 
No person shall, without lawful authority, print, otherwise than for submission to the censorship, in compliance with this regulation, publish, sell, or distribute any printed matter which refers in any way to the methods of recruiting or raising troops for service in any of His Majesty's Forces. 
The Government, by means of regulation 204, propose to delete the words relating to the methods of recruiting, and to insert a- provision which will have the effect of preventing anybody from publishing, selling, or- distributing any printed matter relating to the war or to any subject arising therefrom-- 
Yes. But that provision applies to the original regulation, as well as to this one. When matters are submitted to the censor, he acts practically as a dictator and an autocrat. Without giving too many illustrations in support of ray contention, I wish to show that, during the recent referendum campaign, the censor did not hold the scales of justice evenly as between the two opposing political forces. 
I am opposed to these plenary powers being vested in any ohe man, or in any body of men. In freedom-loving Australia are we going to prohibit the publication of any statement relating to the war, or to any subject connected therewith or arising therefrom? In my judgment,  even  under the original regulation, the censor used his powers to a greater extent than the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence led us to believe he would use them. 
I can. I have a perfect embarrassment of riches in that connexion. In reply to a question put to him in the other; branch of the Legislature, on the 13tH September "last, the Prime Minister stated, as will be seen by reference to  Hansard,  page 8482 - 
I take this opportunity of saying that both by word of mouth and through the columns of the press every person is at liberty to speak as he thinks fit, subject only to the law of the land, saying nothing to discourage voluntary recruiting, insulting to our Allies, or calculated to incite any persons to commit a breach of the law of any State or the Commonwealth. Subject to these restrictions, speech in the referendum campaign will be absolutely free to both sides, irrespective of opinions. 
Now, I ask honorable senators, and particularly the Minister for Defence, whether speech was free to both sides during the recent referendum campaign ? 
I had a cabbage thrown at me. 
 Senator Lynch  brought the wrath of his hearers upon himself. Those who know him and his Celtic temperament will recognise that when he spoke, as he did here, in such a wonderfully impassioned way on the question of conscription he was bound to provoke some hostility. I deny  Senator Pearce's  statement that freedom of speech was allowed to every person in the referendum campaign. I take it for granted that freedom of speech also includes freedom of the press, but I have here a striking illustration to show that under regulation 204 freedom of the press was not allowed to Nathaniel Jacka, the father of Lieutenant Jacka, one of our Victoria Cross heroes. He made the following statutory declaration : - 
I, Nathaniel Jacka, of Wedderburn, in the State of Victoria, labourer, solemnly and sincerely declare as follows : - 
That I am the father of Lieutenant Albert Jacka, V.C., of Lieutenant William Jacka, and of Private Sidney Jacka. 
That I have received several letters from my sons, Lieutenant Albert Jacka, V.C., and Lieutenant William Jacka, who are in France. They have never complained of the want of reinforcements. On the other hand, they have stated that the conditions in France are much better than in Gallipoli, as they are more frequently relieved. Lieutenant Albert Jacka, V.C., in one letter said that while out of the trenches they almost "forget the rattle of the guns, and  we have plenty of fun."  Never in any letter have any of my sons supported conscription, and in" my belief they are all still opposed to it. ' My wife and daughter are working against conscription, believing, as I do, that we should keep free the land for which our sons went out freely to fight. 
That I have read what appears to be a letter to the  Argus  of to-day from Reg. W. Turnbull, of Linda Cottage, Wedderburn. I have lived in Wedderburn for about thirty years, and know all the people in and around the town. There is no such person as Reg. W. Turnbull living in Wedderburn. I know each and every Turnbull living in the whole district. The only Turnbull in Wedderburn is Walter Turnbull, a butcher, who is childless. I believe the letter said to have been received by Reg. W. Turnbull to be a fabrication made for the purpose of improperly influencing votes in favour of conscription. 
And I make this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of "an Act of the 
Parliament of Victoria rendering persons making a false declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury. 
Jacka. 
Declared at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 27th day of October, 1916- Before me. Chas. Gray, j.P. 
Although he had three sons at the front ho was an anti-conscriptionist, one  of  the men classed by  Mr. Hughes  and his supporters as disloyalists, pro-Germans, and  traitors. 
It is absolutely true.  Mr. Hughes,  referring to the people who were against the referendum and against conscription, applied to them such terms as " disloyalists," " ProGermans," and traitors to the British Empire and their own country. He also said they were taking German gold. If he did not apply that language to  Mr. Jacka,  and honorable members of this Senate, to whom in the name of goodness did it apply? We were all classed  in  the same category, and that is one of the principal reasons why the people of Australia were so incensed against  Mr. Hughes,  and voted "No" on the 28th October. 
It is not. The censor refused permission for that declaration to be published in the Melbourne  Herald,  of the evening of 27th October, the day before the poll. That is a sample of the fair treatment that we were to receive from  Mr. Hughes  and  Senator Pearce,  and of the fairness that the censor gave us under Statutory Rule No. 204. The declaration, however, appeared in the Ballarat  Echo. 
I am not advocating that any man should defy the law. The censor in Ballarat allowed  it to go  into the columns of the  Echo,  which did valuable service in the " No " campaign, but about an hour after he had given his sanction a telephone message was received from Lieutenant McColl, of the censor's staff, in Melbourne, that the declaration must not be published. It was published in the  Echo,  as  Senator McKissock  says, in defiance of the instructions from Melbourne. Yet the Government say that the censor was prepared to give us a fair deal. Is there anything wrong in that declaration? Does it in any way assist the enemy or interfere with recruiting? It was purely a political, and not a military or national matter at all. 
I understand not. 
I do not know, but I am credibly informed that he prohibited its publication in the Melbourne  Herald,  of 27th October. We wanted no favoritism on either side in  the  campaign. All we demanded was what was right, fair, and just. I have  here a  proof of the Sydney  Worker,  the recognised organ of  the  Australian Workers Union, one of the greatest unions in Australia. It bears on it the censor's stamp, dated 21st October, 1916, a week before the poll was taken. This fair-play-loving Government and this just censor censored the article in a way which I shall show. The proof I have is just as it came from the censor, with his blue pencil marks on it. I shall read to the Senate the passage which he censored, and which the anti-conscriptionists wanted to put before that section of the people who are wise enough to read the columns of the Sydney  Worker.  I appeal to  Senator Pearce  to say whether there is anything in the article damaging to recruiting, or in any way helpful to the enemy, or hurtful to our Allies. As a matter of fact, it was purely a question of figures, and the purpose of the. article was to show that  Mr. Hughes  was asking the people of Australia to do too much when he wanted 32,500 men in the first month, and 16,500 men in each succeeding month. It was as follows - 
The honorable senator haslately returned from the East, and no doubt has acquired some of that occult science with which Eastern people are credited, but I have not, and I cannot tell him. I know no more than is contained in the article which I have placed before the Senate. I am trying to show to the Leader of the Government that the censor had no occasion to prohibit the publication in the Sydney 

 Worker of that mathematical statement,  as it has been called, even if it were misleading, which I do not admit, especially when misleading statements on the other side were not prohibited by the censor and his staff. 
-It would have appeared if the editor of the paper had not abided by the law. The article from which I arn. quoting is &amp; proof, as submitted to the censor, and it was passed by that official after the portions marked with a blue pencil had been deleted, and in that altered and emasculated form it was allowed to appear in the  Worker. 
The article I refer to was censored, and I maintain that it 'contained no statement to which exception could be taken, especially in view of the counterblasts from the conscriptionists' side that were passed by the censor. Included in that 'article was another censored statement. In the proof as submitted to the official' referred to, the following appeared : - 
Despite the assurance of the Prime Minister and his henchman, the Government intends to conscript every man "between the ages of 18 and 60 years, without any exemption whatever. 
The words " without any exemption whatever " were struck out by the censor. 
I am not prepared to say, 'because I would not like to prophesy what members of the Government are prepared to do. 
Here is another statement taken from  Mr. Watt's  speech in the Sydney Town Hall : - 
He was "asked, "What about Canada?" and replied as under - ;In proportion to population, Canada  has  enlisted -more men than Australia, but has not sent them into the firing, line. 
It would'be as- well' to-tell  Mr. Watt,  in 'case he m'ay' not" -know, that the press that gives him liberal publicity in this campaign has deliberately held back cables dealing with* Canadian enlistments and conscription on more? than one occasion. 
The latter part was censored. I do not know whether honorable senators saw a copy of the Melbourne  Herald  about three weeks before the referendum poll, but if they did not I can tell them that thereappeared in that paper a black cableheadline to the following effect - " Canada. No Conscription." It referred to a cablewhich purported to have come from Vancouver, stating that the Canadian Government had decided upon no conscription. But readers might search the  Ageand  the  Argus  from that day to this without finding any reference in a cable message to Canada's action in that respect. 
-I do not know. 
If the result in. Canada had been the other way, if" Cana'da had 'declared in favor of conscription, both the  Age  and the  Argus  wou'ld have been quick enough' to tell thepeople of Australia what Canada had done. As a matter of fact I think it 'waaa' convenient  lapsus  memoriae  on the part, of the  Age  and the  Argus.  The  Argus  professes to have a hundred eyes, but if" it is unable to see what is being done in Canada, then it is not nearly up to thejournalistic capacity of the Melbourne  Herald,  which was able to furnish .newsto the people of Australia concerning the* attitude of Canada on this question. I have with me also a proof, supplied to the censor, of an article written ' for the Melbourne  Labour Gall.  I am going to read' portion of the article to honorable senators' for what it is worth, but it may be censored out of  Hansard.  It refers toMr. Hughes, dealing with his attitude on conscription, and much of it was allowed to pass. This is the part .which, was censored - 
Like a 'witch of  old, the present usurper of rule oscillates 'round the cauldron of trouble in sardonic enjoyment of evil &gt;s&gt;way. -No hag of  Endor  could -have had 'greater -dominance - for the black- heart -of. Error,  or have .it carried to so wide-spread malignity, than W. .Jil. Hughes, the man whose sinister influence has now brought Australia to the deepest travail, and who,yet calls "up "moTe and -more "dread By1 the dark 'machinations of tyranny. Be,that' was the  chosen of  -Labour,.-of- Democracy, has put scorpions into the breasts of the1 people. He, who was the trusted of the nation, was its fugleman when voice was sounded over the five seas as a voice of great deliverance - is now a hated object and implacable hunk, and enjoys the transformation as crows enjoy a carcass. 
I want to make my position clear. I am not arguing the merits or demerits of any article. If this is a silly article, if it is not literary or grammatical, people would accept it at its face value if it were allowed to appear in a newspaper, and the more silly and asinine an article is the more will people ridicule it. _ The  PRESIDENT.  - Order ! I remind the honorable senator that our Standing Orders are emphatic that no senator shall make a statement which reflects upon any member of another place or any honorable senator. The honorable senator, while not at liberty to do that himself, certainly cannot be allowed liberty to quote the statements of others doing it, because that would be an evasion of the Standing Orders which could not be permitted. 
I regret, sir, that unconsciously I overstepped the Standing Orders. I did not want to allude to a member of another place by name or by inference. I only desired to read these articles. There are one or two other illustrations which I propose to make use of. If  Senator Pearce  can tell me that this is contrary to the spirit of the War Precautions Act, or that it is going to damage recruiting,  or that it is erroneous in any shape or form, or hurtful to any person, apart from the fact that some newspaper references are hurtful to all politicians, I will admit that I am wrong. I propose to read an extract from a proof of this week's  Labour Gall,  as submitted to the censor. Referring to a gentleman - I cannot mention his name - who presided over the deliberations of a conference at the Treasury-buildings here which tried to settle the coal strike, it says - 
Consider his persistent malevolence in regard to the coal strike. 
The words " persistent -malevolence " have been censored, and the censor,  Mr. Newell,  or  Mr. McColl,  has written in the word "attitude" in place of them. Whether it was malevolent or not I am not here to argue. That is for the people themselves to decide. What I contend is that the censor has no right to alter words in an article dealing with any person which has nothing to do with the war and to put words into a written statement. That is the attitude which I am trying to follow in my speech.- Getting away from military and political matters, I have here a copy of a dodger issued by a gentleman who has been running throughout Australia, a picture show called " Ireland a Nation." He expended about £80 in getting the dodger printed and distributed throughout the Commonwealth. He started in Melbourne with his cinematograph show, visited about eighty towns in New South Wales, travelled through Queensland, and when he got to the great town of Cairns the censor pounced upon him and said he would not permit the dodger to be distributed broadcast to advertise the fact that the man was running the show. I ask honorable senators to observe the silliness of the censor. The dodger deals with " Ireland a Nation." What this has to do with the war I think, that nobody but the censor knows. It says - 
It depicts 114 years of Erin's struggle for Home Rule, for freedom and for long-deferred and grudgingly granted justice. A magnificent back-cloth is provided for the setting of this historical series by scenes embracing beautiful panoramic views of the romantic Lakes of Killarney, the  Wicklow  Hills,  Kilmainham  (the patriots' gaol),  Luggielaw,  Glendalough, Glen.malure, Glen Cree, and a dozen other spots famous in song and story for sheer loveliness or some deed of vivid flame, including many ancient cathedrals and  monastries,  and other places of historical, archaeological and picturesque interest. Amid these scenes and in this setting is unfolded the  pathetic  and heroic story of Ireland's fight for freedom and free institutions. Erin's friends and foes are shown as in a crystal. 
The words " and foes " have been censored - 
The film shows a number of persons who are famous in various ways, from the perfidious Castlereagh to the martyred Emmet. The word " perfidious " has been censored. The censor would not allow the word to be published or distributed, lecause it alluded to Castlereagh, who li as been known in history as the "  perfidin  is Castlereagh." 
Who are the enemies of Ireland? 
Do you not? The enemies of Ireland referred to there are Englishmen, and not Germans. 
Will it help Germany if you create that feeling? 
Do you think that England ought to be allowed to be "stigmatized as the enemy of Ireland while the war is on ? 
So it did. 
Did you see the picture? 
I did. 
Let no man write my epitaph, for as no man who knows my motives dare now vindicate them, let not prejudice nor ignorance asperse them. Let them and me rest in obscurity and peace; and my tomb remain uninscribed, and my memory in oblivion, until other times and other men can do justice to my character. When my country takes her place among the nations of the earth, then, and not till then, let ray epitaph be written. 
As honorable senators know, that is portion of Emmet's immortal and brilliant speech from the dock - 
Words that fire every true Irish heart with patriotism ! Words that volleyed through the Court room in Dublin 113 years ago t Words and deeds that form a crushing climax to- "Ireland a Nation," a magnificent six-reel dramatic production by 

 Mr. Walter McNamara, and an all.Irish cast, headed by  Mr. Owen  O'Brien as Robert Emmettt. 
Passing over the passage which I have already quoted, the description of the film continues - 
Irishmen will note with pride a long procession of her patriots, men of . action and men who inspired to action - John Philpott Curran, Henry Grattan, the self-sacrificing McAllister, the brave Wicklow leader, Michael Dwyer, and the men of ninety-eight; Fathers John and Michael Murphy, Roach and Clinch, O'Connell, the "Liberator," and the stalwart chiefs of the Young Ireland Party. With justice the direction announces that this series constitutes the greatest all-Irish programme ever presented in the annals of kinema art, a limning of deeds enacted in the exact localities of their historic doing. 
Thrilling and Beautiful Best Describe it. 
In all history there is no name which touches the Irish heart like that of Robert Emmet. We read, in that eventful record, of men who laid down their lives for Ireland amid the roar and  crash of battle ; of others who perished by the headsman's axe or the halter of the hangman; of others whose eyes were closed for ever in the gloom of British dungeons - 
The words ' ' in the gloom of British dungeons " were censored. I defy the Minister for Defence, or any other honorable senator, to say that this is not a historical fact and that it has nothing whatever to do with the war. and of many whose hearts broke amid the sorrows of involuntary exile; of men who, in the great warfare of mind rendered the Irish cause services no less memorable and glorious. They were neither forgotten nor unhonoured. The warrior figure or Hugh O'Neill is a familiar vision to Irishmen; Sarsfield expiring on the foreign battlefield with that infinitely pathetic and noble utterance on his lips : " Would that this were for Ireland " - is a cherished remembrance, and that last cry of a patriotic spirit dwells for ever about our hearts; Grattan battling against a corrupt and venal faction, first to win and then to defend the independence of his country, astonishing friends and foes alike by the dazzling splendour of his eloquence; and O'Connell on the . hillsides pleading for the restoration of Ireland's rights, and rousing his countrymen to a struggle for them, are pictures of which we are proudmemories that will ever live in song and story. But the stories, deeds, and memories of Robert Emmet are greatest of all. 
From the moment he took an active interest in Ireland's welfare, and fough't for it, and died for it, this film traces the career of Robert Emmet, Ireland's martyr, dramatically, thrillingly, accurately, , entertainingly. 
And this is a right time to be reviving it? 
For not submitting the matter to the censor. They knew they had to submit it, and they evaded the law. 
The honorable senator knows very well. If they interviewed the honorable senator, he must know that they were fined for not submitting the matter to the censor. Why does he not admit it ? 
And he did not tell the honorable senator that? 
Frazer and Jenkinson, like Anderson, relied upon the promises given, and they, too, discovered, at the cost of £30 7s., that the promises were pie crust, made to be broken. It is possible that these are but the beginning of many more to follow. 
That paragraph was censored. 
Because it is an absolute lie. 
The difficulty has been increased, too, by a general knowledge of the circumstances and unsatisfactory treatment of many returned soldiers. 
In this sentence, the words, " and unsatisfactory treatment of many returned soldiers " have been censored. I quote from a manuscript letter, to which I find attached the following letter to the editor of the  Labour Call,  from Lieutenant Westwood, on behalf of the censor - 
Returned herewith, please find a letter headed "Voluntary Recruiting Campaign," signed " Leviticus." I am directed to advise you that this matter cannot be published. 
Where in the letter signed "Leviticus," the statement is made, "They realized fully the horrors and absurdity of war," the words, " and absurdity " are censored. Another statement made is - 
Now, as the prosperous section of the community declare they are willing to sacrifice a portion of their wealth in the prosecution of the war, and ask others to be prepared to sacrifice their lives, the needed reinforcements should be easily obtained. 
In this sentence, the words, " and ask others to be prepared to sacrifice their lives" are censored. They are not to be published in the  Labour Call  of this week. I have said that I am not entering into the merits or demerits of conscription or the voluntary system. 
You think that people should have the right to publish articles against recruiting. 
The letter the honorable senator has quoted from is written against recruiting. 
It is against recruiting. 
The writer makes general statements, many of which are not true. It is not true to say that the soldiers who have returned are being badly treated, and it is not true to say that wealthy men are not going to the front. 
One swallow does not make a summer. It is not true to say, generally, that the returned soldiers have been badly treated. 
Why not let the Germans send their own agents here to write straight-out articles against recruiting? 
I think it is fairly obvious that what  Senator Blakey  has in view is not the abolition of a particular regulation, but of the censorship altogether. I take this motion as indicative of that. I do not think it is capable of any other interpretation after having heard what he had to say. One of the reasons why I say this is that the amended regulation really does not grant a very great extension of power to the censor. It certainly makes his power clearer in regard to particular subjects. The old regulation is rather narrowed down to the methods of recruiting or of raising troops for service in any of  His  Majesty's Forces. Honorable senators who admit that a censorship is necessary, and that we cannot carry on a war effectively against an enemy like Germany without it, will see that after all that is a very great, limitation of the power of censorship in relation to matters dealing with the war. After all, the power to censor matters relating to recruiting and to the raising of troops is one which merely interferes to a certain extent with the enemy's power to create a public opinion which will prevent us from recruiting the members of our community. I desire honorable senators to strip their minds of all humbug in connexion with this matter, and to remem ber that Germany has spent millions of pounds on a press propaganda in the United States of America and right through Europe, and not to be such fools as to blind themselves to the fact that Germany has spent money in Australia for the same purpose. The censorship is the only way we have of fighting that, We cannot fight it with bullets and bayonets. The division upon the motion will show whether honorable senators are prepared to rob us of the only arm by which we can fight Germany here. The mere fact that the Prime Minister and myself have misused or wrongly used the power of censorship is quite beside the question. That may be a perfectly legitimate complaint upon which to base a motion of censure either on  Mr. Hughes  or myself. 
That may be so. But I wish the country to know that this motion is not intended to achieve that purpose, but to destroy the power that we have to protect ourselves against the enemies of our country. 
It is absolutely true. There are men in this country who are prepared to write in favour of Germany. 
We will, when we find them. 
Action has been taken, and when action has been taken they have not been without friends in Parliament who objected to that action. 
Let those whom the cap fits wear it. 
I am not saying anything extreme when I say that this motion is an attempt to wrest from the Government of this country the  only  power it has of protecting Australia against German agents, and the friends of Germany who will use the power of  the press to injure the Allied cause in the Commonwealth. When it was pointed out to  Senator Blakey  that if this statutory rule were destroyed, the original regulation would remain, he replied, " We will kill the other thing after we have killed this." He would not only prevent us having the power of censorship - the power to prevent the enemies of Britain writing in the interests of Germany on matters respecting this war - but he would even prevent us having the power to protect ourselves in the matter of recruiting and the raising of troops. 
 I am telling  Senator Blakey  the object of his motion. The Government are under no misapprehension as to what he means. 
Order; that is not a point of order. 
The honorable senator must not contradict me. 
I .have no power to compel the Minister for Defence to withdraw a general statement. If he mentioned any honorable senator in a way that reflected on him personally, I would call upon him to withdraw. If any honorable senator will say that the statement of the Minister was a reflection on himself, I will request the Minister to withdraw it. 
 Senator O'Keefe  has stated that he regards the remarks of the Minister as a reflection on himself. I therefore ask the Minister to withdraw the statement, so far as it has any reference to  Senator O'Keefe. 
Is the honorable senator rising to a point of order? 
The honorable senator is not entitled to do that. He is only entitled to ask for the withdrawal of any statement which he regards as being offensive to himself. 
J desire to point out what are the actual facts. The facts are that the Minister for Defence said that certain agents of Germany were disseminating statements- 
Order. The Honorable senator has no right to interrupt whilst I am on my feet. The facts are that  Senator Pearce  said that certain agents of Germany were disseminating throughout Australia statements which, were detrimental to the cause of the Allies, to Great Britain, and to ourselves. He said that that fact was well known to the Government, and that these men were not without friends in Parliament. That is the statement which he made, and it cannot be taken to apply to every member of Parliament. It might be taken to apply to one or more members whom he considers to be friends of those agents. That is the exact position, and if any honorable senator considers that the statement is a reflection on himself, I shall ask  Senator Pearce  to withdraw it. 
I dare the honorable senator to doubt my word. 
Because I am here in a judicial capacity, and I challenge any honorable senator to say that I have ever misused my position while I have been in .the chair. So long as I  remain in this position I shall continue to act as I have always done, in an absolutely fair 'and impartial way,and to treat every question from a purely judicial stand-point, without fear or favour from any individual or eitheT side of the Senate. I took particular note of what  Senator Pearce  said, because I could see it was calculated to raise dissension or disorder. I have given a careful and exact statement of what took place, and I have ruled that  Senator Pearce  has not made a general reflection uponhonorable senators. 
I desire tomake a personal explanation. The remark I made a moment ago was no reflection upon you, sir, in your position as  President.  I simply asked that you should call upon the  Hansard  reporter to read his note of what occurred. You are not infallible in memory, and I simply meant that you might have made a mistake. I wanted the  Hansard  note to be read to prove what  Senator Pearce  did say. 
SenatorBlakey . - What paper do the Germans use ? 
How many sons of Ireland have gone to the war from Australia ? 
SenatorFindley. - Who is the man? Give us his name and address. 
I regret the attitude adopted by the Leader of the Government here. He has drawn, in his superior manner, a line in which he says, "You may vote, but those who vote on the opposite side will be disloyal." I tell the honorable senator that the members of the party on this side are not children. We can compare our record with that of the Prime Minister, and it is as loyal as his. If the Minister for Defence thinks that he can scare honorable senators into getting behind him by merely saying that we are trying to strip the Government of power- 
We are trying to strip the Government of a power which they have used in a way not only discreditable to themselves, but to Australia. I am not going to seek shelter by saying that the censor officers may not have made mistakes. I venture to say, however, that they have administered the regulation with much more justness than has the Right Honorable W. M. Hughes. The Prime Minister has interfered with their administration. He has compelled the officers to use the power in a way in which Parliament never believed it would be used. They have misused their authority under the instructions received from  Mr. Hughes  and his secretary,  Mr. Garran. 
It is the reason of the motion. When it comes down to a question of whether we should leave extreme power in the hands of a Government that are not fit to be trusted, I say that the weaker we can make that Government the better. 
Under the regulation the Prime Minister can penalize country newspapers if they publish anything about the war without having first submitted the matter to the censor. That is a power which should not be given to that gentleman. The regulation, as amended, would work out in such a way that any one would be guilty of an offence who published such information. The Minister for Defence was rather curious to know how I intended to vote, because I was a member of the Government which passed the regulation, for which, of course, I take full responsibility. I am speaking because I shall not have an opportunity of voting, since I have paired with  Senator Millen. 
I will vote for the cancellation of this and every other regulation which  Mr. Hughes  interferes with or administers, because during the last two months it has been shown that he is a man who should not be intrusted with any powers in the exercise of which the liberties of the people may be at stake. I have here a simple statement in proof - of that. He left Melbourne a few days before the referendum, and his secretary,  Mr. Garran,  gap.e instructions from him to the censor that he was not to allow the publication of anything that certain Ministers might say. I am not surprised that  Senator Lynch  should not be listening while I make this statement. The gentleman who is responsible for the maladministration of these regulations left an instruction with  Mr. Garran,  which was conveyed to the censor, that he was not to publish anything that his Ministers might say, and the Ministers referred to were  Senator Russell, Mr. Higgs,  and myself. 
I agreed not to participate in the debate, and I kept my word to the end. Those who know me know that when I give a promise I keep it. 
It is not a question of hardship.  Senator de  Largie does not appear to be able to see what we are driving at. It is a question of some one who is absolutely unfitted for responsibility being in a position to override every Department in the Commonwealth. If the censorship were in the hands of  Senator Pearce,  I would have no hesitation in giving him the most extreme powers, but when  Senator Pearce  says that certain matters should not appear, and  Mr. Hughes  gives orders that they must appear, it is time that the Parliament and the people became aware of the dangerous powers that are at present in the hands of a dangerous man. 
I can quite understand that to  Senator Lynch  it may appear to be merely trifling to have a regulation in force under which a man is given power to prosecute any newspaper proprietor. 
I can quite understand that interjection from  Senator Bakhap  when questions are raised as to the loyalty of members of the Senate. I venture to say that those who raise them are the friends of Germany. If there is German money in circulation in this country, I say that honorable senators who try to make out that Australian people and members of the Australian Parliament are getting some of it,- ought to be getting it themselves if they are not, because they are earning it. The man who tries to make out that there is any disloyal section in this community is a friend of Germany, and so is the man who tries to turn every question that is raised upon that issue. 
For two years in this country during the continuance of the war we had absolute unanimity amongst our people. There was absolute loyalty to the Empire. Nothing asked for by Parliament was refused or conceded with a grudging voice. Millions of money were passed here in a few minutes, and what was asked for by the Government was not questioned throughout the country. At the end of this period we are told that we are disloyal if -we dare to vote against a regula tion requiring newspaper proprietors and others to first submit to the censor any statement that they wish to make concerning the war, and under which, if certain statements are made in innocence by a Labour newspaper, the proprietors may have their newspaper confiscated, or be brought before magistrates and fined. 
I am not dealing with editors who, in the honorable senator's opinion, may not have given him fair play. 
I do not pretend to be immaculate. So far as the party is concerned, it is the same party that brought  Senator Lynch  into the public life of this country. 
It was the same party, and it remains the same. Its principles are unchanged. 
No doubt, it will be quite delightful to get a big piece of history from the honorable senator byandby. The fact remains that there has been no change in the principles, platform, or pledge of the party which sent the honorable senator and myself to the Senate. 
I can agree, while exchanging heated arguments with the honorable senator. 
I find that I would not be in order in answering questions of that kind, and I do not wish to put myself out of order. So far as  Senator Russell  and other honorable senators are concerned, I am aware of no one connected with the Labour movement who was expelled from the Labour party unless he had first deserted it. 
If the Government will agree that this regulation is, in the opinion of a majority of the Senate, altogether too drastic, and will submit one more worthy of consideration, I venture to say that there are members of the Senate who are prepared to listen to reason, and consent to a regulation giving all the power that is really required. But the Government simply say, ' ' If you vote against the allowance of this regulation, and if you take this power from us, you are disloyal, and we shall let the people see where you stand . " In the circumstances, I am prepared to vote against the allowance of the regulation. I may be said to have already voted, because I have paired upon the motion with  Senator Millen.  I am against the regulation, because it has been used by the Prime Minister in a way in which it should never have been used. Further, I am going to vote on every occasion that presents itself to strip this Government of every power, because it is exercising powers which, constitutionally, it should not exercise. It is continuing in office without a majority in Parliament. 
I can promise my honorable friend that we shall have several votes upon it. 
If our party were asked to conduct the business of the country to-morrow, we should at once undertake the duty, and appeal to the people. I am not offering advice to the Government that I am not. prepared to follow myself. The constitutional rule is that no party can govern without a majority in Parliament. 
I recognise that no man can foresee the result of an appeal to the electors, but I know that, after the election, it will be the people's party, with a majority of the people behind them, that will conduct the government of the country. At the present time that cannot be said of the Government. Regulation 187 covers all the powers of censorship that are necessary, and more powers than any Government under the leadership of  Mr. Hughes  should be intrusted with. It is his leadership and his administration that has caused the difficulty. Of course, censorship will cause some friction in any case. A conference of Labour people that expelled some of my honorable friends has admitted, by resolution, that censorship is necessary, and has complained only of its abuse. 
They recognised that a power of censorship is necessary in the hands of the Government. We recognise that, and are supporting it, and I assert that the man who votes for censorship within reason is calculated to do the country more good than one who insists upon an extreme, form of censorship, such as that in existence at the present time. 
There is no question that it is, and, so far as the honorable senator is concerned, unfair to him. lt is my purpose to remove from the Prime Minister, who, not satisfied with mismanaging his own Department, wants to interfere in every other Department, a power of censorship that is unnecessary. The censorship of our political discussions, and of the ordinary news concerning the war, to which the people are entitled, is quite unnecessary. We are a British community, and we do not need our war news served up to us with a scrupulous regard for our feelings. We want the truth, and the bare truth. If the news is such as to show that greater efforts on our part are needed, those who are conducting the business of the country will be in a better position than they are in to-day to ask for  the recruits  who are so much needed. I am not quite sure of the number supporting the Government in the Senate. I think there are ten or eleven definite followers of theirs. If the eleven who want  to  control the business of the Senate wish, in a great emergency like this, to live altogether free from racial hatred and disturbances, why do they not go a' little farther, and endeavour to create harmony between the sections of the people who are represented in this Parliament? Are they doing it ? I venture to say that they are attempting to discuss every question with a view to making it appear that all who disagree with them are enemies of the Empire. Now, I am the sort of man who, when anybody unfairly attempts to injure a friend, will stand by that friend in order to show my resentment against what I conceive to be an unjust method of attack. I hope that the Senate will insist that that portion of the regulation should be abolished which makes it an offence for any matter to be published relating to or arising out of the war without first being submitted to the censor. Take the case of the Ballarat  Echo.  Let us assume that a piece of news is obtained just in time for publication. Are the proprietors of that journal to wait for two clays before publishing it in order that it may first be submitted to the censor? Some time ago we had a censor in the newspaper offices of Melbourne, but even then our action was misunderstood by the proprietors of those journals. They thought that he was placed there for the purpose of hindering them, when, as a matter of fact, he was put there for the purpose of helping them. However, it is impossible to have censors in every newspaper office throughout Australia. Notwithstanding all the statements that have been made in regard to anticonscriptionists in this country, I venture to say that there is very little difference, from the stand-point of loyalty to the Empire, between man and man. We want to win this war, but those who take the view that all who differ from them are less loyal to the Empire are underestimating the manly intelligence of Australia. 
That statement is not in accord with  Senator Story's  usual good judgment. We wish to win the war. We are as much interested in winning it as anybody else. 
By wisely controlling the government of this country. 
We have quite a genius here. He first asks me how we are going to win the war, and then says we are going to win it by talk.  Senator Blakey  has put forward a proposal which, on any other occasion, would have been accepted without the lengthy statement which he made -in submitting it.  His  statement was not one bit too long, because it was crammed with good illustrations showing that this regulation had been used in a way to which British people must object. 
There should be the firmest control over them. 
I would take from them a misconceived regulation - a regulation which was given a trial for three months, and which during that time proved that in the hands of  Mr. Hughes  it was an absolute impossibility. For two years the war went on without this regulation. For two years Germany's agents were free to spend money as they pleased. I agree with the Minister for Defence that the man who does not think that German money will be used in this country is adopting an ostrich-like attitude by shutting his eyes to the facts. 
I say that amongst my party there is no German money, and no suspicion of German influence. 
But I know from the newspapers of the United States of America that millions of pounds were spent by Germany in propaganda work there. Consequently, I think that similar efforts will be made here. The man who wishes the Empire to stand foursquare to every wind that blows is the man who will act as a Britisher in panic time. I do not hesitate to say "that the worst acts committed under the regulation which we are discussing were the deliberate acts of  Mr. Hughes,  who compelled the censor to do things which the Minister for Defence had already done in a proper way. If I could be assured that the administration of this regulation would be left in the hands of  Senator Pearce,  I would vote for" its retention. 

 - Mr. Hughes is bad enough without a regulation: but, armed with a regulation .under which he can harass every newspaper proprietor in Australia, he is a positive danger, and I am surprised- that  Senator Keating  should defend him. 
No ; because from my knowledge of him I know that it would not be used in the way that it has been used. 
We can intrust the most dangerous powers to the hands of a most capable man; but we cannot trust them to be exercised by a man like  Mr. Hughes. 
I would not mind that. If  Senator Story  will support it, I will go further, and submit a resolution affirming that the administration of this regulation does not meet with the approval of the Senate. But if I did so, both he and  Senator Keating  would find some good reason for opposing it. 
And I remember that support with very kindly feelings. I hope that this will be the last occasion on which senators on one side of the chamber will be found endeavouring to make it appear that those upon the opposite side are disloyal. Let us not here give any hope to Germany that Australia is divided. It is the duty of every honorable senator to speak the truth, which is that, in regard to this war, Australia is united. And if a voice be found here and there crying out against it, that is only what might be expected in a population as free as is our own. An honorable senator asks me whether the absence of this regulation would not be of some assistance to Germany if she  attempted  to use the press of Australia. It would be of no service whatever. The portion of it to which we object is that which compels all articles, before publication, to be submitted to the censor. As one who occupied the position of Minister for two years, I say that I never heard a complaint in regard to this want of power. 
Because, perhaps, I thought that  Senator Pearce  would administer it. But I have since learned the mistake that I made. Could anybody listen to what  Senator Blakey  said to-day without realizing that the administration of this regulation was one of the  most objectionable blots on the life of the Government of which I was a member. If something was done under that regulation of which I never dreamed, surely I am not blameworthy? Take the case of section 9 of the Act, which conferred certain powers on the Government. I say, unhesitatingly, that if that section were . under consideration tomorrow, I would not vote for it, because of the way in which its provisions have been abused. 
When section 9 was under consideration, I did not doubt that it would be used for the purposes for which all thought it would be used; but in view of the way in which it has been used, I would not vote for it again. This regulation occupies exactly a similar posi tion ; we have witnessed three months of its administration. The whole of the evils which accrued in that period have not been put before the Senate. But because of our experience of its operation, we are satisfied that it is an objectionable regulation which ought to be repealed. If the Government say that the abolition of that regulation strips them of power, I invite them to-morrow to introduce a short Bill into this Chamber conferring upon them not exceptional powers in this direction, and to see 'how it will be treated. We all know that government by regulation is merely intended to fill in the gaps between the periods when Parliament is sitting. 
And never did I think that a man who could see so clearly as the honorable senator, could make such blunders. The honorable senator did remind us all of the dangers attendant upon government by regulation, and now, when the most glaring misuse of a regulation is put before him, it will be interesting to watch how he will vote. I shall await the division with interest, in order that I may see whether he gives effect to his preaching. The honorable senator has always been one of the champions of government by legislation, and not by regulation. I think that he is the only unofficial member of his party. If  Senator Senior  is the whole of the Government support apart from those holding official posts, he occupies a remarkable position. 
Are there others ? 
I did not notice  Senator Buzacott  on the other side, and I apologize to him for not including him with  Senator Senior. 
I do not know any others, or I would. I notice that the press wants now to take from us our name of the Australian Labour party, and tack on to us that of the Official Labour party. It seems to me that one of the conditions for following the Government section of the Labour party is that you must have an office. I am against the regulation, and support its repeal.  Senator Blakey  made out a good case against it. If the Government claim that the motion will strip them of power, I invite them immediately to introduce a Bill to give, them all the power necessary. If they do, I promise them that any reasonable measure providing satisfactory security for the liberty of the people will have the support of the Opposition. By the carrying of the motion the Government will lose no power. They will lose no power by the regulation being taken out of the hands of the Prime Minister. I mention him because he goes right over the top of other Ministers to enforce his views. He steps above even such a Minister as the Minister for Defence, and releases for publication on the eve of an election matter censored weeks before by  Senator Pearce.  If the regulation is repealed, the Prime Minister will no longer have power to bring the country press, the Labour press, and other papers to book for publishing articles without first submitting them to the censor. 
Germany has very much power now, which will never be made greater by any one sitting on this side of the Senate. If the honorable senator likes to live on the anti-German cry, he may repeat it parrot-like as often as he cares, but he know3 that it does not carry conviction when applied to men who are known in the communities they represent. It does not carry conviction when applied to men who, before they ever reached the Senate, have undergone the test that all members have to undergo before they get here. No man in thi3 Senate is disloyal, and nobody knows it better than the honorable senator. No man in this Senate can have even the suspicion of disloyalty cast upon him. I am speaking for all parties when I say that. Of course, if you throw mud enough, some of it will stick, and I dare say, if the honorable senator picks upon an expression that some one has used and twists it, he may lead some people who do not know the facts to believe what he says, and so gain a vote or two, but is it worth while ? The position is too serious for these . childish accusations. We should try to overcome the inclination to put the other fellow in a bad position. 
I value  Senator Findley's  frowns the same as I value  Senator Lynch's  smiles. The Senate for two years have given the Government everything they have asked for that should be given. That, in itself, ought to have induced the Leader of the Government here to admit at once that the indictment against the regulation was proved, and to own frankly and with dignity that the use to which the regulation had been put was not such as to warrant its continuance. If the Government consider that to lose it would strip them of certain power, they can remedy this to-morrow by introducing a Bill to give them the power they want.  Senator Senior  has warned me of the dangers of government by regulation. Will he assist me now to get back to government by legislation ? 
No doubt.  Senator Pearce's  claim that the motion will assist German agents or their friends is so ridiculous that I cannot help repeating it. The more I look at it, the more I realize that not only this regulation, but this Government, must be removed. 
That is the real trouble. The regulation is one of the little troubles that we are able to remove. The fact that there is a Government in power ' without a majority in Parliament is the real danger to this country, and the real help, if help there be, to the German side. A Government without the confidence of the people administering a regulation of that kind, and afraid to appeal to the people for their confidence, surely ought to be deprived of power. 
I have heard of boys whistling to keep their courage up, but whistling is an accomplishment which I could ne%7er learn. 
The regulation is irritating and annoying to the 'conductors of the country press. It inter feres with their business, and prevents them from commenting upon and imparting news of the war. They are among the most loyal men in this&lt; country. 
The honorablesenator is, of course, an authority on them. I do not happen to know any, or any friends of Germany. If I did, I would see if I could not hand them over to the proper authorities, to be dealt with properly. This regulation, whose repeal certain people say will give Germany extraordinary power, has -been in existenceonly three months, and I challenge' those who defend it to produce anything that would have helped Germany that it has been used to suppress.  Senator Blakey  produced a number of instances which proved that the regulation has been used to suppress information that would havehelped the people of Australia to a wider knowledge of what is happening, and that would not have helped Germany at all. I challenge the supporters of the regulation to produce any censored articles or statements in regard to which the regulation has helped to preserve us from German influence. 
I did not hear him cite one case where the regulation was used to counteract German influence. 
I do not think the honorable senator should publish anything that would give an advantage to the enemy. I have paired with  Senator Millen  against the regulation, because it is harassing and annoying to the community, and a dangerous power in the hands of a dangerous man. If the Go'vernment want legislation, let them introduce it. 
If the honorable senator had heard my speech, he would have heard me say that there was some one who could administer it satisfactorily. I do not make any particular claim to be able to administer regulations. It is a most difficult business, and it will be much more satisfactory when we can get the community to first hear the laws debated in Parliament. They will then be ready for what they have to live under, and can obey or disobey at their pleasure, paying, of course, the penalties if they do -disobey. This regulation has been shown to have been a great danger to the liberties of the people, many of whom have been prevented:, in their ordinary civil life, from expressing their opinions in an ordinary and intelligent manner. Words have been struck out of articles, making them meaningless. Writers have been compelled by the electoral law to sign articles when the words that gave sense and smoothness to them have been deleted by the action of the censor. That should not happen. The Government should have all the power it asks for to cope with German interests and German influence. I venture to say that I have the whole of my party with me when I make that statement; but those powers must not be used to deal with British interests and British people, or with what I hold even -dearer - Australian interests and Australian people. A distinction must be made between the two things. I put the whole blame on the shoulders of one man -the Prime Minister. If it is true, as we say it is, that the Government have misused it to injure the Australian community, I ask not only the party sitting behind me, but all those others who believe in preserving our liberties, to take care that this pernicious regulation shall not exist after this evening. 
It is regrettable that the opening and the closing words in  Senator Pearce's  speech, in reply to  Senator Blakey,  were so remarkable.  His  opening .words were that those members who supported the motion for the disallowance of this amended regulation would prove that they were friends of Germany, because they would take away from the Government all the power required so far as the censorship was concerned.  His  closing words were addressed to  Senator Ferricks  - " I leave you and your friends to revel in the muck heap." If any man has been raking in the muck heap it is  Senator Pearce. 
Well the Minister may elect to leave the chamber.  His  -attitude during this debate reminds me of a parent trying to correct a child who may have been playing truant, because the Minister threatens that if members of this Chamber vote* for the disallowance of the regulation he will prove them to be friends of Germany, and enemies of the Empire. It is just about time that members of the Senate proved themselves men, and not children. Too long has it been the practice of Ministers to threaten a member that if he takes a certain line of action he will be labelled in a certain manner, but I am prepared to be put in the pillory, if necessary, as  Senator Pearce  evidently desires. I am prepared, by the vote I am about to give, to put myself in the prisoner's dock, so to speak, and leave my future to the verdict of a jury which has much more power than  Senator Pearce.  That jury will be the people of Western Australia, who sent  me  here. 
The honorable gentleman knows what I mean. I refer to a statement by  Senator Pearce  which means that he would place all of us in the prisoner's dock if we dared to vote in a certain direction. According to the Minister, we will then be enemies of the Empire and friends of Germany. I want to draw attention to the fact that while  Senator Pearce  was addressing the Senate he said that Germany had friends in this Parliament. 
What .were his words, then ? 
 Senator Pearce  said that Germany had friends in this Parliament. 
It remains for  Senator Pearce  to prove whether or not he used those words. I ask him to name any member of this Parliament who is a friend of Germany. It is regrettable that any member of Parliament should say that there are friends of Germany in this Parliament, or, indeed, in any other Parliament of Australia. He should be prepared to give the names.  Senator Lynch  interjected just now that  Senator Pearce  did not say '' this Parliament."- 
In reply to that, I suggest that  Senator Pearce  should produce his  Hansard  proof to-morrow, and if he can prove then, that he did not say that Germany had friends in Parliament, 1 will apologize to him. 
Will  Senator Pearce  take my word ? He did not this afternoon, at all events. 
The Minister can prove his statement if he likes. My point is that  Senator Pearce  made an accusation against members either of this Parliament, or of some other Parliament. Where are those friends of Germany? Which Parliament did  Senator Pearce  mean? Was it the National Parliament of Australia, a State Parliament, or was it the Imperial House of Commons? If Germany has friends in any Parliament in the British Empire will  Senator Pearce  give us the names of those members? Surely that is a broad enough margin for the Minister to work upon. 
I want  Senator Pearce  to state which Parliament h«* meant - whether any Parliament in Australia or the Parliament in some other portion of the British Empire, because I want to find out where are those friends of Germany.  Senator Pearce  knows quite well why  Senator Blakey  submitted his motion. He desires to restrict the powers of censorship, and I want to know what crime we shall be committing if we disallow the regulation. The only crime that I can see is that we shall get back to the position as it existed on the 30th August, 1916, and before the amended regulation was issued. 
Yes, we are wiser but sadder men . because of thu manner in which the various regulations, under cover of the War Precautions Act, have been administered. That administration has been a lesson to us. We will not hand ourselves over body and soul to the Executive of any Government, be they Labour, Fusion, or Confusion. Wl: at we desire particularly is to strike out these words in the amended regulation - which relates or refers to the present war, or to any subject connected therewith or arising therefrom. 
That is 'all we are attempting to do. We are simply asking the present Government to carry on under the regulation which existed up to the 30th August, 1916.  Senator Pearce  also accused those who intend to vote for this motion of preventing the enlistment of men who are willing to serve in  His  Majesty's Forces abroad. I intend to vote for the motion. I am prepared at any time to take the platform in advocacy of voluntary recruiting. Still,  Senator Pearce  tells me from his place as Leader of the Senate that if I vote for the disallowance of the regulation, I shall retard voluntary enlistment. Now I come to the matter of the censorship.  Senator Pearce  claims that the Government should have absolute power to censor everything " which relates or refers to the present war" - those are the words - "or to any subject connected therewith or arising therefrom." 
It is absolute, for there is no escape. It is a drag-net, which brings in every conceivable reference to anything in connexion with the war. It is to be, " Please  Mr. Censor  can I say this? " or " Please  Mr. Censor  can I say that? " I wonder that  Senator Pearce  did not censor the placards used in the referendum campaign. 

 - Senator Pearce knew  perfectly well that on various hoardings in Western Australia there were exhibited placards such as the one " The Kaiser desires you to vote No." 
I did not pay much attention to the colours. 
Can the honorable senator say that the Kaiser did desire us to vote " No " ? 
I ask  Senator Newland  if I am a friend of the Kaiser because I voted " No " and asked people to vote "No"? 
Then what is the inference to be drawn ? 
That is bandying with words. The honorable senator would not for a moment make such a statement to me now, and I do not think that he ever made it outside, for he is too much of a man to say such a thing as that. These placards were exhibited on the hoardings, and the Defence Department knew that they were there. Why were not the words of the placard submitted to the censor? 
They were not, but if they had been submitted to the censor was it right that imputations should have been levelled at the citizens of Australia who acted from the dictates of their conscience in exercising the franchise and were determined to vote "No"?  Senator Guy  has just asked me timely, "Did the Kaiser desire the soldiers at the front to vote ' No ' ?" 
Would those soldiers be called cowards, traitors, mongrels, curs, Huns, and pro-Germans? 
Will the honorable senator attach that stigma to them ? 
The honorable senator's own son is at the front offering his life in the service of his country. 
I am not asking the honorable senator how his son voted. 
Let me not be misunderstood. If the honorable senator's son desired to exercise his right as an Australian citizen at the front to vote "No," he would not debar him of it? 
Would the honorable senator class his son if he had voted " No " as a traitor, as disloyal? 
No, and I am proud of the honorable senator; but there are men he is supporting to-day who have classed such men as traitors, disloyalists, curs, and mongrels. 
Whatever may be the result of the vote I am about to give, it will not be given with the  inten-*  tion of depriving the Government of powers of censorship. I want that to be borne in mind. I know it is imperative that the Government of any country should have powers of censorship during a time of war., and particularly during a war of the nature of the present one. But I think it is time that Parliament stepped in and said to the Government, " These powers of censorship shall go so far, and  no farther."  I will make another statement. If it had not been for the too strict censorship exercised in Great Britain there would have been no need to introduce conscription there. It was because the censorship was so strict that her people did not know where they were. They could not learn from the columns of the newspapers tho true position on the Eastern or Western front,' or the situation in the Balkans. They were fed up with certain kinds of cables and news. The real news which they should have received they were deprived of by too strict a censorship. I venture to say that if the manhood of the British Isles had known the true position, conscription never would have been a law on the British statute-book. 
The censorship was too strict to let the manhood of Great Britain know exactly how they were situated. 
No. There would have been no necessity to have a vote on conscription in Great Britain if the truth had really been known to the manhood. Whilst I agree entirely with the necessity of a censorship, I think it would be foolish on the part of this Parliament to hand over to the Government absolute powers such as this amended regulation suggests. Why? Talk about government by regulation or government by legislation. During the past two years we have practically been governed by regulation. This session commenced on the 8th October, 1914, and may go on for some time yet. Practically during the greater part of that period Parliament has not governed. The Executive has governed. I admit that I was a party to the War Precautions Act under which regulations have been made time and again. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.31 to8 p.m. 

I have said that government by regulation has been in force for some time. Now that  Senator Pearce  is present, I desire to repeat my challenge to him in connexion with what he had to say in replying to  Senator Blakey.  The honorable senator did say that there were friends of Germany in this Parliament. When I accused himof this, the Minister for Works, who was temporarily in charge of the Chamber in the absence of the Minister for Defence, interjected that  Senator Pearce  did not use the word " this." I then said that 1 would challenge  Senator Pearce  to name the members of Parliament he referred to, and to say in which Parliament there are friends of Germany. I want the honorable senator now to tell the Senate and the nation, to use his own phrase, which Parliament he refers to. 
Did the honorable senator use the words ' ' There are friends of Germany in this Parliament " ? 
I Say that the honorable senator did use them. 
The honorable senator certainly used the word " Parliament ". 
SenatorNEEDHAM. - I adhere to my statement, and I believe that  Hansard  will prove that the honorable senator said, " There are friends of Germany in this Parliament." 
The Minister for Works says that the honorable senator did not use the word " this," and I wish the Minister for Defence to tell the nation now which Parliament he referred to. I wish him to say whether he referred to the Federal Parliament, to any State Parliament in Australia, or any Parliament in the British Dominions. If there are friends of Germany in any of these Parliaments, the sooner the people concerned know their names the sooner will they be able to get rid of them. In justice to  Senator Pearce,  I have repeated my challenge, and I leave it to him to decide whether he will respond to it. I might summarize my statement by saying that I accept his challenge that if I vote for the disallowance of this regulation I shall be assisting to strip tne Government of all powers of censorship. I shall not be doing anything of the sort. I shall be voting merely against giving the Government the absolute power which they have time and again exercised since the War Precautions Act has been in force. I admit that . I assisted  Senator Pearce  and the last Hughes Government to put the War Precautions Act on the statute-book. I accept my share of responsibility for doing that, but I little dreamt at that time that I was creating a Frankenstein. I say now that had I thought that the administration of the Act would have resulted as it has resulted, my vote would never have been 'recorded for it. I am a sadder and a wiser man to-day than I was when I voted for that Act. 
Yes, it teaches a lot of things, and we have had sad experience of the administration of the War Precautions Act. Honorable senators recognise that, while probably the intention  of Parliament in passing every Act is to benefit and protect the people, the administration of any Act may defeat the intention of Parliament in passing it. It is in the administration of an Act that the danger lies. We have many times had proof that the War Precautions Act has not been administered in the way that this Parliament thought it would be. I repeat that in voting for the disallowance of this regulation I am not taking from the Government all powers of censorship. 
No, that is" not so. I am humbly endeavouring to retain parliamentary control of the Executive. It is possible that we may shortly adjourn, for what period I do not know, and I say that Parliament should always keep its hand on the Government. It has been proved time and again in the last few months that it would have been better for the country had Parliament continued to sit. The Government would not then have been given the latitude which they have taken advantage of. So far as the censorship of published matter is concerned, the words which it is proposed should be deleted from this objectionable regulation are - which relates or refers, to the present war, or to any subject connected therewith, or arising therefrom. 
If those words are permitted to remain part of the regulation it will give the Government absolute power to prevent any person in Australia referring in any way to anything connected with the war, unless ne first says, " Please,  Mr. Censor,  may I write or say so-and-so? " 
I admit that, and the votes of the boys at the front have also been censored, because the Government supported by  Senator Guthrie  are afraid to let the public know how our boys at the front cast their votes. 
The honorable senator knows where they are. He is a supporter of a Government that has issued a regulation preventing the people of Australia knowing how our boys at the front voted at the referendum  on  the 28th 
October. Was the honorable senator a party to the issue of that regulation ? 
Surely my honorable friend has not given up all the liberty he used to possess ? 
I should like  Senator Newland  to tell the Senate what liberty he has been deprived of which he possessed prior to the 14th November, 1916? 
I hope that  Senator Newland  will be able to justify his interjection. He should tell us -in what way he has been deprived of the liberty which as a senator he possessed prior to the 14th November, and by whom, and under what conditions he was deprived' of it. 
The honorable senator was a member of the Labour party up till the 14th November, and during the past ten years I have been present at the same  party meetings as the honorable senator, and during that time I can say that nothing occurred to deprive me of my liberty as a senator, nor has anything occurred since the 14th November to deprive me of my liberty as a member of the National Parliament of Australia. 
They are in the same category as myself. Does the honorable senator contend that the Labour party has robbed them of any privilege? My colleagues in the Senate are the Minister for Works,  Senator Henderson,  and others, and I ask them to stand up and say that they have been deprived at any time by the Australian Parliamentary Labour party of any liberty. 
I am dealing with  Senator Newland's  interjection. I want to hold him down to his own words. He said that he has greater liberty now than he possessed before. I want him to tell the Senate by whom he was deprived of his liberty? 
 Senator Henderson  was not present when  Senator Newland  made his interjection. I want  Senator Newland  to tell the country by whom he was deprived of his liberty. I want to know under which flag he serves, under which king.  Is it the Australian Labour party or the National Labour party ? 
No; I mean Napoleon Hughes. 
I mean the Right Honorable William Morris Hughes. Is the honorable senator his servitor now ? 
Then why does the honorable senator speak about having more liberty to-day ? 
I am as free a man to-day as a senator and citizen as I was when I came here. Nobody has ever attempted to deprive me of my liberty. 
I will allow the honorable senator to do that. If I did not vote for the disallowance of this regulation I would be placing the destinies of Australia practically in the hands of one man. The Minister for Home Affairs in another place has admitted that the presiding officers acted on instructions from the Attorney-General's Department, yet the Prime Minister has the temerity to affirm that- the regulations which were responsible for the resignation of three of tv-« colleagues were not issued. It is a ."'ore lawyer's quibble. The instructions were issued and were acted upon. Because the Prime Minister attempted to interfere with the secrecy of the ballot I object to placing in his hands the power that is conferred by this regulation. 
.- During the six and a half years that I have been a member of the Senate I have not heard the Minister for Defence make such a good attempt - with his usual ability and eloquence - to bolster up a bad cause as he made here to-day. Those of us who followed  Senator Blakey  this afternoon are aware that the people of Australia are vitally interested in the subject-matter of 
Hie censorship, and especially since the question of conscription became a burning one in our midst. Nothing has been productive of more trouble than this question of the censorship, and  Senator Blakey  should be commended for having afforded us an opportunity of calmly and dispassionately debating it with a view of showing the people what are the true facts of the case. 
The Minister for Defence appealed to honorable senators to be honest with themselves and not to be misled. I think that we ought rather to be honest with the people of Australia and not permit them to be misled. I was surprised indeed when  Senator Pearce  deliberately attempted to mislead the public  by the way in which he stated the case. In submitting this motion  Senator Blakey  read the objectionable regulation which was an amendment of a previous regulation. For the first two years of the war there was in existence a regulation which provided that any printed matter issued in relation to recruiting should be subject to the censorship. No objection was urged to that. It was held to be sufficient to enable the Government to effectively control the issue of pamphlets relating to matters connected with the war. Three months ago-and .this date, singularly, coincides with the period when the question of conscription first arose - that regulation, which was never before challenged, was suddenly amended, so that instead of applying merely to recruiting matters, or to the raising of troops for service abroad, it empowered the censor to control the publication of every pamphlet. 
Exactly. It was a dragnet regulation. When we as a party object, not to the regulation which was acted upon for the greater part of two years, but to this extension of it, we are told by the Minister for Defence that we are attempting to wrest from the Government the power to control traitors. That is a deliberate effort onhis part to mislead the people. 
SenatorREADY.- It will take from them the power which was given them to deal principally with pamphlets relating to conscription. When the Minister for Defence says that our intention in disallowing this additional power is to entirely destroy the censorship, I say that he is making a deliberate misstatement of facts which cannot be too strongly repudiated by any decent thinking man. 
The honorable senator's leader has stated that the object of this motion is to absolutely destroy the censorship, and to wrest from the Government the power to control traitors. Is that true ? 
I say that these powers have been used for political party purposes. 
Yes, and how a man of  Senator Pearce's  mental calibre could make such a statement I am at a loss to understand. I wish to quote two instances, which occurred during the recent referendum campaign, of th'e way in which this additional power has been misused, and of how the censorship has been unfairly used for political purposes. Both cases occurred in Tasmania. One of them is connected with the press, and the other with the issue of pamphlets. Every honorable senator is familiar with the cartoon which was published in the  Worker  of Thursday, 5th October. It depicts a blackboard on which are set out the figures relating to the number of men that were said to be required as reinforcements under the scheme of the late Hughes Government. It shows a man pointing to a blackboard on which is written - 
To be called up Hughes' scheme in one year, beginning from the first of last month, 214,000. Single men available, after allowing for those exempted by law, physically unfitted, and industrially indispensable, 70,000. Shortage to be made up by married men, 144,000. As the drafts for September, October, and November will absorb 65,500 men, they will be tearing the married men from their homes about Xmas. Vote "No" and put a stop to this iniquity. 
That was headed " A Simple Sum." It was published in the  Worker.  The  Daily Post,  Hobart, obtained the block and reproduced it. What happened? The censor refused to allow it to be published either in the  Daily Post  or in the form of a pamphlet. In proof of this I propose to read the actual letters that are in my possession from the censor himself. The first is from the assistant censor and is dated Hobart, 20th October. It is addressed to the editor of the  Daily Post,  Hobart. It roads - 
Publication of the submitted placard you send for censoring is prohibited, as I have no means of ascertaining the correctness of the figures given. - 
A rather flimsy excuse - 
You had better submit them to headquarters, Anglesea Barracks, Hobart, for verification, and send in the reply you receive. The figures are given on a separate sheet of paper enclosed herewith. I retain the placard, as no duplicate has been furnished to me. (Sgd.) T. M. Evans, Col. 
They were official figures. The paper was simply making its own deductions, but the cartoon was not allowed to be published in Tasmania, although it was published all over . Australia, and passed by the New South Wales censor. Honorable senators can imagine how irritating that kind of thing would be to the proprietors of a newspaper, with no time to get the decision altered before the poll was taken. That case alone is sufficient to justify any one in voting for the repeal of the regulation, to say nothing of the instances quoted by  Senator Blakey. 
I have an even worse case. The original message was published two days before the poll in the Brisbane  Daily Standard,  the proprietors of which. I understand, are to be prosecuted for it, if they have not already been prosecuted. I have here the original censor's message in relation to the matter, showing that the censorship was used for political and partisan purposes to prevent facts reaching the people which they had every right to get before they voted "Yes" or "No" at the referendum . This is what appeared in the  Standard, - 
It passed the censor in England. After it appeared in the Brisbane  Standard,  the censors took no risks. They wired every paper in Australia,so I understand, telling them that the message was not to be republished. This is the wire sent to the editor of the  Daily Post,  Hobart - 
I presume for publishing it. When one sees other messages starred and headlined, including a message from Jacka, the story of  Mrs. Hughes'  unfortunate experience with the burglar a message from General Haig, and soldiers' letters from the front, and this message refused publication, every man whose brain is not perverted must admit that the censorship has been conducted in a biased and partisan way. The Senate ought to raise a warning finger to the censor, telling him that it intends to see that his abuse of his powers is watched and curtailed. He should be told that anything he does in the future will receive our closest scrutiny. He can take this motion as a decisive and necessary lesson, showing that we do not intend to permit unbridled and unlicensed censorship in the future. I shall do nothing which would hinder the Government in the successful prosecution of the war. I shall help them with any recruiting scheme, or in any other way in my power ; but while I can prevent it I shall not allow something to continue which inflicts irritation and trouble on the people at a time when we need a*ll our unanimity and every ounce of our solidarity. I shall vote for the motion in the hope .that the censor will take it as a warning to endeavour in the future, in dealing with pamphlets and newspapers, to hold the scales fairly and evenly, giving exactly the same treatment to every section and every political party. 
The unusual vim and activity infused by the Minister for Defence into his remarks this afternoon would lead one to believe that he has become affected by that recently discovered disease known as  lynchitis.  Although he could not equal the physical gyrations of his colleague, the Minister for Works, he rivalled him in the .exaggeration and. extravagance of his language. 
I presume the Minister refers to a Western Australian friend of mine,  Mr. E.  J. Dunne, who was the anti-conscription candidate opposing  Mr. Scaddan. 
If  Mr. Scaddan  is the Labour candidate, give me the antiLabour. However, I shall have an opportunity of returning to that theme when we come to Supply. What struck me most this afternoon was the highlycoloured picture painted by the Minister for Defence as to the illeffects which would follow - there was no " might " about what he said - the carrying of the motion moved and explained so ably and fully by  Senator Blakey.  The Minister implied that if the regulation was repealed the newspapers would be able to chronicle the departure of the transports, and that the holding up of transports would result. 
The Minister said that everything to the detriment of Australia, as one of the most important self-governing Dominions, and to Great Britain herself, could be published through the repeal of Regulation 204. But, although he professed to believe that all these ill-effects would follow, he actually, earlier in the afternoon, acquiesced in that action being taken by the Senate without attempting to offer a note of warning. When the motion standing in  Senator Blakey's  name was called by the  Clerk  this afternoon, the three Ministers and the whole of their eight supporters were in the chamber. I had just arrived within the bar about halfaminute before, and was waiting for  Senator Gardiner,  or the Whip, or  Senator Mullan,  with whom  Senator Blakey  had been in communication regarding the matter, to call " Not formal." None of them did, nor did any of the three Ministers or their eight supporters. Thinking the  matter was worth discussion, and not knowing if any arrangement had been come to by my colleagues, I, on the impulse of the moment, called, " Not formal," otherwise there would have been no discussion. Was  Senator Pearce  agreeable that a regulation of the gravity which he says this one possesses should have been brushed aside, as he knows it is going to be now, without his uttering one word of protest? Either he is insincere or he is not fit to hold his present position, in view of the case he tried to buttress up to-day as to the dangers that would confront Australia in the event of the regulation being repealed. Was it the intention of  Senator Pearce  and his colleagues and supporters to thrust Australia in the vortex of this calamity for the sake of obtaining what he might believe to be a party advantage, in order that he and his party might be able to go to the country and say, " Look what the Labour majority in the Senate did " ? I think, when  Senator Pearce  sees his speech of this afternoon in cold type in  Hansard  he will be sorry for his utterance, because it was most rash, most ill-advised, and most inaccurate. Is it to go out to the world that the Leader of the Government in the highest Chamber of the National Parliament of Australia made such grave and serious statements as to the effect of German influence, not only in Australia, but in the Parliament itself ? What will the Kaiser think of that? We have been asked to consider what the Kaiser would think of the action of Australia on the referendum on 28th October, and I am entitled to ask what the Kaiser will think of this statement that Germany has friends in the Parliament of Australia? 
No. I stand corrected. The Minister did not say that Germany had friends in the Parliament of Australia, but he did say that Germany had friends in Parliament. 
SenatorSenior. - No, he did not say that. 
I do not intend to accept the honorable senator's correction there, because I heard what the Minister said.  Senator Pearce  went further.  His  remarks followed directly upon the old and unfounded charge concerning the spending of German gold in this country, and, in answer to an interjection by  Senator Keating  - " If you know that German gold is coming in to German agents, why don't you deal with them?"  Senator Pearce  replied - " We have, and when we dealt withthem we found that those German agents were not without friends in Parliament." I venture to say that is almost an exact reproduction of the actual passage of words that occurred. If  Senator Pearce  did not mean this Parliament, why did he not say so when he was challenged by his colleague  Senator Needham,  and others, who asked him to give the names of the members who he alleged were friends of German agents who received German gold for distribution in Australia for anti-British purposes? What would we think if we could read of a statement in the German Reichstag by Bethman-Hollweg - I mention him because I do not know who else would be the counterpart of  Senator Pearce  in the German Parliament - to the effect that the British Government had friends in the Parliament of Germany? Would we not regard that as a hopeful sign that Great Britain was getting a good foothold in Germany? And, therefore, is it not reasonable to assume, on the authority of the statement made by the Minister for Defence to-day, that the German people will think that they are doing all right, because, according to the Minister for Defence, they have friends in the Parlia ment of Australia? The German people would, of course, be entitled to think that the position is improving because of a statement made, not only on the authority of our Minister for War, but on the authority also of our Prime Minister. I spoke in no insincere vein this afternoon when I ventured the opinion that  Mr. Hughes  and  Senator Pearce,  at the rate they are going, are about the best friends that Germany has in Australia at the present time. Their attitude threatens to disrupt Australia. I should think that their reason would come to their aid and save them. I know that  Senator Pearce  is only emulating  Mr. Hughes,  and is running amok after him.  Mr. Hughes  has become desperate, because he has been seriously disappointed since he came back to Australia. I am entitled also to ask what does the Kaiser think of the British crisis ? 
Yes ; but I would like to know also what the British papers had to say on that subject, and we would have known but for the censorship. We would like to know also what the British papers really have to say about the British crisis, for which  Mr. Hughes  was in part responsible, because during his visit to the Old Country he was the tool of the Northcliffe press, which for the past twelve months has been endeavouring to break up the British Cabinet at any price in the interests of the Conservative party. As far back as May last I stated in this chamber that  Mr. Hughes  was being used as a tool by the Conservatives of England, and that he was the stick which the Northcliffe press was using to beat the Liberal dog with.  Mr. Hughes  was one of the tools which the Northcliffe press used, and I believe he was to have been rewarded by a seat on the inner War Council. 
Will the honorable senator state what his remarks have to do with the disallowance of this regulation ? 
Australia. They are making the line of cleavage between the two factions into which Australia was divided on the 28th October more defined and more irreparable. I trust, therefore, that better judgment, or may I call it sanity, will prevail in regard to these rash statements by responsible men in the present Government. 

 Senator Lt.-Colonel Sir ALBERT GOULD (New South Wales) [9.1].- This debate is another evidence of the undesirability of having too much legislation by means of regulations. I have frequently protested here against the exercise of the powers given in various Acts to deal with very many matters by way of regulation. We know that a regulation, if it goes beyond the powers given by the authorizing Act, has in a court of law no effect. Whether the regulation under consideration goes beyond that point may be a matter of conflict of opinion amongst honorable senators; but I would remind them that Ave are not dealing now with a question which Would arise in the ordinary course of our legislation. The Government have had a very important duty thrust upon them. They have been called upon to exercise very wide and drastic powers, and these powers were deliberately placed in their hands by honorable senators. It must be recognised that it is quite impossible to provide by Act of Parliament for a multiplicity, of matters which have to be dealt with by the Government at a time like the present crisis. It has been stated that for a period of two years the Government were able to get along without this regulation. But when honorable senators made that remark they were entirely oblivious of the fact that the Government had not the power to make such regulations until the last amendment of the War Precautions Act came into force - that is the 30th May, 1916 - and that the regulation which it is proposed to annul or repeal was passed on the 30th August last. It is a very singular thing that the honorable senators who are protesting against the administration of that regulation assisted to bring it into force, because they were supporting the Government of the day. The regulation was introduced, but not one word of protest was heard from any of these honorable senators. When I find that certain honorable senators who were members of the late Government are objecting to the regulation to-day, 
I ask where they were during the period from the 30th August, when the regulation was assented to by the GovernorGeneral, to the 25th October, when they saw fit to leave the Government? Not because of this regulation, or any alleged abuse of it, but because of a new regulation which had been passed, I believe by the Executive Council, though it was not allowed to take effect, probably in consequence of Ministers finding that a mistake had been made, in attempting to thrust upon the people of the country a regulation which evidently was not acceptable to a large majority of their followers in Parliament. That was the ostensible reason given for not allowing the regulation to take effect. The honorable gentlemen to whom I have referred were willing to remain in the Cabinet while the referendum campaign was proceeding, and it was not until almost the last moment that they took the dramatic action of retiring from the Cabinet. The Military Service Referendum Bill was discussed in the Senate a month before the vote was taken, but not one word was said in regard to the regulation which we are debating to-day. In this debate, honorable senators have attempted to say that they see no objection to a regulation of this character, but they object to the way in which, it has been administered. If the regulation has been administered wrongly, that is no reason why it should be destroyed, but it is a reason why those who have so acted, if they have, should be destroyed, whether it be the censors or the Government. After having allowed matters to go as they did, honorable senators are now condemning themselves by the protest they are making. As regards many of the. matters which have been referred to to-night, I consider that the censor acted very wisely and prudently in striking out the passages, and so preventing their publication in the press. 

 Senator- Mullan. - You would not be speaking so strongly now for the Government if their financial proposals did not suit you. 
Order ! The honorable senator must not discuss that question. 

 Senator- Lt. -Colonel Sir ALBERT GOULD.- No; I think it is the duty of every man to render all the assistance he possibly can. 
All this is outside the question. 
.- When speaking in connexion with the no-conscription campaign throughout the country, I believed that the prejudices of the capitalistic press were to be blamed for the fact that they ignored the arguments used by the advocates of no-conscription during the campaign. From the disclosures which have been made in the Senate to-day, I have been led to believe that the omission of our utterances on the public platforms from the columns of the press was not due in any sense to the press but to the censor. I have been led to believe that this modest regulation, which we were unsuspicious of, was the cause of the apparently partial attitude taken up by certain newspapers during the referendum campaign. I feel somewhat disappointed at the attitude. of the Minister for Defence in dealing with this motion.  His  speech was tantamount to a charge that every member of the Senate and of this Parliament who is opposed to the views of the Government is simply a pro-German. I thought that now that a decision hai, been arrived at by the referendum the animus shown during the campaign would have ceased, but without the slightest provocation the Minister for Defence has to-day ' repeated in the same venomous manner charges which have caused so much feeling and resentment between those who should be united at this particular time. If such charges are to be repeated continually they will hinder not only the work of Parliament but the carrying on of the' War. 
I do not know that  Senator de  Largie has shown very much discretion in his talk, but, at any rate, I do not accept him as a censor of my remarks, whether made here or elsewhere. 
I have not asked for the sympathy, appreciation, or support of the honorable senator for anything I have to say. 
I am here  to  give utterance to my opinions, and I exercise my own judgment as to the attitude taken up by the Government in connexion with this motion. I say that the attitude assumed by theMinister for Defence will not assist to reconcile the differences created in connexion with the conscription referendum. I rose to protest particularly against the honorable senator's utterances concerning the attitude of the coal miners in creating a position of affairs which has induced him to suggest that they were practically the agents of Germany. I wish to utter my protest against the miners of the Commonwealth being regarded in any sense whatever as the agents of Germany. I claim that there are no more loyal subjects of the Commonwealth than are the members of this working class community. It is a libel upon honest workers of - this country to make such a suggestion as that which has been made by the Minister for Defence. I direct the attention of the Senate to the fact that some twelve months ago when shipping was required for the carriage of wheat across the seas, the coal miners were willing to produce coal, but could not find bottoms in which to ship it, and thousands of them were rendered unemployed. 
I had that intention in mind, but I was told that if on the resumption of my speech on the motion for the printing of the paper I made any reference to anything that was said during this debate, I would be immediately forbidden to proceed. 
I should be the last man to suggest such a thing, but I thought it right to give the reason which prompted me to make these references at this juncture. I do not wish to allow an opportunity such as this to pass without lodging my protest on behalf of a body of men who are as loyal and true to the Empire as are any other citizens of the Commonwealth, against the statements made by  Senator Pearce.  I need not try to justify my claim in support of the loyalty of these men, which I am sure is accepted by the community. I regret very much that the Minister for Defence should have made such a statement as that to which I have taken exception. It is not true, and the utterance of such statements tends to irritate honorable senators who are here to defend the interests of the persons charged, and who are not prepared to have loyal citizens of the Commonwealth treated unjustly. The insinuation that in opposing this regulationwe are trying to interfere with the right of the Government to control utterances of the press or of individuals which might in any way play into the hands of our enemy, and the attitude adopted by  Senator Pearce  only discloses that bias which gives rise to feeling which, if continued, must prevent the unanimity of action which we require for the proper conduct of the affairs of Parliament and the prosecution of the war. I yield to no man in my desire to protect the Government of this country from utterances or statements which might be used to play into the hands of the enemy, or to militate against the successful prosecution of thewar. 
This afternoon the Leader of the Government in the Senate, in the course of his very heated speech, made a number of remarks which even he will regret upon calmer consideration. As a member of the Senate who for sixteen years has been closely associated politically and personally with the honorable senator, it is with very deep regret and great reluctance that I have to take the most emphatic exception to the tone of his speech this afternoon. I know that interjections are disorderly, but many of us fall into the habit at times, and while  Senator Pearce  was speaking I happened to make an interjection and the honorable senator, in the heat of his speech, which could not be said to have been engendered by any misrepresentation from this side, said something about German money and German friends being not only in Australia, but in the Federal Parliament. 
What did  Senator Pearce  mean? I hope that  Senator Lynch  will remain calm, because we know what will happen if he lets himself - go. By the mass of evidence which  Senator Blakey  brought forward in support of his motion this afternoon, all but those who are determined not to be convinced must have been satisfied that this regulation is inimical to the freedom of this country. The evidence he brought forward was supplemented later by other speakers, including  Senator Ready,  who gave concrete instances of the operation of the censorship under this regulation in Hobart during the referendum campaign. The evidence submitted must convince every fair-minded man that it would be better to revert to the Original regulation of which this is an amendment.  Senator Pearce  in his defence of the regulation said he wished it to go forth through the columns of the newspapers that those who will vote for the motion to disallow the regulation are friends of Germany. No other construction could be put upon the honorable senator's speech. Knowing, as the honorable senator does, the men who have worked by his side for sixteen years in this Parliament, and have given him such loyal support as any public man could expect to receive, I say that the honorable senator should have been ashamed to make the remarks he made this afternoon. The Minister for Defence is not the only member who is eutitled to get warm on this subject. When a few interjections were made during the course of his speech - reasonable interjections - he answered them with a tirade of abuse of those honorable senators who intend to vote for this motion. He said that there were many friends of Germany in Australia, and that she had friends in Parliament. If he did not say that, I did not catch his words. The inference was that Germany has friends in this Parliament. 
The Minister for Defence is sufficiently intimate with me to know that I would not deliberately misrepresent him. 
I am addressing my remarks to the Minister for Defence, and not to the Minister for Works. The former spoke of German gold being spent in this country, and stated that Germany had friends in this Parliament. 
The Minister certainly left that impression on the minds of all honorable senators on this side of the chamber,- If he did not mean to do so why did he say in answer to an interjection, "Let those whom the cap fits wear it." 
The Minister now admits the correctness of my statement. 
Exactly. 
When the Minister affirmed that the agents of Germany had friends in Parliament, I asked him, by way of interjection, to name them, i,nd he replied, " Let those whom the cap "lswear it." There can be no question that the whole tenor of his speech this afternoon was calculated to create in the minds of the readers of the newspapers from one end of Australia to the other the impression that those who vote to disallow this regulation are the friends of Germany. 
He said that he wanted that to be understood. Every honorable senator on this side of the chamber, from  Senator Gardiner  downward, has repudiated that assertion, and I join in repudiating it. It is idle for the Prime Minister and  Senator Pearce  to go round this country claiming that because certain politicians take a different  view from themselves on a great national question like conscription, those politicians are playing into the hands of Germany. 
Certainly. It ;s such a great national question that it divided the people of Australia into two camps, more bitterly hostile to each other, than any other question has yet divided them. 
The Prime Minister, whom  Senator de  Largie is following, made it a party question to the extent of denying fair play to any man on the other side. Those who opposed conscription were described as the friends of Germany, as associates of the Industrial Workers of the World, and believers in their methods, and, indeed, were called everything that was bad. How is it that the powers of the censor, which were so ruthlessly enforced in the case of anticonscriptionist newspapers, were not applied to the powerful journals of this country? On the very day before the vote was taken, the big Melbourne newspapers published in large headlines, " Those who vote ' No ' will give a vote for Germany, and to desert the boys in the trenches." 
And they were led to believe so by the newspapers here. 
If that be so, the Prime Minister alone is to blame. He it was who, from one end of the country to the other, proclaimed that those who voted " No " would be voting for Germany.   
Here is another friend of Germany. When the people of Australia decided that they would not fasten this compulsory military curse upon the country, it was natural that the German newspapers should crow, seeing that the Prime Minister and the journals which supported him had repeatedly urged that if a " No " vote was recorded  it would be a vote in favour of Germany. 
Yes, and the Prime Minister was to blame for that. Quite enough instances have been brought forward to-day to prove that the powers of the censorship were most unfairly used during the recent referendum campaign. Whilst I do not wish to occupy time by adding to those instances, there is one case which I must mention. It will serve to show the length to which the censors were allowed to go. A few days before the vote was taken, I was speaking from anti-conscription platforms in Hobart and its suburbs. There was a secretary of the anti-conscriptionist movement there, and, naturally, he was doing all that he could to fight conscription. At the meetings that were held he made it a practice to take up a collection in order to defray the cost of the literature that was distributed amongst the people in condemnation of conscription. A few days before the poll he received a notice from the military censor in Hobart intimating that if he attempted to take up any further collections for the purpose indicated he would be prosecuted. I do not blame the Minister for Defence or the Prime Minister for that. It merely goes to show the sort of persons who had power placed in their hands under this regulation. Of course, the officer was exceeding his powers. But he took the step which he did under a regulation- 
He may have been acting under instructions issued by the Department to the effect that before any person could collect funds for Bed Cross purposes it was necessary that he should get the consent either of the secretary or chairman of the State War Council. 
It merely goes to show the limited amount of common sense that was possessed by some' of the officers who controlled* the censorship. 
I think I can obtain the original. 
Either from the military censor or the State War Council. 
At all events, the instruction was issued that no further funds should "be collected. This afternoon, in replying to that portion of  Senator Blakey's  speech which dealt with the censoring of a proposed exhibition of films dealing with Irish history,  Senator Pearce  declared, in very warm language, that if that question had been raised it would have thrown the country into a turmoil. That was a childish remark to make, because there is not an Irishman in Australia, or a descendant of an' Irish-  man, who does not know something about Irish history. 
My quarrel with the Minister is that it is childish for him to say that the exhibition referred to would have stirred them up. There is a good deal of trouble in Ireland to-day, as  Senator Pearce  well knows. The Minister implied that we should not refer to past Irish history, because' it would stir up ol'd feuds, and prevent not only Irishmen in Ireland, but Irishmen and their descendants in Australia from enlisting. Let us be honest with ourselves.  Senator Pearce  knows, as we all know, that Ireland to-day is under martial rule, if not entirely, to a very large extent. If the British authorities gave Ireland what she ought to have had long ago, and what they promised to her - self-government - so that they could withdraw their Forces from Ireland, the 100,000 extra troops which we were supposed to get under conscription in Australia would not have mattered, because they would have got that number from Ireland. In the circumstances,  Senator Pearce's  remark that the article quoted by  Senator Blakey  this afternoon would have stirred up strife if it had not been censored was a foolish one. 
I believe that the honorable senator is to-day, as he always was, an ardent Home Ruler; that is why I. cannot understand his remark this afternoon. Another instance quoted by  Senator Blakey  was an article written for the  Labour Gall  on the coal strike, and censored. It was stated by interjection from this side, when  Senator Blakey  was speaking, that if that article had been published it would have been only -telling the truth. I tell  Senator Pearce  now that if the Prime Minister had shown the strength that Australia fondly hoped for many years that, he , possessed, if he had been the strong man that we painted him, and believed him to be, there would have been no coal strike, and the tens of thousands of men and women who to-day are idle would still be following their usual occupations. The trouble was caused by the weakness of the man who, as Prime Minister, rules the destinies of this country - the man who, for some months past, according to his actions, has been not only Prime Minis- .ter, but the whole of the Government rolled into one, for we know that many of his actions have not been approved of by his own Ministers, over whom he has ridden roughshod. If he had shown the same amount of strength a day or two before the strike commenced, or within a day or two afterwards, that we all supposed he possessed, there would almost certainly have been no coal strike. 
It is quite possible for a dictator to be a weak man. He was a dictator when it came to dictating terms to the representatives of the workers, but he was weak when it came to facing the coal mine-owners. Any one who reads closely the speeches at the two conferences, will see that the whole burden of his complaint was addressed to one side only. 
It is absolutely correct. I would ask the honorable senator to read the columns of the newspapers containing the report of the two conferences. 
Read them again carefully, and see how the lectures were given by the Prime Minister, practically throughout the two conferences, to the men only. According to him, the fault was on the one side only. 
The miners representatives do not thank him for having settled the coal strike. They thank the Judge for having done, in forty-eight hours, what he failed to do in two weeks. 
The Prime Minister did, but he did not tell the Judge what to do. The Judge was able, on the evidence, to decide in twenty-four or forty-eight hours this great dispute, which was stopping the wheels of industry from one end of Australia to the other. 
I was trying to connect my remarks with the article written for the  Labour Gall  on the coal strike, and never published. I shall vote for the motion, because, like  Senator Gardiner  and others, I feel that it is absolutely dangerous to the freedom of the people ot this country that such drastic powers should remain in the hands of the Prime Minister. He has shown, if ever a man did, the most absolute partisanship in connexion with the censorship. Every one of us knows that statements which would have educated the people on the question to be decided at the referendum were not allowed to be published. We also know that practically everything the conscriptionist speakers liked to say, ur the conscriptionist press liked to write, was allowed to be printed. Because of the bitter, unscrupulous partisanship shown by the Prime Minister from one end of the campaign to the other, it will be a very good thing for ,the people of this country if the regulation is wiped out of existence and something more in conformity with the wishes and freedom of. the community substituted. 

 Senator GRANT (New South Wales; [9.52]. - Before the recent adjournment, i asked  tUe Minister for Defence if we could expect a fair deal under the regulations. At that time, and for some little time before, it had seemed to me that the War Precautions Act was not being administered by the Government as it ought to have been. In reply,  Senator Pearce  assured me that, subject to the regulations, we should get practically a fair deal. I shall vote for this motion, because in New South Wales we did not have a fair deal in the campaign. Not only was our literature censored almost out of recognition, but the local press, which sometimes does give the Labour side a small share of publicity, almost entirely shut down on the whole of our speakers. I am inclined to think now that they did this, not altogether out of opposition to anti-conscription and to Labour, but at the instigation of those administering the regulations under the War Precautions Act. But, on the whole, I do not think we lost very much  through their action. It is very annoying, of course, to see one's opponents day after day securing column after column, and page after page, of the morning and evening papers, while the side one is supporting is absolutely ignored. But ever since we became a party we have had almost all the newspapers opposed to us, and therefore it is no new thing to us to be opposed by the local press of New South Wales. The situation had this big advantage, that the public came out as they never did before, for I never saw them so interested in any question as they were in the one that has just been decided. Personally, it does not very much concern me that the regulation was administered so drastically as it was, but I do not want to take any further risks with this Ministry. I took quite enough with the last, and shall vote for the repeal of the regulation, because I believe the Government have ample powers under the previous one. If I thought the carrying of the motion would even in the remotest degree assist the Central Powers I should not give it my support, but I believe the regulation has been, and is being, used, not against the Central Powers, or their agents, but against all those Australians who oppose the present Government. For that reason, I shall vote for its repeal. 
I have listened in vain for some reasonable- argument that would justify the annulling of the regulation. I expected something tangible to be brought forward, but, so far as I can see, it is being used simply as a cloak for an attack, not on the censor, but on the Prime Minister through the censor. This has simply been a continuation of the debate we had yesterday. Not one of those who have spoken this afternoon has shown that the regulation ought to be annulled, because the censors have not done their duty. The reason they have given is that  Mr. Hughes  has too much power. 
I am not concerned with that. The regulation was laid on the table of the House on the 13th September. Not a single senator in the chamber at the time took exception to it, but on the 21st September, a week after,  Senator Ferricks  moved the adjournment of the Senate for the purpose of discussing the conduct of the censors. All this business is a show, and nothing* else. If honorable senators believed that they were giving too much power to the Government, why did they not, at that time, seize the opportunity to prevent any further power being given? 
 Senator Ready  says he did not think there would be such a misuse of the power of censorship, and yet we find that, a week afterwards, when  Senator Ferricks  raised the question, additional power was given to the Government. The whole argument, therefore, falls to the ground. When  Senator Ferricks  moved the adjournment of the debate on the occasion referred to, he incidentally mentioned something that had taken place in Adelaide, but was not quite accurate, and had to be corrected by  Senator Newland,  and the matter of these regulations has been dealt with in much the same way. When  Senator Pearce  rose to reply to  Senator Ferricks  on the occasion referred to, he proved the absolute need there was for the censorship and the. necessity for greater power. I am not permitted by the rules of debate to quote what was said then, but, if I were, I could show that the need exists to-day as then, for the increased censorship power. In their treatment of this motion to-day, honorable senators ought to have shown, not that the censors were exceeding their duty, but that the increased powers complained of were not necessary for the safety of the Commonwealth. They did not do that, and therefore they failed to prove their case. 
But I point out that when  Senator Ferricks  moved the adjournment of the debate, the honorable senator allowed the matter to pass without taking any exception to it. Amongst other things referred to on that occasion was the anxiety, on behalf of persons who had friends on board the transports, to know when the vessels were about to leave, but the Minister demonstrated how necessary it was to keep the movements of all transports secret. In spite of that, our friends would now open the floodgates. They have become uncommonly sensitive regarding statements concerning German gold, and I suggest that they should read a work called  The World in the Crucible,  as well as another work entitled  The German Conspiracies in America.  These will disclose the German conspiracies in America, and honorable senators will be able to understand the operation of the German press bureau in that country, the purpose of which is to print and circulate lies against the Allies in an endeavour to prejudice the great mass of the American people against Britain. 
Undoubtedly they are. They are being published in America and distributed by German agencies. 
 Senator Ready,  who now talks about the misuse of the powers of censorship, was in the Government when this question was raised on an earlier occasion. He knew then the need for these larger powers, and, though he was a party to the promulgation of the regulation, to-day he is as strongly opposed to them, and ready to whip the very Government he was behind only a few months ago. 
Once more the scheme is uncovered. It is not the action of the censor that honorable senators object to, so much as the Government and the Prime Minister. It really appears to be another case of - 
I do not like thee,  Dr. Fell, 
The reason why I cannot tell; 
But this I know, and know full well,  
I do not like thee,  Dr. Fell. 
That is the point of the whole argument against this regulation. Remove  Mr. Hughes  and the whole of the objections will disappear. A great deal has been said about the abuse of the censorship, but as far  as South Australia is concerned there was far greater publicity given to statements that could not be substantiated, and published over the name of the secretary of the Anti-Conscription League, than appeared in the name of the conscriptionists. 
Those of us who have passed" q through many campaigns know how difficult it has been to get money to carry on, but in South Australia during the referendum campaign we saw advertisements, published on behalf of the anti-conscriptionist cause, that must have cost five, if not ten, times as much as the advertising in any previous campaign. If that money did not come from the Germans - I do not say that it did- 
If it did not come from the Germans, all I can say is that the anti-conscriptionists must have touched wonderful springs of benevolence in the hearts of some of their people. I am not imputing that it did come from the Germans, though I have been told that those collecting money for Australia Day, at Murray Bridge, where several Germans live, had to be content with ls., but when it was a matter of contributing to the anti-conscriptionist cause they could rely upon getting  £1  from the same gentlemen. 
No, but I do say the anti-conscriptionists received it joyfully. And I do not blame them. I am not imputing anything- 
The point of the story lies in the fact that it shows very clearly where German sympathies lay. 
Yes, and I have no doubt he felt his sympathies were best expressed by anti-conscriptionist sentiments, and like a good man- 
Yes, like a good German, he contributed to those who were most like his own way of thinking. 
But I am not saying that all Germans are alike. 
What I want honorable senators to do is to face the position, and admit honestly that this motion is not aimed at the regulation so much as it is designed to cloak a vote of noconfidence in  Mr. Hughes. 
The electors of Boothby are represented by a German, and a very estimable German, too. 
The division of Boothby was the one division in South Australia that voted "Yes," showing clearly that so far as Representative Dankel was concerned, he was regarded as an Australian, although he bears a German name. 
The interjection shows how utterly ' ignorant the honorable senator is with regard to passing events in South Australia. If he will only take the opportunity of looking up the  Mail  newspaper, published in Adelaide, he will find that it  devotes  a considerable amount of space to Representative Dankel, and if  Mr. Dankel  had to face an election to-morrow, I venture to say that the  Mail  would have secured more votes for him than any other paper published in South Australia. 
If the honorable senator will look at the  Mail,  he will find that petitions are being signed calling upon  Mr. Dankel  to resign, and even as late as last Saturday night that paper was urging those who had petitions to send them in. As I have already said, supporters of the motion have failed to show that this increased power of censorship is not necessary. In order to demonstrate that such power is not required, they would have to prove that the conditions to-day were better than they were when the regulation was passed. But carried away as they have been by a false vision, a false conception, and a false estimate entirely of the ability of  Mr. Hughes  and of the sacrifices  Mr. Hughes  has made, under cover of a motion like this they now want to deprive the Government of the power conferred upon them by this regulation. Can it bc said that any man who would take, away the whole of the power contained in the original regulation is a friend" of Australia, or a friend of the Allies ? This comes with a very bad grace from my friend  Senator Gardiner,  who, when he was speaking on this question, declared that he would strip the Prime Minister, not only of the power contained in the amended regulation, but of the whole power of the original regulation. 
The honorable senator did not qualify his statement in that way. He said. " We will strip him of that power and go further still." A misuse bf a power is no reason why the Government should be deprived of power- It is a reason, when a case is proved, that the Government should be condemned or ejected, but it is not a reason for emasculating the statute-book. Honorable senators know that repeatedly I have objected to government by regulation.  It is astrange thing that those against whom I have had to battle in the past want toannul this particular regulation. If we had had more government by legislation, and less government by regulation, it is possible that this debate would not have taken place. I will not consent to strip the Government of this particular power until legislation is brought forward to take the place of the regulation. 
I' know what willremain. The honorable senator wants totake away from the Government the power to control the publication of any printed matter which deals with the war. 
The regulation, gives to the Government, not absolute powers, but prescribed powers. My honorable friends will take away the powers which relate to the war. They claim that they are valiant soldiers in this matrter, and that they are prepared to stand behind the Government in prosecuting the war. One means of prosecuting the) war is by withholding from the foe that, which would be useful to him. Another means is by withholding from the people themselves that which would be detrimental to them concerning the war. Yetour honorable friends wish to take the power away from the Government. They have failed absolutely to show that there is a justifiable reason for restricting the power. The whole of their argument has been in the direction of showing that censors have made a wrong use of the power. It is a condemnation of the censors, but the main aim is to hit the Prime Minister as far as possible. I sincerely hope that our honorable friends will be consistent and say, if they are going to stand behind the Government, " Having ventilated our views on this matter, we. as men, will withdraw the motion and stand behind the Government." This  is no  time to be divided, or to be quibbling- over things of this kind. The  war  is being dealt with as if it was a piece o: ancient history instead of a thing which is becoming more vivid and  more  gruesome every day. 
Let those answer that question who tried to circumscribe the rights of men like  Senator Newland  and myself. For twenty-five years I have been as honest, consistent and faithful a Labour man as has ever stood anywhere. There have been Labour men equal to myself in that regard. I have stood side by side with men like the  Hon.  Thomas Price, the  Hon.  Alfred Roberts, and  Senator McGregor.  I  fought to secure the return of  Senator McGregor  when he first came out as a parliamentary candidate; and to-day, because I will follow my  conscience rather than the dictates of a council, I am condemned. Am I not right in following my conscience ? In the last speech I made here on this question, I said, " I know what my action may mean. It may mean that I shall never enter this Parliament again." My honorable friends have said to me, " So far as we can, we shall see that you do not enter this Parliament again." Is that the right way for men to act who are complaining of want of liberty ? These are the gentlemen who are calling upon the people to witness that they have been bound hand and foot, and have not liberty. What liberty do they need! They want not liberty, but licence, to do what they please. If our honorable friends will be honest and true to the conscience which they possess they will say, " Instead of voting for this motion we will withdraw it. We have ventilated what we wanted to make public. We have expressed our opinion of both  Mr. Hughes  and the censors, but we refuse absolutely to divest the Government of a power which they should have to govern the Commonwealth." 
Isolated and injudicious acts in connexion with the censorship may have been performed by the censors or their subordinates. 
Undoubtedly. We are living in abnormal times. War is an abnormal condition. I cannot understand why honorable senators should urge that the machinery of the censorship should be materially impaired, even if they can ,point to isolated acts of injudicious administration. The machinery must remain. When honorable senators say that the censorship is not properly exercised, let them reflect that there is a very much larger power in the hands of the Administration, in the hands of the Minister for Defence in particular. Will they urge that that much larger power has been injudiciously administered, and even if it has been, will they argue that the power should be  withdrawn ? We know that, in effect, the  Habeas Corpus  Act is suspended. It has been ruled by the High Court that the Minister for Defence can intern any person who he believes is inimical to the public safety, and need not give reasons for so doing. Are honorable senators challenging that very much greater power than the one which can be exercised by the censor? Undoubtedly not. They hardly dare to do it. 
Has he not? There have been many cases of its exercise, and one has been reviewed by the High Court. This fact indicates how necessary it is that we must have a censorship over all kinds of publications during this abnormal period. Have not honorable senators seen statements to the effect that Germans, high in the confidence of the German Government, have acknowledged that that Government have spent no less than £10,000,000 in endeavouring to influence the press in neutral countries? I venture to say that the unfortunate result of the referendum vote which was taken in Australia a month ago has done more than the Germans have been able to secure by their propaganda work at a selfconfessed expenditure of £10,000,000. I do not intend to mention the names of neutral countries, but within the last week or two statements have appeared in Australian newspapers, taken from American publications, to the effect that a hitherto pro-Ally neutral European nation had been practically converted into a pro- German nation through the expenditure of German gold on publications in that country. Two or three evenings ago there was in the  Herald  an article indicative of the fact that public opinion in Holland was being extensively influenced by the use of German gold and German propaganda. It is quite patent that German influence is being extensively exercised in Java, which is not very far from Australia. And quite recently I had occasion to take an interest in the French possessions in the Far East. I found that the French colonial press, which' is admittedly as patriotic as any colonial press in the world, is being subjected to a very rigid censorship in the interests of France and her Allies. One journal in particular published in Saigon had column after column in issue after issue blank because the matter which the editor thought would be newsy and breezy for his subscribers was considered by the censor to be injudicious matter for publication. Probably the censor was correct. Of course, editors want to publish what will interest their subscribers, and censors very properly wish to prevent the publication of what they think would be inimical to the best interests of the nation. There seems to be an eternal conflict between editor and censor. I am not going to say that German gold is being expended in Australia, at the present time. Such a scientist as Huxley said that there was no certainty that the sun would rise to-morrow morning, that there was only a high degree of probability that it would. Although I am not quite certain that German gold is being profusely spent in Australia, or has been spent here since the war began, I say that there is a very high degree of probability that it has been spent, and is being spent. Because itwould be singular if this British possession, in which there is one-tenth ofthe white population of the Empire, should be exempt from the German propaganda. I, being a man of common sense, state that I do believe that there is a high degree of probability that German gold is being expended here. 
Let the honorable senator ask me something easy. Has he not seen statements to the effect that certain Germans in the United States had confessed that they had been spending money most profusely on German propaganda in that country? 
Let the honor able senator ask me who is getting German money in America. Those persons have been getting German money who have been in a position to most carefully and satisfactorily wield their influence on behalf of German interest if it has been expended. I am not going to impair the censor's machinery by my vote. I believe that the members of the Hughes Ministry, although I may differ from them in many matters of domestic politics, are patriots and honest men, and are endeavouring to do their best in the interest of the Empire at the present juncture, and I certainly, seeing the most extensive powers which are reposed, and properly reposed, in the Minister for Defence, am not going to curtail the administration of the censor's department in any very important matter. 
I should like to take advantage of this opportunity to contradict a statement made last evening by  Senator Turley,  to the effect that I addressed a meeting of the Women's National League. I give that statement a flat denial. 
I do not know whether they were unkind or not, but I do know the insinuation behind  Senator Turley  's remarks. 
I do not happen to have any newspaper, but so far as the party to which I belong is concerned, I hope that in the future we shall have a newspaper, and when that time comes  Senator Mullan  and those with whom he is associated will perhaps be scarcely as well known as were Labour men thirty years ago, when I was in the State from which he comes. The honorable senator was unknown in those days, and I was known. 
I was working for a man the laces of whose shoes  Senator Turley  is not fit to tie. I was working for the man who made the Labour movement of Queensland. 
As for that. I may say that the days of Tom Glassey are passed, and now the man that certain individuals are hurling bricks at is  Mr. Hughes  - the man who made the union that  Senator Turley  is a member of. At that time that union was " blacklegging " on the other unions of Australia, because its members were working for 25 per cent, less wages than were the members of any other union in Australia at the time. It was not until  Mr. Hughes  came along, lifted them up, and put them on a level with the members of other unions, that they got the same wages as men in similar employment elsewhere. Now, then, I challenge  Senator Turley  to show what he has done for his old work mates that will compare with the achievements of  Mr. Hughes. Senator Turley  knew perfectly well that he was wrong in his statement as to the society that I addressed, and tried to mislead the Senate on the matter. I have a few things to say before this fight is over. I know the character of some honorable senators, and their history in connexion with trade unionism. 
It would be a brief record as far as  Senator Ready  is concerned, However, honorable senators will have it, all in their turn. I am not afraid of my character being exposed and held up to public view, but some persons have a right to hang their heads when certain things are mentioned. 
No; it was a strictly non-party organization, the name of which is " The National Council of Women." Though it is a non-party organization, it is one with which women's trade unions are affiliated. 
I do not think so. There were delegates from the Women's Trade Union at the meeting which I addressed, and they were not snubbed. That sort of thing is left to  Senator Ferricks,  and to hurl every insult he can at  Mr. Hughes,  who is the greatest trade unionist in Australia. The societies affiliated with the National Council of Women are numerous. Many of them are charitable, and some of them nursing societies, but there are some women's trade unions affiliated with the body I addressed, and for the better knowledge of  Senator Turley,  I am going to give their names. The first I mention is the Women's Branch of the Federated Hotel, Club. Restaurant, and Caterers' Employees Union. The next is the Victorian Lady Teachers Association; the next the Victorian Women's Post and Telegraph Association, and the fourth the Women's Shorthand and Typists Association. This shows that there are trade unions represented on the body I addressed, although it is a non-party organization. I take this opportunity to contradict the insinuation conveyed in  Senator  Turley's  statement that I addressed the Women's National League. The honorable senator's remarks were absolutely incorrect and misleading. 
There was no insinuation on my part in connexion with this matter. Unfortunately, the newspaper from which I quoted last night is now in the hands of the  Hansard  staff, and has not yet been returned to me. I quoted from a Government organ. I stated at the time that I quoted from the Brisbane  Courier,  in which the statement appeared that  Senator de  Largie had addressed a meeting of the Women's National League, at which he had announced that the party to which he belonged was in future to be known as "the National Labour Party." I stated that in my opinion it was most appropriate that the Whip of the National Labour Party should make the announcement to the Women's National League, because it is known that ever since its inception in Australia the Women's National League has been up against the Labour movement. The honorable senator, I suppose, would quote nothing like that from any other newspaper. When he stated that my remark was not correct, I asked him what was the name of the organization, and he said it was the Women's National Council. I do not know anything of the Women's National  Council.  Senator de  Largie says that quite a number of trade unions are connected with it. I do not even know that.  His  explanation seems to me to be most peculiar. He says, in the first place, that the Women's National Council is a nonparty organization. My connexion with trade unions has led me to think that, whether -they are unions of men or of women, they are not represented upon any non-party council. They are represented upon party councils that are representing organized labour, and nothing else. T know nothing of the composition of the Women's National Council, or the organizations affiliated with that particular body. Another matter has been referred to. I stated that, at the time to which he has referred,  Senator de  Largie was supporting a Liberal candidate, whilst, on the other hand, I was supporting a Labour candidate. I am quite prepared to bring all the evidence that is necessary to prove my statement.  Senator Gardiner  was a member of the New South Wales Parliament at the time, and will be well acquainted with the man whom I was supporting. 
As a matter of fact, I represented my union at the time in the Trades and Labour Council of Queensland. I was the delegate of that union to the Trades and Labour Council. 
We had a union before  Mr. Hughes  saw Australia, and before he ever thought of coming to Australia. I am not here on any false pretences whatever, or as the result of any misrepresentations. The first union that I joined in Queensland was the Wharf Labourers Union in 1882. One of my colleagues, who is now sitting behind the Government, can bear out my statement that I joined the Seamen's Union in 1884, and that I was for years a member of that organization and a delegate from it to various conferences. That was before  Senator de  Largie saw Australia. I take no credit for that - it merely goes to show that I am growing older. But I have grown up with the Labour movement, and I have never " ratted " on it.  Senator de  Largie has affirmed that the members of the organization to which I belonged at that time received less wages than did the members of similar organizations in any other part of Australia. I admit the truth of that assertion. I admit that until we got federation amongst the various waterside unions throughout Australia, the wharf labourers in Queensland received less wages than they did in New South Wales. But when I first came to this country the seamen on the coast of Queensland were receiving better wages than the seamen who were engaged on any other part of the coast of Australia. It was after the federation of the seamen was brought about that we were able to get better wages. 
No one man was responsible for the increase of wages and the better conditions that obtain so far as any Labour organization in Australia is concerned. It is the men who are behind the organizations who have made it possible 'to secure increased wages and improved industrial conditions.  Senator de  Largie has claimed credit for the Government having settled the coal strike. As a matter of fact, they had nothing to do with it. Take the Sydney  Bulletin  to- day, and what does it say? It affirms that one Judge in twenty-four hours did more good in connexion with that strike than  Mr, Hughes  was able to accomplish in a fortnight. Why? Because  Mr. Hughes  did not exercise bis powers. It was because the miners themselves declared that they were going to have improved conditions, that they were able to dictate their terms to the coal owners. That is the position in regard to organized labour throughout Australia. I am satisfied that the federation of the waterside workers did a great deal, not only for the workers on the waterside in Queensland, but for those all round Australia. It is not because  Mr. Hughes  has dropped out of the Waterside Union that that organization will go back. As a matter of fact, it will go forward, and will secure even better conditions than its members enjoyed when  Mr. Hughes  was  president  of it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Is. it a fact that the Government have cancelled an order by the ex-Minister for Home Affairs in connexion with the visits of private members of this Parliament to New Zealand; if so, will they cancel an order by that honorable gentleman giving free railway passes in the Commonwealth to all exMinisters, ex-Speakers, and exPresidents; and, if not, why? 
The answer to the first question is " Yes." The other question was answered yesterday, and the honorable senator can turn to the answer. 
I can only refer the honorable senator to the reply to the question asked yesterday. 
In asking that cer tain questions on the notice-paper may be postponed, may I point out to honorable senators what has frequently been done in other sessions ? When questions are given notice of on Thursday it is almost impossible to, get replies by Friday morning.. I suggest that in future honorable, senators should give notice of the questions for the- first day of sitting in the. following week. 
asked the Minister re presenting the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Were any firm or firms in Tasmania 'who were agents for Dalgety and Co. responsible, for the instances, as per the Prime Minister's reply given in the Senate on 6th December, in which full prices were not paid for wolfram to the miners? 
What prices were paid' in these instances to the miners ? 
How was the matter adjusted? 
The answers are - 
The firm in Tasmania who act as agentsfor Dalgety and Co. Ltd. (Hinman Wright. and Manser Ltd.) ; but the Government look solely to Dalgety and Co. Ltd. to adjust the matter. 
Approximately 44s. to 45s. per unit, but thematter is somewhat complicated, and the Minister will be glad to have the papers shown to the honorable senator if he calls at the Attorney-General's Department. 
The' matter is being adjusted. The intention of the Government is that the producers will receive the standard rates fixed by the Government. . 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Was a manifesto issued by Hon. W. M. Hughes to the Australian Imperial Forces prior to the Military Service Referendum; and, if so, will he lay a copy on the table of the Senate? 
The answer supplied by the Prime Minister is " Yes." 
In the course of my remarks on Wednesday night I endeavoured to point out the part which Australia was playing in connexion with, the war, the numbers which had been given, the cost which had been entailed to the Commonwealth, and the circumstances which had brought about practically a crisis in connexion with the recruiting of men to help the Empire at the present moment. I endeavoured to show that, whilst we were prepared to do as much as we possibly could, there was a limit to our giving, and that at some point or other we must. necessarily find it impossible to go further. 
By the attitude of the Opposition, I should say that we are in grave danger of reaching an  impasse  when voluntarism will be rendered utterly impossible. 
No; it certainly does not. It refers to those who are in opposition to the anti-conscription policy. 
I said that it refers to those who are opposed to that policy.  The cause of any lack in recruiting is due, I contend, to the position taken up by the conscriptionists, who have practically created a feeling in the minds of men that the taking of their place in the defence of the Empire is no longer an' act of chivalry and of gallantry, but that it is the duty of the conscript slave, the man who has been coerced into action against his own free will, having never been stimulated or stirred into the spirit of patriotism which is animating every soldier who goes to the front. They have robbed Australia of that sentiment which underlies the system of voluntarism. If there is any dearth of recruiting, it is due to the feeling created by the coercion party. 
It is the duty of every free man to fight for his country, and it is the duty of every country to allow the free will agency of man to play its full part in connexion with that act which he has to perform. 
Trade unionism is undoubtedly a voluntary act. 
A man becomes a trade unionist of his own free will. 
I did not need to join the Employees Federation until such time as I had become a worker in the coal-mining industry. 
I do not think that my honorable friend would have been here, either, if there had not been something to be got out of it. 
It did not take much to push the honorable senator in, but it may take much to push him out. I "would be sorry to be a camp follower of the honorable senator, at any rate. I have been a camp follower of the principles which are dear to me, and which have given me my freedom and liberty, and the position I occupy to-day. I am prepared to be a camp follower of the Labour movement, with which I have been identified for so many years. 
There is no comparison between one and the other, because in trade unionism there is a community of interest, and all its members subscribe to that sentiment. 
So far as Australia is concerned we have never yet refused to be bound by the military dictates of the situation. We have subscribed to the policy that every man from eighteen to sixty years of age shall be compelled to defend this country in the event of its shores being invaded. 
Undoubtedly it is, and we have never yet cavilled at the principle in connexion with the defence of Australia. As a matter of fact, we are the authors of the principle. 
We would seek to defend any part of the Commonwealth of Australia according to the principles laid down in the Defence Act. 
Yes. That is a principle we have never yet objected to for home service. 
It is not a question of what individual members think. It is a question of the principles involved in the Commonwealth Defence Act, and we have never had any occasion to apologize for our attitude concerning service overseas. We have never yet taken up an attitude incompatible with the principles of a Democracy. 
We have never yet agreed to conscription for overseas service. Had the people of Australia decided that issue in the affirmative at the referendum, no . one in this chamber would have been- more willing than I to give effect to it. 
No, but because it would then be the ascertained will of the people. When I am asked what is the difference between coercion for service overseas, and coercion as applied to trade unionism, I say that whatever trade unions establish as a principle, I, as a member of a trade union, am compelled to obey ; and when this country decides for service overseas, I, as a loyal member of this Commonwealth, will also obey that law. 
I do not accept  Senator de  Largie as a judge of my conduct' either in the industrial or the political movement. Evidently he is one of the "has beens,"  and has no time for anybody who comes on the scene after him. If  Senator de  Largie wishes to know whether I am a leader or not, I invite him to come to the district in which I live, and in which he lived many, many years ago, to discuss our respective attitudes in regard to this conscription campaign. If he accepts the invitation,' I am quite satisfied he will be convinced that the respect in which he is held has been considerably diminished as the outcome of his intolerant views on this important question. 
I am not going to apologize to the honorable senator or any one else. So far as we are concerned I am absolutely satisfied that we have taken up a perfectly honorable attitude in not subscribing to a principle that has not been established in the Labour movement. If in our trade unions there arises a position upon which we cannot agree, we stump the district in which we live, and give utterance to our opinions, and 'thus ascertain the views held by our people. 
I do not admit that is to my discredit, because for twenty-five years I worked in the -bowels of the earth, and I was deprived of those opportunities which my 'honorable friend enjoyed for many years. 
I am not questioning that, but when the honorable senator talks about my lack of geographical knowledge of New South Wales he only displays a want of sympathy quite out of keeping with the cause which he is supposed to represent in this chamber. 
It is not a fact It is merely one of the -honorable senator's political innuendoes, and about on a level with his "coo-ee!" I hope, at at any rate -whilst I am .addressing this august Chamber I shall always be able .to control myself, and retain the full possession of my senses.- Reverting to the question of conscription, I repeat that we on this side of the chamber are not prepared to be handcuffed. We prefer to remain free. We are not disposed to allow the destinies of Australia to be marred #nd its efficiency destroyed by the depletion of its manhood under conscription. I contend that under the voluntary system we shall do infinitely better ' than un.der a system of compulsion, though I am aware that even under the voluntary system we cannot do all that we would desire, for the simple reason that we have not the manhood power here. 
I say definitely that by the adoption of conscription we could not have done better in point of numbers, nor perhaps would we have sacrificed the vital interests of this country more than has been the case under the voluntary system. 
Perhaps because we might not have given so much. 
If full consideration  had  been given to the needs of the harvest and to other primary industries of this country, I am .perfectly satisfied -it.. would have been necessary ,to retain hundreds of men who left our .shores ; .but we sacrificed them (and did not murmur because we -knew that .they .were animated by ,a spirit of  patriotism .and were prepared to offer their lives in defence ;of this country. We ;have -.never yet .condescended to Make into consideration what the cost would be in the face of that .spirit of patriotism, and as a result, under our voluntary .system, we have been able to do more perhaps than could have been done under compulsion.-  Senator Bakhap  just now referred to what had been done by the Mother Country in proportion to her population, but so far as Australia is concerned, a comparison with the Mother Country is not' a good one, as the interests are not equal. Great Britain has a population of 46,000,000. 
As I have said, Great Britain has a population of 46,000,000 and a territory of about 100,000 square miles. Australia has, in round figures, about 5,000,000 people and a territory of about 3,000,000 squaremiles. In other words, Australia is about thirty times the size of Great Britain and has a population of only one-ninth, so that it could not reasonably be expected we should do as much. Obviously it would be easier for Great Britain to contribute one-tenth of her population than for Australia to do that. 
I repeat it was easier for Great Britain to do what she has done than for Australia. I know that Great Britain is doing a great deal in the manufacture of munitions, and if wewere similarly employed we should be playing a more useful part. We have to look to the future and bear in mind that we might be called upon to make even greater sacrifices than hitherto, and I think we would be doing a far greater service to the Empire if we conserved our interests within Australia than by going; forward " mad-headed " in the manner indicated by the Government proposals. 
It is quite true that Great Britain established the principle after 5,000,000 of her men had voluntarily come forward, and it is true, also that, according to Colonel Rep.ington, or some other military authority, 10 per cent, of its manhood is as much as any nation can afford to give in the prosecution of a war. I say, therefore, that Great Britain had already given more than a normal proportion before she adopted conscription. 
We do not know what sacrifices we may yet be called upon to make in Australia, and I urge that if we are going to maintain our supplies that is as much as we can reasonably be expected to do. Had we confined ourselves to four divisions we would not be- in the difficult position in which we are at the present time. It was a mistake to attempt to send five divisions to the war. I have no doubt that it was the purpose of the military authorities in Great Britain to increase our task until we reached the breaking point. They had no proper regard for the internal affairs of Australia. They were impressed by the grit and worth of the Australian soldiers. They, believed that they were of more -value than almost any other soldiers, they had, and for the purpose in view they, were prepared to bleed Australia to the last man to enable them to carry out their task. I can admit that that wastheir business, but it is ours to loot after our domestic affairs and to have regard to the internal interests of the Commonwealth: We cannot overlook our duty to protect and safeguard our interests, in Australias We should maintain the traditions upon, which the Democracy of Australia has been built up, and I say that to propose a system of- conscription is to advertise to the world that our- men who- are capable of bearing, arms are unwilling to do their duty. If that were really so, there are other means which might be adopted by which those who ought to go to the front could be secured.  ~2fo  doubt there are some men who have failed in their duty in this respect, and who have not shown a proper sense of their responsibility in connexion with the war. But I remind the Government that the liberty that is permitted upon our race-courses, and at other places of amusement, is a practical admission that those who are responsible have not been imbued with the due sense of the gravity of the situation. We are living here just as we did before the war, and men attend prize-fights and race meetings as though there was nothing amiss. Whilst the Government are prepared to tolerate such a condition of affairs they cannot at the same, time claim that the manhood of Australia have failed to realize their responsibility. Before they attempt to put pressure upon a community which has shown itself more than willing to play its part in the prosecution of the war, they should have the courage to deal with the persons to whom I have referred, and bring home to them a sense of their duty. I am not against sport or amusement. I dearly love pure sport and amusement, and I am satisfied that a community that fails to -foster pure forms of sport that serve to relieve the tension of men's minds will not conserve the best traditions of nationhood. But at a time when we are in death-grips with an enemy such as the world has never before seen, there are ways and means by which all the forces of the community could be concentrated for the carrying on of the war without the adoption of a policy that strikes a blow at all democratic traditions, and which might establish a precedent from which we would never later be able to free ourselves. We are not justified in asking a people who have done their share, and more than their share, in the prosecution of the war to adopt a policy which would rob them of their claim to gallantry and manhood.  Senator Pearce  referred to the people of France and other countries that have adopted conscription, and in reply I say that the exigencies and circumstances of any nation can alone determine the wisdom of the policy it adopts. If the people pf Australia to-day found that there was no other way by which to defend their national existence than the adoption of a policy of conscription, I am satisfied that without any referendum they would unamimously  call upon the Government to press every fit man into the service of the country. 
I am depending upon a grain or two of common sense which I am afraid the honorable senator does not possess, because there . is neither rhyme nor reason in his interjection. 
I could do that more easily than by listening to the Minister. 
I do not require  Senator Pearce  . to instruct me as to whether I am wrong or right. I have never made any statement publicly or privately which gives any man the right to say that I am speaking against my conviction. 
 Senator Guthrie  is welcome to think so if he pleases - " As the fool thinks the bell jinks." Those who are against conscription have been perfectly satisfied with my utterances on the subject. I have not been asked to take any more extreme stand than I have taken. I claim that in what I am saying now I am giving utterance to the views of those who are associated with the anticonscription movement. The people who have advocated anti-conscription are as zealous in the prosecution of the war as ever our conscriptionist friends could be. I say, further, that those who have appeared on the anti-conscription platform are those who for the most part have sons at the war, whilst those who have been advocating conscription have no sons to go to the war. It is a notable fact, apart from the platform advocates 'of conscription, that people who voted for it, and who assisted the campaign with funds, have merely vested interests to preserve, and were called upon to make no sacrifice of flesh and blood. It ill becomes any man who has nothing to offer to tell the son of another man to take his place at the front. 

 - Senator Guthrie is a notable exception to what I have been saying. 
That is so, but those honorable senators are notable exceptions. A very great number of those who have been calling upon our young men to go to the war have themselves nothing to give, but everything to preserve and protect. They are satisfied that in this case, as in every other, the working population should bear the burden whilst they enjoy the results from their burden-bearing. I am confident that the agitation in favour of conscription was born amongst the wealthy class. It did not emanate from the Labour leaders or from Labour institutions. No Labour organization in Australia took the initiative in suggesting that the manhood of the country should be conscripted. When we are told that conscription is the policy of unionism, I ask why the agitation for it did not begin with the Labour movement and amongst Labour organizations. It is said that trade unions coerce their members into obedience to their laws, but they never instituted a propaganda to compel the manhood of the country to go to war as they think it right to apply compulsion to their members' in connexion with industrial organization. The thing speaks for itself and needs no argument. I hope that a difference of opinion on this subject between  Senator Guthrie  and myself will not interfere with the friendship that has existed between us. 
In what I have had to say on this subject I havemade no personal attack upon any one. Nothing could be further from my inclination. I have even tried to cultivate the friendship of those who have differed from me, believing that to be the right course to adopt. I contend that Australia has done, and is doing, all that any people situated as we are can be expected to do. The highest encomiums have been passed in England upon Australia for the work that she has done and is doing. In my opinion, the agitation in support of conscription has been due to the action of people who have some political axe to grind. I have stated from every platform during the referendum campaign that the agitation in favour of conscription was a deep-laid plot to destroy the Labour party. 

 - Senator Guthrie was not the author of the plot, but unfortunately he fell into the trap. 
There was no trap. I am satisfied. 
Was it the Labour movement ? 
And because you repudiate every pledge .that you gave to the electors. 
Although the referendum campaign is ended, it seems that it has still to be fought over and over again for an interminable period. Nothing but the recent conflict appears to engage the attention of Parliament and the country. I do not ' know whether it is wise to - do so, but I also wish to make a few remarks thereon. It was not likely that those of us who were opposed' to compulsory service abroad would assist the Government to perfect their plans to carry it into effect. Objection has been raised to the action of the Government in calling up the men in anticipation of an affirmative vote. Personally I was pleased at their action in that direction, because I believed that when the people began to realize what conscription meant they would record a much greater vote against it than would otherwise be the case. Instances came under my notice where people for some time previously had been enthusiastic conscriptionists, but when the hand of the Government was stretched out to force members of their family into the training camps they began to see things in an entirely different light, and spared no efforts to defeat conscription. 
It was a very unpleasant fact. It brought home to the people in a way which no other method could have done what conscription really meant, and it was largely owing to the calling up of th$ men .that conscription was defeated. I, and I am sure .most other people, regret very much the enormous amount of personal abuse and misrepresentation which took place during that campaign, and which apparently has an indefinite course still to run. 
No one has heard me make a single derogatory remark about the Prime .Minister, and I do not intend to do so. It is not my way. No matter what he may say with regard to our party, it. is no part of my .business to abuse the Prime Minister or any other man, but I think I have th*e right to object to their actions if I choose. The annoyance to which we were subjected by the unfair and unreasonable attitude of the Government in regard to the censorship of the press was also responsible for a very large measure of the support we received during the campaign.- The Senate yesterday decided that the Government should no longer -be permitted to enjoy the freedom of action in that direction, which they, enjoyed during the campaign. 
The decision of the Senate was a restriction of unfair actions on the part df the Government. They capped the whole of their unfair proceedings by the determination to insist upon the use of the ballot-box to find out whether-men had -answered the proclamation or not. All these matters greatly assisted the " No Conscriptionists, " but apart from all that, once the people began to realize what conscription meant, they became more and more hostile to the idea, and if the campaign had continued for another fortnight our majority would probably have reached not 60,000 but 200,000. The people of Australia are notprepared to entertain the compulsory idea. It has been said that compulsion is the law of the land in Great Britain, but I remind those who make that statement that the people of Great Britain had not very much voice in the election of members to the Imperial Parliament. They have no voice at all in the election of members of the House of Lords', and they were not consulted  upon the question of compulsion or .no compulsion. Had they been consulted it is very problematical whether they would have voted for it. As it was, it was forced on them by a Government elected not by the people but by a small minority. There is no adult franchise there, and the women of Great Britain do not count in the election of members of Parliament. 
We have an elective Lower House. 
An elective Upper House with a property qualification is much more objectionable than a House nominated for life, although both are objectionable. 
Because it does not represent the people of Great Britain. , 
It certainly does not. An instance proving this conclusively was seen the other day. There has been on the platform of the Labour party for ten or twelve years a proposal to extend the principle of land value taxation to water and sewerage rating.- That has also been on the platform of the Liberal party for many years. A Bill to give effect to it was passed by the Lower House in New South Wales recently, but when it reached the Upper House the Honorable B. B.  O'Conner,  followed by  Sir Thomas  Hughes, and supported by  Sir Allen  Taylor and  Dr. Nash,  vigorously opposed the idea. Their opposition was so strong that the Honorable J. D. Fitzgerald, who was in charge of the Bill, ceased to push it along. So far from the New South Wales Legislative Council representing the people I am firmly convinced that if the people had a referendum on the question they would vote for the abolition of that Chamber by a very large majority. Many of its members axe there for the express purpose of preventing the passage of useful legislation. 
Order ! The honorable senator is out of order in discussing New South Wales politics, or the constitution, of t(he New South Wales Parliament on the motion before the Senate. 

<graphic href="080332191612083_10_0.jpg"></graphic>

In reply to a question put by me a few days ago, the Minister for Defence informed the Senate that the casulaties from August, 1914, to 31st October, 1916, were as follows: - 

 Senator- GR ANT. - Who informed us-? 

 Senator - Keating. - The German, pre.pagandists . did. 

 Senator- GRANT. - Well, I am . sure nobody ' can. say that, up" to- the present; Australia has-" quitted." I have-found- no evidence, whatever' to prove-- that no-con- - scriptionists  - intend1 to quit:; but; on-, the: other hand, they will continue to do theirutmost, no matter how long* the war may last. We are opposed, however, to the action of the -Government in endeavouring to foist conscription on- the people of /this country. 

 Senator- GRANT. - Following upon that statement' by the Minister, the&gt; enlistments - dropped to the extent of about 6,000 per- month. 
What do you suggest I should have said? 
Yes, I do. 
They do not require explanation. They explain themselves. 
I may say that I went through Darlinghurst Gaol a few weeks ago, and I was pained and surprised to see the number of men who are there, and to learn the trivial offences for which they have been incarcerated. I take another case, that of No. 1517, Private W. J. Clinton,C Company, 19th Battalion, 5th Brigade. He is serving five years' penal servitude. One would think that we did not need any men at the front. Private Clinton writes - 

 Sir, - I, the undersigned, wish to appeal against the sentence passed on me whilst in Egypt. I am charged with - 1. Disobeying an order. 2. Obscene language. 3. Escaping from custody. On which charges I am sentenced to five years' penal servitude. I will endeavour to give you a true statement of what occurred, all of which was stated on oath at my court martial. I was ordered by our O.C. to have a shave. I told him I did not own a razor, to which he replied by swearing and telling me to borrow one. While endeavouring to borrow one I was sent by a sergeant out in the desert on fatigue, with which order I complied. Upon returning to the lines I was walking along with the sergeant to borrow a razor when our O.C. saw me, and once again abused me about not having a shave, at which I lost "my head and abused him in return. Then I was placed under arrest, 'and put into the guard tent, from where I escaped, not having any leave since my first arrival in Egypt, and knowing that after being court martialled for the first charges would not get a chance, took it on myself, got out. of the guard tent, and went into Cairo. I might state that I was on the Peninsula from August 5th till the final evacuation, and always done my duty to the entire satisfaction of the officers and N.C.O.'s of my battalion. While there for a couple of months I was attached to the Engineers doing sapping duty, and helped during the last days at Gallipoli to mine the Turkish trenches. While at Lemnos, after returning from the Peninsula, I broke camp to visit Castro, a village a few "miles away, for which crime I was sentenced to 28 days' second field punishment, which included a forfeiture of £7 pay. Upon returning to Egypt and, thinking that my punishment was finished, refused to attend defaulters' parade, for which I got another 28 days and £7 fine. It was on returning to the lines after being tried for the latter offence that the present trouble arose. Up to the time of leaving Gallipoli I had the cleanest of sheets, and, if given another chance, will do my best to soldier on and play the game. Trusting this matter will receive your earnest consideration. 
I remain, 
Private E. W. j. Clinton, 1517. 
Here is a man who got five years because he refused to get a shave. 
One would think that we had tens of thousands of men offering themselves. Even if we had, I say that there can be no justification for confining a man in gaol for five years because he refuses to shave when his commanding officer tells him to do so. 
The main objection to himwas that hewould not get ashave because he had not a razor. 
-He did get that sentence, and he is serving it now. 
SenatorPearce. - The honorable senator , has given , the man's -statement, but the whole of the papers in the case are not before us. 
I now refer to the cases of No. 529, Private H. J. . Dalton, No. 649, Private J. Quill, -and No. 751, : Private R. J. 'Fountain, of B : Company 20th . Battery, 5th Infantry Brigade. What offence did they commit? They write - 
Darlinghurst 'Barracks, 6th June, 1916. 

 Sir,- We beg to draw your attention to our case, arid ask you to see if you can get us a remission of our sentence. Our battalion (20th Battalion) were seventeen weeks on the Peninsula, andwe were among the last to remain on Anzac at the evacuation. When we returned, to Egypt, after a fortnight atLeranos Island, our battalion was camped at Telelkebir about four weeks, and then we were shifted across the Suez Canal and placed on the Canal defences. On 'our return from Gallipoli leave had been. granted to 1 per cent. per day, we, not being amongst the lucky ones, did not receive leave. We were posted out on the Arabian Desert, and the main work  allotted to our battalion was that of constructing a railway. On . 29th . February, 1916, we were detailed off for outpost for the following day. At 7.55 on 1st March, 1916, it was found that the railway working party was short, and we were picked to make up the number. The party had been issued with water before we joined them. After a march of 1 or 1½ miles in the broiling sun we reached the work, . and we were detailed off with a party under, a corporal to shovel sand on the line. We didn't start work, and the corporal asked us what was the matter, and we stated that we wanted adrink of water,and then we would start work. We were refused. We then asked the corporal for a drink out of his bottle, with same result. A sergeant was brought along, and he asked us what was the matter, and we stated that we wanted a drink of water, and then we would start work. An officer was then brought along, and he asked thesame question as the sergeant, and got the same answer. At the court martial our characters were given as "very good," and 'we were sentenced to three years' penal servitude each. We were taken to 'Citadel 'Detention Barracks. We did six weeks there (four of which were spent in single cells). We have now done twelve weeks of our sentence. Hoping that you can receive for us a -remission of our sentence. 
We remain,yours truly, 
J. Dalton. 
Quill. 
J. Fountain. 
Yes, because they asked for a drink.These sentences have already been published in the Australian  Worker  newspaper and in other organs. They are to a certain extent known throughout New SouthWales, and they had a very material effect in causing the people to pause before they decided to force other men to go to the front to be dealt with insimilar fashion for similar offences. Here is another case, that of No. . 1925, Private F. Evans, D Company,. 18th -Battalion, 5th Brigade. He only got two years' hard labour. . He writes - 
Sir,-I, the . undersigned, beg . to appealto you in regard to the severity of my sentence. On February 17th I was court martialled on the charge of disobeying &lt; an order and showing wilful defiance of authority and sentenced to two years', hard labour. This happened at Telelkebir Camp. after our return from the Peninsula. Previous to this offence I had nine months' service with an entirely clean record. Eight weeks ofthis time -was -spent on the Peninsula in the. firing line. . From the date of the evacuation . up till the date of this offence we were almost continually on -short rations of . food and water, and a full measure of work, which did not tend to sweeten our tempers. Therefore, on being addressed by asergeant in a sharp manner first thing in the morning, gavehim a hasty answer, with the above result. During my career as a soldier Ihave endeavoured to carry out my duties in a manly and soldierly manner, which fact was proved to the satisfaction of the officers constituting . my court martial. Trusting you will give this matter your earnest consideration, and take my previous record as an indication of my character. 
I am, yours obediently, 
Yes, two years' hard labour for a hasty answer - that is all. The public do not appear to know what is being done. 
I have not only the evidence of the letter, but something to back it up, which I shall refer to later on. 
Yes, I have quoted his own letter. These men are incarcerated in various gaols in New South Wales, and for the reasons to which I have referred. I have the original documents before me, or I would not be one to submit them to the Senate. The cases I have referred to are typical of many others, the facts concerning which I can give to honorable senators. 

 Sitting suspended from1 to. 2.30 p.m. 

In regard to "the case of No. 1191, Private James Fenwick, ofD.Company, 17th Battalion, of the Australian Imperial Force, who wassentenced to six months'hard labour, I wish to submit the following statement, with a view to showing the offences for which some men at the front are punished by six months' imprisonment: - 
They did not. 
I did. 
The men are still in gaol. 
If there is, I have not seen it. 

 Senator -Guthrie. - What wasthe Go- vernment'sreply ? 
The menare still in gaol. Take the case of No. 1435, Private Arthur Henbury, of the 13th Battalion, Australian 'Imperial Force, who is now serving a sentence of two years imprisonment. He writes - 
He was charged with being absent without leave, with being drunk, and with breaking custody.  His  wife does not get the money which is due to her, and the man himself is prepared to go to the front straight away. 
Indeed they have not. 
Order ! Asfar as I have been able to follow the honorable senator, I think that he is quoting these letters for the second time. I believe that he quoted them before the suspension of the sitting for luncheon. Once is quite sufficient to quote them, and the honorable senator will not be in order in" reading them again. 
It is dated 7th June, 1916. 
He does not say. 
I take it that he has been in gaol all the time. 
But the same Minister for Defence is still in office. 
I did not have the opportunity. I hope that the result of the disclosures which I am now making will be an immediate inquiry into these cases, with a view to a substantial remission of the sentences imposed upon these men. 
Yes. I received the following letter from. Jamieson's wife : - 
I am the wife of Private John Jamieson, of the 20th Battalion, now serving a sentence in Goulburn Gaol for a military offence committed in Egypt. I am now depending on State aid for my children, five in number, including a young baby six months old, so if you could do anything for my husband I would be greatly obliged to you. I have received no military allowance since the 18th June. 
I sent the following reply : - 
In receipt of your letter dated 14th inst., and, in reply, have to state in response to representation already made by me to the Defence Department a reply has come to hand that this case will be considered when a full report of the proceedings of the court martial is received by the Department. These proceedings were cabled for some time ago. 
That is the last I heard of the case. The details of the case of Trooper William Waddell Miller, No. 720, B Squadron, 6th Light Horse, are as follow : - 
I, No. 720, Trooper William Waddell Miller, " B " Squadron, 6th Australian Light Horse, do hereby appeal against the sentence of two years' hard labour I am now undergoing. I appeal on these counts :  - 
The illegality of my detention below deck on the transportHunts-end for 48 hours without a trial; the flimsiness of the evidence; the illegal action of taking written evidence from an officer in the vicinity of the first inquiry; the biased action on the part of  Colonel Cox  in prompting a witness in an answer as to time and date, which fie was unable to answer. 
My case is as follows :  - 
I, Trooper William Waddell Miller, was arrested and placed below deck, and detained there, without any charge being formulated against me, for 48 hours. I was liberated, and told that nothing further would be heard of the matter. Alter landing at Anzac as a free man, carrying arms and equipment, some seven or eight hours after, I was informed by Sergeant P. Ryan that I was under arrest. That day I was taken before  Colonel Cox,  who read out a charge of disobeying a lawful command and insolence to my superior officer, which consisted of abusive language. The evidence in favour of the charge was laid by Lieutenant Buskin, -coupled with a written report by  Colonel O'Dowda,  Royal Dublin Fusiliers. 
I pleaded " Not' guilty." Colonel Cox then said, "Will you be tried by- ? No, you'll have a court martial." The Adjutant then took the summary of evidence, Colonel Cox still remaining in the orderly-room, also a trooper not connected with the case. The Adjutant, in adjudicating on the case, put the following question to Lieutenant Buskin :  - "On what date, day, and what timeof day was the crime committed?" Lieutenant Buskin looked confused, and could not answer until Colonel Cox rose and reached across the table for the evidence on the written report by Colonel O'Dowda, who was in the vicinity, and could have been present, thus rendering his evidence as invalid. A court martial was granted. At the court martial, held on the 3rd September, 1915, four more witnesses were produced who were not present at the summary, thus giving me no opportunity to crossquestion them, and thus lay before the General both sides of the case before he granted the court martial. 

 Colonel O'Dowda's evidence Was still in writing, though he was procurable. Each of the above-mentioned witnesses replied, on being asked as to my condition, that I was under the influence of drink, but not drunk. 
In the Army Regulations there is no such quibble, a man is either sober or he is drunk. The result of this court martial was a sentence of two years' hard labour. I think, to an unbiased mind, this case has every appearance of a conspiracy, taking into consideration the paltryness of the charge and the heavy penalty inflicted. 
The only reason I can give is that I attempted to prevent the wholesale robberies that were being committed, by the confiscation of the troops' rations, who were fighting in the trenches, for the use of persons who had never been in the firing line, and had no intention of ever going, as far as they themselves were concerned. 
I can also mention, ifnecessary, the name of an officer in my regiment who was - himself severely reprimanded on approaching the  Colonel on  the matter of getting the men in the trenches more food and water. Of food there was an abundance, although water was not quite so plentiful. 
The Governor of Gabbari Military Prison, Colonel Owen Hassal, Royal Warwick Regiment, to which prison I was sent, recommended me as being a fit and proper person to be released and sent' back to the trenches: 
He has also written a letter on my behalf to the Minister of Justice, NewSouth Wales. 
I arrived in Sydney on June 3rd, 1916, to complete the remainder of my sentence. 
I have already served my countryin the Boer War, and have been wounded on the 18th June in the present war. 
Now, sir, I trust you will see your way clear to investigate into this matter, and thus prevent a greater miscarriage of justice than has been done up till now. 
I am only too anxious to go back again and fight for my country, as it is such paltry crimes and such heavy sentences which aresapping the strength of Australia's Army, which has so nobly upheld the traditions of the Boer War. 
Thanking you in anticipation,  Sir, 
I am your obedient servant, 720 Trooper William W. Miller. 6th Australian Light Horse. 
Home address : C/o  Mrs. E..  Murray, 41 Merriman-street, Miller's Point, Sydney. 
That is another case which seems to require immediate investigation, and I have other documents corroborating Trooper Miller's statements. Another case showing undue severity is that of Corporal S. P. Murray, No. 615, A Company, 20th Battallion, 5th Infantry Brigade.  His  statement is as follows : - 
Oh March 16th I was tried by court martial on the charges of insubordinate and threatening language to an officer, and striking another N.C.O., and sentenced to 12 months' hard labour. Previous to being tried, I applied to our Adjutant to be allowed out on open arrest to arrange my defence and obtain the services of a prisoner's friend, my request being refused; and, having been under the influence of some Egyptian concoction sold as whisky, was totally unaware of what had taken place. My first knowledge of anything having happened was on my awakening in the guard tent tied up. This happened atIsmailia Camp after our return from the desert.. Previous to this I have had a. clear record, only having been once before our Battalion Court for overstaying my leave by three hours in February, 1916. My company O.C. said this wouldnot be recorded against me on account of previous good service. 
I was on the. Peninsula for eighteen weeks, and for three months of this time I held the responsible position of Acting Post SergeantMajor, administering the work and manning of our post right up till the evacuation. Also had the honour of being selected by our O.C. as the last man to leave the firing line on Walker's Ridge, having to cover theretreat of our party by subterfuge and close our line of retirement with barbed wire, being accompanied on this latter by Lieutenant, now Captain, Hosking: 
Whilston duty in the firing line I suffered from the effect of concussion from shell fire twice, the last time, just four days before our evacuation, I was rendered deaf for twentyfour hours, and left subject to violent headaches. On the arrival of the rearguard at Lemnos Island we were paraded in front of General Godley and complimented on our work, our names being mentioned in despatches. From here we were drafted to Egypt, and sent out ten miles over the Suez Canal into the desert to one ceaseless round of hard work digging trenches in the sand on short rations, both of food and water. Whilst here I Was again complimented by our Brigade  Major for  good work carried out at head-quarters. From here we were marched over to Ismailia Camp to reorganize for France, this being the first little bit of civilization we had seen since our departure for the Peninsula in August last year, just eight months. Taking into consideration my past services and steadiness as a non-commissioned officer (which position I held for ten months), I trust you will agree with me that, for a disciplinary offence committed at a time whilst I was not responsible for my actions, this sentence isunduly harsh. 
P. Murray, 
They must be getting more than four hours in fortyeight hours. 
The statement continues - 
I never heard anything about my sentence until after the evacuation, when I went into the Citadel Military Prison for three months. 

 Sir, I wish to go back to the front in another unit after I see my mother.  I have lost my father and grandfather since I have been fight-, ing on Gallipoli. I have been wounded once. 
Hoping you will see into this for me. I am an employee in the railway. 
I remain, 
Tour obedient servant, 
Pte. CHARLES HENRY Searle. 
Then there is the case of Private T. C. Smith, of the 19th Battalion, Australian Imperial Force, who is doing four years in Darlinghurst. 
This man is either there or in some other gaol. He is "not out of gaol, so far as I know, although men are urgently required at the front. . 
The Minister ought to go up to Darlinghurst gaol and find out the reason why these men are being detained. 
This is the statement of No. 663, Private T. C. Smith- 
Yes. T will read to "the Senate a letter- which I sent to the Department, under date 3rd July, 1916 -  Senator Gardiner, 
I received one on the following, day,, in reply to my letterconcerning Private Anderson.. It.  reads  as f  follows  - 
We ought not to be afraid, as  Senator Findley  reminds me, to tax them for the protection of the country. 
I do not propose, however, to give honorable senators an address on land taxation this afternoon. I  shall reserve that for another occasion. I received a most valuable return the other day showing that the land values of Australia amount to no less than £446,000,000.' The Government have presented a financial statement, and I regret very much that in it they have not shown any intention to raise some of the necessary revenue for the payment of expenses in connexion with the war from those who own the land of this country. 
I am not very much concerned with the names of the owners of landed estates in Australia, but I' am concerned about the value of those estates. According to  Mr. Knibbs,  the official Statistician of the Commonwealth, the value of the lands of Australia, apart from improvements, is £446,000,000, and, in my view, it is disgraceful that the Government should be proposing a tax of Id. upon a 6d. ticket for a picture show, whilst allowing the owners of all this wealth in land to go free of taxation. 
The total of £446,000,000 is, I understand, a completeestimate, but it is doubtful whether the owners of the country would be prepared to sell their estates at even that amount. We shall have an opportunity, I hope, in the course of a few days, to deal with this matter, and I trust that we shall call upon the .Government to abandon such trivial proposals as the taxing to the extent of Id. a 6d. ticket for a picture show. A policy of taxation of that kind is quite unworthy even of the present Government. I hope they will see their way to abandon it. I have spoken at some length, and have placed the cases of a number of men before the Government and the Senate. I do not like this kind of work, but the men to whom I have referred are in gaol, and many of them would be only too pleased if given the opportunity to rejoin their regiments. I am satisfied that if the Government were to remit a very large proportion of their sentences, whilst no harm would be done to. any one, much would be done to secure the success of the recruiting campaign which is just about to be started. We have no evidence at present before us to enable us to say whenthe war will be brought to a conclusion. We cannot, in my opinion, obtain 16,500' men per month. I do not believe that Australia can supply that number of men, even though we should take married men, in the course of the next few months. I believe, however, that we are in a position to keep up reinforcements so as tomaintain the five divisions that are at the front. 
No, the five divisions. We have five divisions at the front at the present time, though onemay be in England. 
There are four divisions in France, and one in England. 
I saw a statement that the fifth division that was at Salisbury Plain was to go to the front. 
Only a few days ago the Government sent a cable asking the authorities to use the fifth division to reinforce the four divisions on the Continent. 
.- We have, in the statement presented to the Senate by the Federal Government, an intimation that they intend to pursue a  " bold and unfaltering policy " in the conduct of the war. Such a policy will meet with the approbation of every honorable senator on this side. However, during the continuance of the present debate we have had some indication of what the bold -and unfaltering policy of the Government -is to be, particularly with respect to one important feature in the conduct of the war. The policy of the Government is bold, unfaltering, and determined, so far as man power is concerned, but it stops dead and short there. When we come to the question of finance to provide the sinews of war, we find that this bold and unfaltering Government have already proposed a modification of the scheme submitted by the last Government for the taxation of those who hold the wealth of the' country, and who, while they stay at home, should be called upon to do their share 1 towards the successful prosecution of the war. If it is the policy of the Government to reduce the taxation proposed upon those who have made huge war profits from 100 per cent, to 75 per cent., there is nothing very bold or unfaltering about that. If it is the policy of the Government not to tax war bonds, and to spread the wealth levy for the Repatriation Fund over a period of five years, in order to placate a section of their supporters, it looks as if they were determined to remain on the Treasury bench by making any concession that their Liberal party supporters may ask for. We shall have the financial policy of the Government before the Senate later, and will be able to refer to it in detail. As announced, however, it should be au indication to the people that the Government intend to retain office by the sacrifice of the principles which they asserted previously. 
So far as the party on this side is concerned, we remain the same as we were prior to the recent lamentable split. We have the same principles and the same platform. It has not been amended, nothing has been deleted from it, and we have entirely the same organization, the same procedure, and the same rules of conduct. Nothing that has been done, by any one connected with the Labour movement has in the slightest degree altered our methods. The reason we find ourselves in opposition is because we have been true to the pledges we made to the people who sent us into this Parliament. We elected to sacrifice whatever emoluments we might have been receiving for the sake of our principles, and to remain true to the cardinal principles on which we were returned to power originally. It is because those principles were abrogated and torn up by the Leader of the present 
Government that we find ourselves in our present position to-day. 
That is so. A primary principle of the party is that a majority of the party should control its political actions. 
And inside this Parliament,. also. 
The first principle of the party has been that we should elect our own leader. That we have done in the past. The second principle is that the party should elect its own Ministry, and the third principle is that those in the party should entirely control its policy, as far as its platform is concerned. Those principles have been abrogated by the present Government. 
That is absolutely incorrect. The Minister for Defence and those with whom he is associated left our organization and our movement because they would not submit to its first principle. 
That is so. They have already denied the second principle, because the statement has appeared in the press, and has not been contradicted, that the Leader of their party selected his own Ministry. That is one of our principles which the present Government party have gone back upon. 
 Senator Story  supplies an excuse, but at the same time a plain admission of the fact I have stated. There appears to be a conspiracy of silence on the Ministerial benches, and the only excuse I have heard in this cham ber for their breakaway from the first principle of the Labour party is that the party had made up its mind to depose the Leader. 
I do deny it, so far as I am personally concerned. I went into the Caucus meeting of our party absolutely free and untrammelled, and with an entirely open mind. My attitude  at the meeting depended entirely upon what the Prime Minister did. He took the stand that he would not submit to his party. He left the meeting, andSenator Pearce and others left with him. 
SenatorREADY. - If objection is taken to the right of the Caucus to elect or depose its leader, why did not  Senator Pearce  get up in his place in the Caucus and voice his objection, and why did he not leave the party when the Caucus, months previously, decided to depose two Ministers - Messrs. Archibald and Spence? When the party not only deposed two of its Ministers, but proceeded to re-elect all the other Ministers,  Senator Pearce  sat silent. He admitted the right of the party to do that, but he does not admit its right to depose a leader who absolutely refused to consult the wishes of his party. 
No outside organisations are admitted to the Caucus. The men who constitute the Caucus are the members of the Parliamentary Labour party. 
If that statement were true, it would be better for any movement to be instructed by those who compose it than that it should be dragged at the heels of any one man.If, in Australia, we are going to abandon our principles of Democracy, and substitute an Autocracy, the sooner  Senator Story  frankly acknowledges the fact the better. All these remarks about secret juntas and outside organizations come ill from men who for many years sat in those secret juntas and were parties to their creation. Let me ask  Senator Story,  "Is not his party a secret junta?" Does it admit the press to its meetings? Can anybody hear its debates? Is not the Cabinet a secret junta? Did not honorable members in another place take serious objection to the fact that a Minister revealed that certain regulations were put before a meeting of the Executive Council? At the meeting which took place in Sydney at which those regulations were approved, three Ministers only were present. 
SenatorREADY. - There may have been only two Ministers at that meeting, and one of them journeyed to Sydney for the express purpose of being present. At that little secret junta these objectionable regulations were approved, and I am proud to think that my leader in this Chamber,  Senator Gardiner,  resigned his position as a Minister rather than submit to them. I shall expect the next time  Senator Story's  party meets, a general invitation to be issued to the press to come along and take notes of it. I will guarantee that they would prove interesting reading at the present juncture, and I would not mind being the reporter. 
As my leader has stated,  Mr. Hughes  attempted to impose his opinions and his will on the members of his party.  Mr. Hughes  has been a veritable political " humptydumpty." He has had a very great fall indeed, . and many persons, while recognising his great abilities, also recognise that this political "humpty-dumpty'.' is a man in whom they can no longer put their trust, and especially when they sec the Ministry hanging on to the Treasury bench dependent for their existence upon the party whose principles' are absolutely antagonistic to their own.  Mr. Hughes'  methods were probably never equalled by any leader in Australian history. He abused his position. He libelled and denounced even his own followers. He slandered and reviled all those who were opposed to him. He gagged and insulted his own Ministers, he stifled free speech, and used the whole of the governmental machinery of Australia, Federal, State and municipal, for a pernicious party propaganda for his own side on the referendum question. For these' reasons we elected to get out into the cold shades of opposition and to trust our fate entirely to the electors. As far asI am concerned, I will do nothing to hinder an appeal to the people who created this Parliament, because I feel sure that the only authority which will effectually determine this political crisis will be the electors of Australia through the medium of the ballot-box. 
A point has arisen in regard to the now famous regulations, which I have not heard mentioned by any previous  speaker,  and which I would like to bring under the notice of  Senator Pearce.  I have no need to recall  Mr. Hughes'  attitude towards these regulations, and his manner of introducing them. There is no doubt that they would have been used on polling-day but for my leader in this Senate. Australia owes a debt of gratitude to him, to  Mr. Higgs,  and to  Senator Russell  for the action which they took. In looking up the Electoral Act I find that there are very stringent penalties imposed for electoral offences. In order that we may insure that the ballot shall be kept absolutely pure, certain sections provide that any breach of the law, or any attempt to unduly influence votes in any one direction, is punishable by heavy penalties. The sections of the Act dealing with this matter are very clear. In Part XV. I find that section 177 provides - 
Whoever - 
threatens, offers, or suggests any violence, injury, punishment, damage, loss, or disadvantage for or on account of, or to induce any candidature, or withdrawal of candidature, or any vote, or any omission to vote, or any support or opposition to any candidate, or any promise of any vote, omission, support, or opposition; or 
uses, causes, inflicts, or procures any violence-, punishment, damage, loss, or disadvantage for or on account of any such candidature withdrawal, vote, omission, support, or opposition; shall be guilty of undue influence. 
The next section practically covers the case of the Prime Minister, and as the Assistant Minister has just entered the chamber I particularly invite his atention to it. 
SenatorREADY. - I am very pleased that the Assistant Minister is present, and I hope that he will look carefully into this matter. Section 178 of our Electoral Act reads - 
Without limiting the effect of the general words in the preceding section, " undue influence " includes every interference, or attempted interference, with the free exercise of the franchise of any voter. 
I am dealing with the attempt of the Prime Minister to influence the electors of Australia by means of regulations by which it was sought to make the Department a drag-net for military defaulters. In Part XVII. of the Act, section 206a, I find the following - 
Any person who - 
is convicted of bribery or undue influence, or of attempted bribery or undue influence, at an election; or 
is found by the Court of Disputed Returns to have committed or attempted to commit bribery or undue influence when a candidate, shall, during a period of two years from the date of the conviction or finding, be incapable of being chosen or of sitting as a member of. either House of the Parliament. 
There is a clear statement that any person who is guilty of any attempt to unfairly influence the electors shall be incapable of sitting as a member of this Parliament. I invite  Senator Russell's  serious attention to these sections. 
The position is very clear. The law prescribes that any person guilty of thesepractices shall not be allowed to sit in this Parliament. I ask leave to continue my remarks at the next sitting. 
Leave granted ;  debate adjourned. 
I desire to make a personal explanation. In to day's  Argus  the following cablegram from the State of Tasmania appears : - 
Hobart (Tasmania), Tuesday. - At a meeting of the Returned Soldiers League, held to-night, the following resolution was passed: - 
That this general meeting of the Hobart branch of the Returned Sailors and Soldiers Imperial League of Australia protests against the appointment of  Senator Beady  as  chairman  of the Tasmanian Recruiting Committee, and asks the Prime Minister for his removal, owing to the insults he offered to the Tasmanian Returned Soldiers League during the referendum campaign. 
I give the statement contained in the resolution a complete and emphatic denial. The resolution is not only inaccurate, but misleading. It is not true that I, at any time or at any meeting during the recent referendum campaign, insulted or reviled or in any way cast the slightest suspicion of a stigma on the men who have returned from the battle-front, and axe now in the State of Tasmania. Instead of those conditions existing, the relations between returned soldiers and myself have been of a most harmonious character, and, with one exception, I have had nothing but the best of relations with these men. In fact, I think I can claim, as a senator who lives in Tasmania, that I have received as many requests, ; if not more, than any other Tasmanian member has received from the soldiers, and that I have always endeavoured to fulfil the requests and to help the men in' any way which has lain in my power. At my meeting in the Hobart Domain, which was the best one that I addressed in Tasmania, and at which over 5,000 persons were present, some of the most prominent of the returned soldiers thanked me for what they claimed to be a fair handling of the side I represented in the campaign. One. of them, who shook hands with me and particularly congratulated roe, was a leading member of this same Hobart body. 
It is indeed inexplicable to me why a body of men should take such a strange course as this, and I cannot too strongly repudiate it. In the same newspaper this advice appears in an appeal or a circular quoted in full to be sent out to the local recruiting committees by Captain Robinson,secretary to the DirectorGeneral of Recruiting,  Mr. Donald  Mackinnon, M.L.A - 
Enlist all the public aid that you can, and help from citizens of all classes and views. To win this war all must co-operate. 
Avoid all discussions which cause differences of opinion. 
It was my desire; in accepting the position of  chairman,  to follow out those instructions literally. I chatted on the matter with  Mr. Mackinnon,  and he specially stressed the condition that in asking for recruits for our Army the differences of opinion, the conflicts, and any soreness which might exist as a result of the recent campaign were to be entirely turned down, or, to use his own words, we were to start  de novo,  and to put all previous happenings behind us. As one who was anxious to help, recruiting, I agreed with that proposal, and I am fully prepared to carry it out. But my position in this matter is that I accepted the position of chairman of the recruiting committee for two reasons. The first reason was that I believed in the voluntary system, and the second was that I thought it my duty to take some part in the organizing work, in order that a constant flow of recruits might be secured for the men. at the front. It means work, worry, personal expense, and -time. All this I was prepared to give, and will give to some extent now,  but to me it is indeed' regretful that such an action should be taken without, in my opinion, just cause by one body of the Returned Soldiers Association of Tasmania. Speaking frankly, the only' construction I can put on this resolution is that it wears a strong political, aspect, and that is just the very thing which we were advised by the Director-General of Recruiting to put behind us, and start fresh when we were dealing with the new  scheme. 
In view of this statement, as I wish to help recruiting, I desire to say that, in order that there shall not be any conflicts of opinion, in order that the scheme may be harmonious, in order that we may get the best results in Tasmania, I beg to intimate to the Minister for Defence that I intend to resign my position of  Chairman  of the State Recruiting Committee, and will he pleased to help in my private capacity as a senator in any way that I can, and support the man who is elected as  chairman  in my place. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Home 
 Affairs now answer the question I put a few days ago as to the number of voters' in Canberra, Northern Territory, and other centres during the recent referendum? 
The information is as follows :  - 
The number of persons living in the Federal Territories whose names appear on the. electoral lists compiled, ' pursuant to the Regulations, for the purpose of the recent referendum by the Returning Officers,, and the number of persons to whom ballot-papers were issued, are set out hereunder: - 

<graphic href="080332191612131_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister representing the Minister for Some Affairs,  upon notice - 
Will he inform the Senate if any, and, if so, how many, telegrams were transmitted by the Chief Electoral Officer to the Presiding Officers throughout Australia, advising the questioning of voters of military age in the polling booths for the taking of the conscription referendum poll? 
Under whose instructions were these telegrams sent? 
If any, and, if so, how many, telegrams were transmitted to Presiding Officers throughout Australia cancelling the previous instructions? 
What was the cost of these two sets of telegrams ? 
The Chief Electoral Officer did not . communicate direct with Presiding Officers. The -. number of telegrams despatched to Presiding Officers by Divisional Returning Officers was nineteen. 
The Chief Electoral Officer, acting on a Regulation approved by the Executive Council on the 27th October - a certified copy of which was forwarded to him by the AttorneyGeneral's -Department - issued instructions to the Commonwealth Electoral Officers for the several States for transmission to the Divisional Returning Officers. These instructions were subsequently cancelled on receipt of an official ' intimation from the Attorney-General's Department that it had been decided not to proceed, with the Regulation. 
The number of cancelling telegrams despatched by Divisional Returning Officers to Presiding Officers was forty-nine. 
£53 10s.1d. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
How many men, called up under the Proclamation calling up men for compulsory military service) were found to be suffering from a contagious disease? 
The number in each State? 
Were they all released when the proclamation was withdrawn? 
The answers are -  1 and 2. This information will take some time to obtain, but action will be taken to get it, and to lay the information on the table of the Senate. 
Yes. Except a very small number who were too ill to be discharged from the hospital. By the repeal of the Proclamation these men were released from the control off the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs,  upon notice - 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the statement in the daily press that some of the gold free life passes on the railways of the Commonwealth issued by the late Minister have been returned? 
If so, how many have been returned, and what are the names of the gentlemen who have returned them? 
Do any of the gentlemen who have returned the said passes now hold life passes on. the railways of the States? 
The answers are - 
Yes. 
One -  Mr. Dugald  Thomson. Some of the ex-Ministers to whom passes were issued are at present away from Australia. 
Not so far as I am aware. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Did the Government cancel the order of the ex-Minister for Home Affairs in connexion with the visit of private members of the Commonwealth Parliament to New Zealand; and, if so, why? 
Did the Government cancel that portion of the order of the ex-Minister for Home Affairs providing free railway passes on Commonwealth railways to all ex-Presidents of the Senate, ex-Speakers of the House of Representatives, &amp;c, and retain that portion which gives free railway passes to ex-Ministers of the Commonwealth who have had twelve months in office- and, if so, why? 
The answers are - 
Yes, as it was not considered desirable, anyway at the present juncture, to provide members with free travelling outside the Commonwealth, unless engaged upon some definite public mission. 
The matter is under consideration. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
What arrangements have been made for members of the Expeditionary Forces who have been invalided back to the. Commonwealth suffering from mental disorder? 
How many returned soldiers are at present in the different State lunatic asylums in the Commonwealth?- 
Does the Government propose to provide separate and proper treatment for the returned soldiers mentally afflicted Or alleged to be mentally afflicted other than the treatment provided in asylums which existed for ordinary insane subjects previous to the commencement of the war? 
The answers are - 
Mental cases from overseas are treated in New South Wales, Victoria, and Western Australia, and kept separate . from ordinary civil patients. Every endeavour is made to give the necessary treatment for these cases without their being certified as lunatics. As the laws of Queensland, South Australia, and Tasmania do not allow of their being treated otherwise than as insane, the soldiers belonging to Queensland are treated in New South Wales, and those of South Australia and Tasmaniain Victoria. 
Three in Victoria,, two in Western Australia have been certified as insane.' 
As it is desired to obtain the services of experts in treating' these cases, , the various expert staffs of States are utilized. Returned soldiers suffering front mental disorder are provided with proper and separate treatment from ordinary insane subjects until it is decided by mental experts that the case is incurable,' and then the patients are- certified as insane, and placed under the care of the Master-in-Lunacy of the State they belong . to. 
Why female doctors are not encouraged to form  a  medical corps for service abroad,  notwithstanding that many lady doctors have offered their services? 
Are their services considered of less value than lady doctors serving in the Allies' cause, and who haverendered such valuable service? 
Will the Minister take into consideration the question of forming such a corps, to enable ladies in the medical profession to play their part in the war? 
The answers are - 
As far as is known the Imperial authorities do not employ female medical practitioners, except in non-military capacity, but it is known they were unable to place one unit offered by the Bed Cross for service in Europe. 
No. It is considered that female medical practitioners are doing better work by attending to the civil population, and so allowing males to go forward on active service. 
There are no suitable places for female doctors in the Australian Imperial Force, and no more Army Medical Corps units are being forwarded, but any applications will be referred to Imperial authorities to ascertain if they can be utilized. Very few have been received so far. 
How many casualties have occurred to the Australian troops since the commencement of the war? 
How many returned to the firing line from those that were wounded during the months of July, August, and September of this year? 
What were the casualties of the past two months? 
What numbers enlisted during that period? 
The answers are - 
Accurate figures representing total casualties under the various headings at the present time cannot be furnished. Many cases which were first reported wounded ormissing have subsequently been posted as deceased, 'and  vice versa;  similar alterations have, been made from time to time under the remaining headings, consequently net figures as at 4th December, 1916, covering the latest reports received, are only shown. The casualties from the commencement of the war up to, and, including reports received, 4th December, 1916, total as follows : - Deceased, 16,384; wounded, 80,295; missing, 3,264; sick, 17,618: prisoners of war, 834; casualty not specified, 299; total, 68,694. 
According to reports received in Australia, the total number returned to duty for the months of July; August, and September, 1916, are as follows, but the Department is not able to say what proportion, if any, of these were wounded during the months named :  - July, 1,531; August, 757;. September, 624; total, 2,912. 
The casualties reported during the past two months are as follow,but judging from past experience these cannot be taken as a complete list of the casualties that actually occurred during the period :  - 

<graphic href="080332191612131_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

The number of enlistments during the months of October and November, 1916, was :  - October, 11,522; November, 5,066; total, 16,588. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
If it is a fact that Judge Edmunds has given a judgment conceding to the miners of the Commonwealth eight hours from bank to bank, will the Government bring in a Billto make it a Federal law? 
The award of the tribunal has the force of law. 
The answers are - 
Wolfram, molybdenite, and antimony are not quoted, as they have been requisitioned by the Imperial Government. Manganese - Indian manganese ores, on 50 per cent. basis, delivered in England next year, are quoted in the  Mining Magazine,  London, for September, at 2s. 5½d. per unit, and Brazilian ores at 4s. 
No official prices are now given for wolfram or molybdenite. The official price for antimony is £95 per ton. 
Wolfram at 55s. per unit of WO3 c.i.f. London. Molybdenite at 105s, per unit of MOS2 c.i.f. London. 
Wolfram and molybdenite can only be exported through the Government agents. 
Dalgety and Co. Ltd. ; collecting agency commission, 1¼ per cent. (when they act as collecting agents), and export agency commission, lj per cent., but producers are at liberty to have their own collecting agents. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
How many press censors are at present employed by' the Federal Government? 
What are the name, salary, and terms of employment of each censor? 
Has the number employed been increased or diminished since 1st November last? 
The answers are - 
There are twenty -two officers employed as press censors in conjunction with their other duties, and the proportion of time engaged in connexion with press work is equivalent to the full working time of 10.85 officers : - 

<graphic href="080332191612131_4_2.jpg"></graphic>

The number of officers employed on press ^censorship has been .diminished by one since 1st November last. 
Am .1 to understand from the Minister's reply that one of the censors is employed only three-fifths time, and another only one-third time ? If so, will the Minister telL the Senate how, and by whom, a censor's time is determined ? 
Is it a fact that one censor is employed for only three-fifths of his time?  
I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the Supply Bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
I wish to explain, in moving this contingent notice of motion, that it is not submitted with any intention to curtail the privileges of the Senate in the matter of debate. Honorable senators are aware that on the first reading of Supply Bills general questions may be discussed. Such a debate might take up considerable time, and it occurred to me that honorable senators might prefer to take up the debate upon questions involved in the Bill on the second reading. 
Yes. If we did not suspend the Standing Orders the first reading might be taken as purely formal, and we could not go on to the second reading in connexion with which honorable senators may desire to discuss the financial proposals of the Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a first time. 
There is one matter which I take this opportunity to bring under the notice of the Senate. It is an important development, and one concerning which the Senate should be informed at the earliest possible opportunity. I should have given the information in. the form of a Ministerial statement, but on the motion for the first reading of the Supply Bill, honorable senators' who desire to do so may traverse the statements made, and I thought it better that they should have that opportunity of doing so. The subject to which I desire to refer is that relating to the supply of steel to the British Government for the purpose of assisting in the war. As I shall have to refer to the negotiations and cables, I hope honorable senators will pardon me for reading this statement: - 
Steel Production of Australia. Although there was general knowledge of the shortage of steel in Great Britain, it was not till July this year that the Minister of Munitions stated definitely that there was a shortage. The first intimations were in connexion with a regretful refusal to sanction exportation of steellocking bars and rings for the Adelaide waterworks, and the supply of boiler plates and blooms for railway locomotive construction. In January, 1916, the Imperial Government ordered 500 tons of shell steel from the Broken Hill Proprietary Company as a sample; and in August, after receipt of the steel, they ordered the balance of the unused Australian shell steel, 1,500 tons. In September, 1916,another order was placed for 10,000 tons of round mild steel bars for munitions; 2,000 tons of this has already been shipped. On the 15th November, a long cablegram was received from the High Commissioner regarding economy in the use of railway material in Australia, and, in view of its importance, a copy is attached. 
On the 15th November, a cablegram was received from the High Commissioner as follows: - " Minister Munitions asks: - 
What is the total estimated steel output of Australia for 1917, and could it be stated for two half-years separately ? 
How is output distributed as between domestic requirements and manufacture munitions? 
Could any material at present being devoted to domestic requirements be made available munition requirements without unduly hampering trade? 
Is there any increase in output in view at the present moment, or could any increase in output be arranged for if necessary? If so, what would increase be, and what steps will have to be taken to arrange for it? 
Immediate reply requested by Minister of Munitions." 
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited, Newcastle, and Messrs. G. and C. Hoskins, Lithgow, were asked to furnish returns of their estimated production for 1917, and a- statement of how their production is disposed of. Their estimated productions for half-year ending 30th June are as follows: - 

<graphic href="080332191612131_6_0.jpg"></graphic>

It will be seen that of the production of 93,000 tons at the Broken Hill Proprietary Company's works, only 17,150 tons is for domestic use, leaving a balance of 75,850 tons. This balance is made' up of 57,000 tons for rails (Australian Government Railways), 10,070 tons for structural steel (Victoria and New South Wales, Governments), 7,500 tons of mild steel for the British Government, and . 1,280 tons surplus production. 
At Lithgow, of the production of 38,096 tons, 13,700 tons are used for Government work, 1,011 tons for domestic structural steel, and the balance, pig-iron, 23,385 tons, usedfor domestic purposes. Note. - A large proportion of the pigiron for domestic use is utilized for making cast-iron pipes. 
A cablegram was sent to the High Commissioner as follows: - "Answering your telegram of 15th instant, Steel for Minister of Munitions - 
Total steel production Australia six months ending 30th June, 1917, 90,000 tons; 31st December, 1917, 75,000 tons. 
Domestic requirements solely. 
Government will make available during period ending 30th June, 37,500 tons, in addition to 10,000 tons already ordered by Minister' of Munitions. 
Will Minister Munitions take this quantity, or how much? Will advise later regarding supply for six months ending 31st December. 
Broken Hill building second blast furnace. If special material required from America can be expedited and prompt shipments arranged when ready Broken Hill, can after erection make approximately 25,000 tons steel extra half-yearly. Round bars, 4, 4½ and 5¼ inches diameter can be rolled in greater quantity and more expeditiously than structural steel, but will cable particulars of rolls ready for latter if structural required. Can also supply in addition above vast quantities iron ore 64 per cent. iron low phosphorus and sulphur, and can load into ships with draught not exceeding 25 feet at rate of 800 tons hourly. 
Early decision Minister of Munitions regarding steel will be appreciated enable Government make necessary arrangements apportion balance domestic steel." 
After Messrs. Hoskins' return came in, the figures were amended as follows: - 
Total steel production Australia six months ending 30th June, 120,000 tons, instead of 90,000 tons; 31st December, 1917, 110,000 tons, instead of 75,000 tons. 
Government will make available during period ending 30tn June, 50,000 tons, instead of 37,500 tons." 
As a result of this cablegram, the Broken Hill Proprietary Company has received a message from its London office as follows : - " Munitions inquire price per ton for 75 lb. per yard steel flange rails and fish-plates. Delivery at approved British port or France. Shipment before 30th June, 1917. Important know when delivery can be commenced, and at what rate." 
Briefly, the figures show - for the six months ending 30th June, 1917, a total production of 121,000 tons. To be made available for export - 50,000 tons. This leaves 71,000 tons for Australian consumption, of which only 41,000 tons are required for domestic use. 
Copy of Cable from High Commissioner, dated 9th November, 1916: - " The Minister for Munitions states that the shortage in supply of various metals necessary for the maintenance of railway stock and permanent way is becoming increasingly acute, and with a view to an equitable apportionment of such material as is available and to meeting the urgent need of various railways in the Empire, will you be good enough to furnish at the earliest possible date the following particulars arranged in conformity with the following schedule and certified by a competent authority. - "1. Quantity of material actually used in 1914 for purposes of repair and. maintenance of the railways in each State, leaving out new rolling-stock, whether by way of addition at cost of capital or replacement chargeable to revenue account: also leaving out of account re-laying of permanent- way . "2. An estimate of the bare minimum amount of such materials necessary for repairs and maintenance of railways during 1917, leaving out new rolling-stock. " Of the items scheduled there are difficulties in particular in supplying : -  "  (a) Steel sections bars and angles.  "  (b) Copper tubes and plates. " (c) Steel tubes. " (d) Steel rails.  "  (e) Steel sleepers.  "  (g) Steel fish-bolts. "and in fact possibilities of supply of any of the last four mentioned items by United Kingdom manufacturers at the present time are remote. " The Minister of Munitions also points out -that the requirements of the Admiralty, War Office, and the Munitions Department exceed the supplyavailable, and requests that every effort should be made and every device employed to diminish the consumption of material for railway purposes. The Minister further adds that this action is of vital importance from the point of view of the prosecution of the war. Since the outbreak of war, passenger services of British railways have been largely curtailed, and probable further reductions of these services may be necessary in the near future. The Minister is advised that a considerable saving in material required for maintenance can be effected, and he hopes that favorable consideration may be given to the desirability of adopting similar economical measures in the various Australian State railways." 
In view of the receipt of these cablegrams, the Government felt that they were absolutely justified in taking the course which they have taken. It will be seen from the figures I have quoted that we shall still have sufficient steel on hand to meet the domestic demand in connexion with necessary works. But nobody will contend, in view of the demand which exists for war purposes, that we should use up this steel on works which can well be deferred until this great demand for steel for war purposes has passed. 
It will be applied to all railways which can legitimately be asked to stand over until the demand for steel for war purposes has been relieved. The question of what works shall stand oyer is now the subject of negotiations between the Commonwealth and State Governments, and in that regard the Commonwealth will have to take its share of responsibility along with the other Governments of Australia. 
I can tell the, honorable senator no more than I have told him. The question of what works shall not be proceeded with at present is the subject of negotiations between the States and the Commonwealth. 
SenatorPEARCE.- The quantity of steel to be allocated in Australia will be allocated between the Commonwealth and  the State Governments. 
By " domestic use" there is meant structural steel,. as against steel for railway purposes. If honorable senators will turn to the statement they will see that it estimates 57,000 tons from the Broken Hill Proprietary Company alone for railway purposes, and 10,000 from Hoskins' Iron Works. 
SenatorWatson. - What effect will that have on the labour market? 
I cannot say. 
I believe as the interjection of  Senator Newland  suggests, that it will have an important effect upon winning the war. 
Yes, I do not object to the question. We are approaching harvest time, and apparently it will be one of our biggest harvests. We have already seen that the demand for harvesting labour is not met, as shown by the fact that men have had to be released from the training camps. I wish to take this opportunity of referring briefly to the Government's financial policy. In that regard I remember that  Senator Millen  rather questioned my action in leaving that out of the last statement of Government policy which was made here. There were reasons for that action. I think it is usual when a statement of policy is to be made that the financial proposals are left to the Treasurer, especially when he is about to follow very closely with a statement. It had been arranged at that time that a financial statement by the Treasurer would follow immediately after a general statement of Government policy, and in no sense was any discourtesy intended to the Senate. Otherwise, we should have had a financial statement made here before it was made in another place. The Government have revised and reviewed the previous Government's proposals for taxation and for revenue and expenditure, and have made some very important changes in them. In that regard the present Government had an advantage over the previous Government. When the latter framed their proposals they were not. so well informed as the present Government are, because of the fact that they were at the beginning of the financial year, as to the amount of money which would be required during the forthcoming year, and the figures proposed then were very largely in the nature of estimates, whereas over three months of the financial year had gone when the present Government revised the old proposals. We were ablethen more accurately to estimate the expenditure. It is obvious that it is extremely unwise for any Government to tax for purposes other than those of meeting the expenditure of thecountry. When we came to look over the proposals, we found that by the exercise of economy, by  a  reduction in expenditure in certain directions, and by reducing the payment to the sinking fund  to  liquidate the war debt, we could make extensive reductions in the amount of our taxation. I propose to indicate in what directions these reductions have been made. Take, for instance, the war profits tax. There was another factor which weighed with the Government there. Not  only did we come to the conclusion that we would not require to put on the amount* of taxation which the previous Government had proposed, but we concluded .that that proposed tax could very well be re-adjusted in the interests of the industries of this country, that there were some directions in which that tax would hit very hardly new industries, and would probably have the effect of injuring industries and preventing the development  of  them. There was still another factor. The previous Government . had proposed that there should be a tax on the profits of gold mining. The present Government took the view that these profits cannot properly be considered as  War  profits in view of the fact that gold has a standard value, and that the value of gold has not only not increased as a result of the war, but has actually depreciated. 
They were not exempted, and, therefore, they were included. The purchasing value of gold has. actually depreciated, so that not only is there no war-time profit in gold mining, but a special tax on any extra profit which may have been made during war time would really be  a  penalty. 
My remarks  apply  to any class of mining where the article has a standard value, and where the value has not increased  as  a result of t-he war. In some of the mining industries we know there has been  a  considerable increase, due almost solely to the existence of the war, and, therefore,  it may  be legitimately said that these profits are war-time profits. If a gold mine  has  earned more profit during the war it certainly has not been due to the fact of any increase  in  the value of gold. It  may  have been due  to an  increase  in  the' richness of the lode, but certainly not to the war. There is another factor that occurs in regard to all mining which the present Government considered the previous Bill did not take sufficiently into consideration, and it also applies in  a  large measure to other industries, and that is the question of waste profit, or capital. There is a form of what is called profit which' is really a repayment of capital. The present Government considered that the Bill did not give sufficient consideration to that fact, and so they amended it accordingly. I will now state the principal decreases. The previous Government proposed that the tax in the year 1915-16 ' should be 50 per cent., and in the present financial year 100 per cent. It is obvious that the latter proposal would take the whole of the war-time profit made during ' the financial year. The present Government considered that that was not wise, that it would not encourage industry, that it would discourage industry, and therefore we decided to reduce the tax this year to 75 per cent. In regard to the wealth levy. The previous proposal was that there should be a levy of l£ per cent, on the corpus of wealth', and that the payments should be spread over three years. It is pretty definitely understood now that the expenditure which this war levy is to meet will spread over a greater period than three years, probably at least five years, and possibly longer. There is no object in compelling the taxpayers, who* will have very heavy burdens to carry during the next few years, to pay more to this levy than what is actually required for the purpose, or that they should pay in advance of the - time when the money will be required, and therefore it is proposed to spread the levy, over a period of five years instead of three years. 
I remind the honorable senator that this is not the fund from which the expenses of land settlement will be met. The cost of land settlement is to be met by the States machinery, and the Commonwealth Go- vernment undertaking to raise money to enable it to be advanced to the States. It will not be from this fund that that money will be appropriated.  
To enable returned soldiers to re-establish themselves in civil life, to settle in business, or, "in cases where they have been rendered unsuitable for a former occupation, to be trained for a new occupation, and to give them a start in various small industries. In the case of a man on the land, advances can be made to him, in the way of sustenance, to enable him to tide over the first or second year. 
In some cases they will be loans without interest, - and in other cases gifts. 
The honorable senator is wrong, because, in some cases, there are gifts. Another important change which has been made in regard to the wealth levy is in respect to the proposal of the previous Government that' the war levy should also be made on war bonds. There was a considerable amount of doubt in the minds of members of that Government, as I know, as to whether they would he justified in taking that -action. There was a clear statement made by the previous Prime- Minister,  Mr. Fisher,  that the war bonds would not be subjected to Federal taxation. That statement was understood to mean the income from the war bonds. But the present. Government took the view that if we were to levy on the capital itself, that is, on the war bonds, it would have the same effect as though we were to levy on the income from the bonds; that to that extent we would depreciate the war bonds, and, therefore, depreciate the income earned by them. We felt that, in view of that promise or distinct undertaking, we would not be justified in carrying out a levy on war bonds. 
While tho statement was only made in regard to the first loan, it was repeated in regard to subsequent loans as the Bills were brought forward. Anyhow, we are advised by our financial advisers that, apart from the equity of the proposal, nothing would be gained by taking that course; that, if the Government were to levy on the bonds, we would depreciate the Commonwealth stock, and have to pay a higher price for our money; that we would lose in that way the equal of what we would get by a levy on the war bonds.  In  regard to the income tax, the Government are adhering to the proposal of the previous Government to increase the rate by 25 per cent., but there is an alteration to be made in regard to the exemption, which will disappear entirely at the figure of £1,020. In regard to the entertainment tax, the alteration made is that there will be no Commonwealth, tax on tickets below 6d.  in  value, and that the tax  will  commence on tickets of that value. 
Yes; tickets of the value of 6d. and over. 
I  could not give -the information. The following alterations  in  revenue have been made either by the Treasurer_in his Estimates or by the alterations in the various proposals that  I  have just roughly indicated : - 

<graphic href="080332191612131_10_4.jpg"></graphic>

The increase in the Customs revenue is not derived by additional taxation, but is based on the experience of the three months of the current financial year already expired. The Treasurer, in consultation with the Ministers of the spending Departments, has been able to effect substantial decreases  in  the expenditure out of both revenue and loan, as follows: - 

<graphic href="080332191612131_10_5.jpg"></graphic>

The decrease in the sinking fund is due to the fact that the previous Treasurer proposed to put aside £2,747,000, whereas the present Treasurer proposes to put aside only £1,301,778, which will extinguish the debt in thirty-nine years, and represents 1 per cent, on the loans raised by the Commonwealth. In the above decreases there i3 included £637,900 for expenditure on additions, new works, and buildings The total effect of the alterations is - 
Revenue decreased . . . . f 1,750,000 
Expenditure decreased ... . . 2,413,807 
Npt improvement . . . . f 663,807 
It is a bad way of stating it, because' it does not show the real position, but the figures I have given represent the difference between those two items. The Treasurer announces that he has been able also to effect reductions to the extent of £5,850,000 in the amount which the previous Treasurer expected to have to borrow. There again, of course, he has had the benefit of experience. For instance, the previous Treasurer had to consider the fact that the Government had issued a proclamation calling all men of certain ages into, camp and that a referendum was being taken with a view  to the adoption of compulsory service oversea. He had to adjust his estimate to meet the possibility of that being carried, and the men being taken into camp, trained, and sent oversea.- The present Treasurer, when he framed his estimate, knew that the referendum had not been carried, and that the proclamation had been repealed, consequently he had not to provide for the retention of the men ' in camp. He was able to1 get the exact' figure, which came to something under £400,000 all told, and did not have to provide for the same numbers of men being sent oversea. 
It is being reduced by £5,850,000, very largely owing to the factor to which I have referred. 
Yes. We shall, therefore, borrow that much less than the previous Treasurer expected to have to borrow, and the interest charge is re duced accordingly. That is one of the reasons for the decrease of interest which I read out in a previous list of items. 
.- I listened with a good deal of attention to the speech of the Leader of the Government, but regret that he did not let me have a copy of the statement that he read. I suppose I can put it down only to an oversight. Had no one been furnished with a copy I should not have said. anything about it. 
As the' Leader of a party of nineteen, I am entitled to at least the same consideration as the leader of any other party in the Senate. I am not complaining. I take it, as I said, to be an oversight. 
That explanation ends the matter so far as I am concerned. I hope my speech on this motion will be sufficiently "brief to satisfy even the Government. Financial statements are matters not to be- discussed merely with a view to seeing how many words we can pile into  Hansard,  but to be criticised, in order that the public may be able to understand what is taking place here, and the probable policy of the new Government. Last week I was met by interjections all round when I said that the honorable understanding, or arrangement, between the Government and the Liberal party was that there should' be a wateringdownof the financial proposals. I had from the Leader of the Opposition a statement that no arrangement had been come to. I accepted that, and still accept it. I had the same assurance from the Leader of the Government. Accepting both as= correct, it is rather interesting that we have here a financial statement showingthat the price the 'Government are paying for their lease of office is the wateringdown of the financial proposals -of'- the last Government just on the lines I foreshadowed. It will also be remembered that  Senator Findley  interjected that the very dogs in the street were barking the arrangements that were being made. 
I have accepted the statement. I am only saying that it is a remarkable coincidence that exactly what I sa.id would be the price of keeping this Government in office is the price that is being paid, and that the financial statement shows that the one section of the public that has received extraordinary concessions from the new Government is the wealthy section. We see that in the extension of the wealth levy over five years instead of three. The previous Government were quite in earnest about the repatriation levy. They were determined that the men at the front,- or those who might hereafter volunteer for the front, should know that we were determined to get money in hand, so that we might have ample funds' to provide for those who returned fitted to take up occupations. We all hope that when peace comes many will return fit and well, and we ought to have a large and well organized fund in hand now. We 'could do better with £3,000,000 in hand this year than with' £6,000,000 a year or two hence. Now is the time to make preparation for the repatriation of the soldiers, but this necessary work is being postponed! by the watering-down process from one-third to one-fifth. I suppose we may take it that a little more pressure from certain quarters will bring  the fifth down to one-tenth, and so on till the vanishing point is reached. That indicates the weakening attitude of the Government towards the repatriation -question. The, new Treasurer has also reduced the amount expected to be received from the war-profits taxation by £400,000 in the first year and £1,100,000 in the second year. That is a remarkable reduction of £1,500,000, and is quite a sufficient price to pay for the Government we have there. Any Government, arid especially this Government, that was prepared, without consideration at all, to "take any man between, twenty-one and thirty-five years of age away from his "business, and actually did so drag men away, leaving their businesses to take care of themselves- 
Yes, I quite see that I did. 
It will be what the Leader of the Opposition permits me to make it. This more merciful treatment of the wealthy section of the community comes very strangely from a Government that insisted on taking men from their business irrespective of the sacrifices that it caused them. It was the high-handed way in which men with small businesses were treated that helped to  bring  about at the , recent poll results so satisfactory to my friends and myself. It may yet be that this combination of parties, this 'Government supported by the Liberal party, both of which tried to -inflict upon this- country a system by which men could be taken from their occupations irrespective of what it cost them, - for a man earning £10 a week could be, and was, taken from his occupation, and put into an encampment where his full' return would be about £3 a week- 
Yes. The honorable senator can he early or late with such trivial interjections, but I am satisfied that the public will judge well between us. It comes with a very bad 'grace from a party and from honorable members who were prepared to take from their occupations and businesses men who were earning £10 a week and over and placing them in positions, at which they could earn £3 a week, thus compelling their families to live at a lower standard of comfort, to say now that the wealthy sections of the community shall, within the next two years,- be relieved of taxation to the extent of £1,500,000. 
If ever Australia is invaded there will be no occasion for any one to worry about that matter. 
I intend to come to that aspect of the financial statement in due time. The point I am making is thatit appears that the Government have suddenly discovered, by their treatment of the wealthy portion of the community - those people who are well able to pay rtaxation - that there are reasons why the financial proposals of the previous Government should be watered down to the extent I have mentioned. There is no occasion to labour the point. It merely requires to be stated to indicate what has. been in the mind of the Government. I am not saying that an arrangement was made, because that has been denied, but the statement shows the price the Government are paying for being allowed to continue in office. There has been an alteration also in the proposed tax on amusements which is to operate on tickets of 6d. and upwards in value. Had the tax been fixed at above 6d., it would have relieved that section of the community which enjoys sixpenny entertainments of a very considerable amount of taxation, and it would also have been a convenience to the providers of such entertainments, as they would have been enabled to give sixpenny patrons the usual entertainment at the usual price. . However, I have not much to say with regard to that matter. The chief feature of the financial statement is the unmistakable evidence it bears thatthe Government are slackening their efforts, and are getting into stride with the wealthy interests of this country to such an extent that it looks as if, before long, they will directly represent the wealthy people of Australia. 
I am aware that the Government have to pay, but I think the price is altogether too big. 
The honorable senator must not endeavour to score off any of my followers by endeavouring to protect me. I am criticising the statement because it bears out exactly what I said last week concerning the relations between the Government and the Liberal party, although the leaders, both of the 
Government and of the Liberal Opposition, denied that any such arrangement had been come to. 
I said at the time that I was speculating as to what the Government would do. I was anticipating what would be the price to be paid by the Government for being allowed to continue in office with the support of the Liberal party. I was entitled to speculate, and now I can speak of the facts which are disclosed in the financial statement made by the Leader of the Senate, and that shows the price to be even greater than I anticipated a week ago. 
I understand what my honorable friend means; and I remind him that as it is the parliamentary practice to accept assurances, I was merely following the usual parliamentary procedure. I might have started by refusing to accept those assurances, but if I had done that, the document which I have in my hand would almost make one question the accuracy of those statements. 
If the honorable senator waits, possibly I may say something which will give him a handler upon which to hang his criticism. This financial statement, I repeat, indicates the price paid by the Government for the support of the Liberal party, and it will indicate to the outside public that the financial proposals of the previpus Government have been watered down to such an extent as to be acceptable now to the party representing the business interests of this country. In saying that, 1 am not speaking as one who is adverse to the business interests of Australia; but I do say that in a time of war, in a great emergency such as we are now facing, while men are being called upon to offer their lives, it is not too much to ask that the big interests shall be satisfied with 7. or 8 per cent. of their profits. If honorable senators vote for this watering; down of the proposals of the previous Government, who contemplated ultimately to take the whole of the profits - after allowing the management a margin of 7 or 8 per 'cent. - I venture to say that from one end of the country to the other there there will be a feeling of keen disappointment. I- regret that in this crisis there has not been any clamouring that the big interests of the country shall do their full share in carrying on this war. It would not have been unfair, unjust, or unreasonable to ask that during this war the wealthy business interests of the country should be content with 6, 7, or 8 per cent, profit. To allow 50 per cent, of the profits would be an encouragement for some of them to go on, and with their powers of combination, organization, .and control of the necessaries .of life, enable them to make the cost of living higher than it has been in the past. 
I recognise, with the honorable senator, that during this war many businesses have been run at a loss, and it must be .remembered that the previous Government did not propose to inflict any taxation upon the people controlling businesses that were on an unsatisfactory basis. It was proposed that all businesses should be allowed a sufficient margin of profit. In the press, in this Senate, and in the other House, it has been well said  that this is the time when we should be " all in," and when there should be no holding back; and I feel certain that the people will be keenly disappointed at the financial proposals of a Government that will hold office at a price which will permit of this country being only. " partly" in the war. 
I will not permit the honorable senator to put into my mouth words which I have not uttered. I have never said or done anything to prevent men from going to the front;  but, on the other hand, I have used my best efforts to persuade as many men as could be got in Australia to go. The honorable senator will look in vain through my speeches for anything to justify a statement which he is trying to put into my mouth now. We are in a very grave position. While war is raging, while the business interests of this country are threat ened, surely it is a time when we may say to our great financial institutions, " The men who are fighting your battles expect that you will put money into the Repatriation Fund now as an encouragement to them to continue, and an encouragement to others to offer their 'services." That is the position we are up against, and because we are nearing the end of this session, and because the Government are anxious to get on with the business of the country, I do not propose to speak at length. In the few words that I have uttered, I have said all that I wanted to say concerning the price paid by the Government to the Liberal party for their support. Even admitting that no arrangement has been made, the price paid by this Government to the Liberal party for support is the watering down in the interests of the wealthy section of the community, of the financial proposals submitted by the previous Government. 
.- The Minister for Defence has this  afternon  read a statement covering negotiations, if we may so term them between the Imperial and Commonwealth Governments with respect to the despatch of steel from this country. In common with other honorable members of the Senate, I have had only the opportunity to listen to the statement, and have had no chance to consider it in detail. In the circumstances, I cannot say more than that I believe it is the duty of this country, without looking too closely into the effect which it may have upon local conditions, to do anything that we can which the Imperial authorities may suggest to help towards the successful prosecution of the war. One of the principal arguments used by those opposed to conscription during the referendum campaign was that we should be best helping the Allies by the products which we could raise in Australia. We have now been shown by the Imperial authorities one way in which we can give this assistance. I hope that, whilst not disregardful of the interests of local industries, we shall not hear too much from certain people of the effect upon local industries which this proposal to assist in bringing the war to a successful conclusion may be likely to have. 
It should be, but  on  this proposal we have an opportunity  ho test the sincerity of those who have been saying that we can help the Empire and the Allies in other ways than by sending men to, the front. They have contended that by sending the products of this country we shall be assisting to carry on the war. I hope that there will be no objection to the proposal on the ground that it may lead to the construction of this or that railway being delayed, for a few months, or even for a year or so. The Minister for Defence referred to some remarks of mine upon a previous occasion in which I directed attention to omissions from an earlier statement made by him. The honorable senator has misunderstood me. I was not then asking for a financial statement. The point I stressed then, and wish to stress now, is that the Government should have stated what proposals it is their intention to submit for the consideration of the Senate. There has been an intimation that two Bills dealing with war-time profits and the wealth levy are to be - submitted. But the Senate should be told whether the Government have other proposals to bring down, or whether this is the whole of the legislation they contemplate immediately presenting to Parliament. 
On a previous occasion, whilst the Minister for Defence disclosed the recruiting policy of the Government, he did not say what other proposals they intended to submit. Although this is not a new session , under the Constitution, it is, to all intents and purposes, a new session, and I had ex,pected that the Minister for Defence would tell the Senate what business the Government .contemplate putting before it, 
I wish now to say a word or two about the War-time Profits Bill. This measure seems to have perturbed the prophetic soul of  Senator Gardiner.  It has sent him amongst the prophets, and he has attempted to predict the result of negotiations which, in his opinion, have keen in progress. No one can misunderstant the tone in which  Senator Gardiner  accepted the declarations made by the Minister for Defence and by myself as to the absence of the negotiations which he had in mind. I want to say that they must have 'been very poor negotiators on be half of the Liberal party if this is the best they could get from a Government placed, as  Senator Gardiner  would have us believe, in the position of looking for support for which they are prepared to pay. I do not suppose that the Liberal party are at all satisfied with the proposals of the Government, and they must have had mighty bad negotiators if this is all they could get out of them, presuming that it was their, desire to make an utterly immoral use of any chance power which they might possess as a result of the; condition of affairs in Parliament.With regard to the War-time Profits Bill, the Government propose to reduce the tax from 100 per cent, tb 75' per cent. It does n6t require more than the possession of common sense to' show that that is justified. If you propose to take 100 per cent, of a man's profits by taxation, how long is he going to sweat and labour to produce- those profits? If you say to a man that with respect to all profits over 8 per cent, you will take the lot, do honorable senators imagine' that he is going to " shun delights and live laborious days " in order to make something more for the tax-gatherer. If you tell a man that you will take so much from him, no matter whether he works hard or takes it easy, he is not going to work hard when he learns that by reason of additional enterprise and effort the Government will collect the greater amount from him in taxation. 
What would be his ordinary profits? 
I say that no man will strive to make any more than ordinary profits if he is told that the Government propose by taxation to take from him everything over ordinary profits. It is a cardinal principle -with me that human nature is spread as thickly to the square inch upon one individual as upon another, and it is impossible to suppose that the business and trading ' community are going energetically to work in order to- make profits for the taxgatherers, unless it can be shown that in some way or another they will themselves derive some benefit from their efforts. This is to me so unanswerable that I believe that if -ohe matter were discussed quietly outside *-he political arena no  man in his senses would contend that it is possible to get as much revenue from taxation up to 100 per cent. as may be obtained from a lower rate of taxation which would leave the taxpayer something for himself. A fundamental objection to the Bill, however, is that its title discloses that it proposes a tax not on war profits, but upon war-time profits. There is a fundamental difference between these two. I admit at once that profits which are made in consequence of the war are quite legitimately the subject of special taxation, but it isquite a different thing to say that because a profitis made during a time of war it should be similarly liable to taxation. 
The Government are not going to distinguish between them in the Bill. They have recognised the immense difficulty and extreme complication which will follow when this machinery is set in motion, and they therefore propose to set up a board of reference to deal with each case on its merits. If I am asked to distinguish between the one and the other I say that I am nob so much concerned as to how that can be done, but I am concerned to point out that there is a vital difference between them. Honorable senators will know cases in point to mark the difference. I give one case to illustrate what I mean. There is in a suburb of Sydney an oldestablished business, started many years ago by a man who until two years ago owned and ran it himself. He started in a very humble way, and built the business up until he reached the stage at which, with gathering years and a competence for himself, he ceased to hustle. The business was conducted as a slow, oldfashioned establishment. Two young men employed in the business, managed with the aid of some friends to buy it out, and have modernized it. The first thing they did was to put an entire new front to the building in which the business is carried on. Then they adopted modern methods to push the business.. For the first year  in which they ran it it was all outgoing to cover the expense of making it a modern business. The second year they about paid their way, and this year they are securing some benefit from their enterprise and from the more modern methods they have adopted. Will any one tell me that this is due to the war? It is due to the introduction of new blood, new capital, and new ideas. Whilst the profit now being made is being made while the war is going on, it is not a war profit. 
It is equally open to me to say that but for the war the young men who have now got this business would be doing better still. I draw a big distinction between theprofits earned by a business such as this and by industries such as the woollen mills of this country, which to-day are making increased profits, not, perhaps, upon the individual articles which they turn out, but because of the fact that their machinery is running almost continuously. This is clearly due to the manufacture of cloth for military garments. These industries are making, npt merely a war-time profit, but a war profit. Then we can turn to the metal industries affected by the war. No one will dispute that they are making definite war profits. The steel industry, the Broken Hill industry of spelter, and the copper industry, are making war profits because of the enormous increase in the price of the products of these industries as a result of the demand due to the war. These profits constitute a legitimate field for the operation of the war profits tax gatherer. I dispute altogether that a business should be taxed on profits made in war time unless the Government can establish a connexion between those profits and the war itself. 
I have a word or two to say now about ithe wealth levy. I am unable to understand the plea tnat the war loan bonds should be exempt from the levy. First of all, it is not correct to say that any assurance or undertaking was given to investors in the war loans that they were to be exempted from other than income tax. I raised the point distinctly here, and I had from  Senator Pearce  the assurance that income tax was the only taxation from which investors in the war loans would be exempt. I pressedthe point, reminding the Senate that other taxation might follow, and it would be a monstrous thing to give investors in the war loan permanent exemption from all forms of taxation. If this proposal goes through, what it means is that any one who has invested his substance in war bonds will notbe called upon to pay a single penny towards the cost of the war. 
I do not say that he is going to become rich from the investment. SenatorFerricks is an investor, and I want to know why  Senator Eerricks,  because he has chosen to invest his untold millions in war loans, should be exempt from taxation, whilst  Senator Lynch,  who has put his money into a farm, should be taxed? It has been stated that although no specified promise was made, people who invested in the war loan were under the impression that they would be free from all taxation. In common with many other honorable senators, I have had opportunities to know something of the methods of those who are in a position to invest large sums of money, and I am strongly of the belief that they do not make their investments upon impressions. They read the prospectus of the war loan, and I have no doubt that they analyzed it with more ingenuity and attention than was devoted to it by Parliament. That they may have desired to be exempt from taxation I do not question. I am not speaking now with so much regard to the loans that have already been floated, as with regard to those which have yet to be issued. I desire that we should know where we are to stand. We should know whether those who receive interest on war bonds, and especially the bigger investors, are to be exempt entirely from any measure of taxation. I should like to put before honorable senators what we are doing for the holders of war loan bonds. We have first of all given the larger subscribers to the war loans a very substantial bonus in the shape 'of the remission of income tax upon their investment, although, when the matter was before the Senate, I directed attention to an argument which did not prevail with the Government - that income tax being imposed, not upon a flat rate, but upon a graduated rate, we were giving more to the big investor than to the small one.  Senator Gardiner  on that occasion, I remember, met the argument by saying that the more a man put into the war loan the more he was entitled to get out of it. The point, however, was that an investor who paid no income tax received in terest at the rate of £4 10s. per £100, whilst another man paying income tax at the rate of 3d. in the £1 got1s. l£d. in addition, and so receives £4 l1s. ld. for his £100. Then we come to consider the investor of large sums who might be paying 2s. in the £1 income tax; he wouldbe getting £4 19 s. for every £100 he invested in the war loan. 
I was not present when the amendment to which  Senator Stewart  refers was moved, and I am sorry for it. The only amendment of which I have any knowledge was one under which subscribers to our war loans would have been paid no interest. 
Honorable senators know perfectly well the views I expressed on that occasion, and I think that  Senator Stewart  will be the last to forget that there are times when a man is able to express his views in this chamber, but cannot be present to give effect tohim. At the present time we are paying the small investor 10¾d. for every £1 that he invests, but to the big investor we are saying, " That is not enough. We will give you more. We will give you 12½d. on every £1 you invest." That is due to the fact that the income tax is based on a graduated scale. Suppose that we abolished all these little side trimmings, and paid interest at the rate of 5 per cent. all round ? 
Yes, it would, because neither the Minister nor anybody else can tell me at what point the needs of the Commonwealth in the matter of taxation will stop. Let us take the case of the holder of war bonds whose income tax is in the region of 2s. in the £1. He is receiving as interest £4 10s. for every £100 he has invested in our war bonds. As he is exempt from income tax, that means an additional 9s., which brings his interest up to £4 19s. The Government now propose to increase the income tax by 25 per cent., so that, in effect, they are offering the gentlemen who purchased these bonds some months ago a further bonus of 2s. 3d. In addition, Ministers say to them, " We are going to collect taxation to the extent of 30s. per £100 from everybody but you." Altogether the Government are offering the large investor £5 4s. 3d. for the use of his £100, whilst to other people they are paying only £4 10s, This does not appeal to my sense of equity. It makes a distinction between the small man and the big man. 
But there is no exemption of the graduation. If there were a flat rate in connexion with the income tax, half my objection would' disappear, because everybody would get the exemption. 
I wish to deal with this question alone. The Minister for Defence has said that the Government would get no advantage by abolishing the side trimmings of which I have spoken, and fixing the interest payable under our war bonds at 5 per cent.  His  statement is doubtless based on the assumption that if the existing concessions are withdrawn people will not subscribe to our loans. But small men have found the inducements sufficient, and, apparently, it is only the large subscriber who wants more. 
They have paid as much as 6 per cent, on some of their war loans. It would be far better and fairer in connexion with future war loans to pay the market Tate of interest, and to strike away all these concessions and bonuses. Then the manwho invests £10 will get, proportionately, the same return as the man who invests £10,000. I hope that the Government will consider this aspect of the case, with a view to removing an obvious anomaly and injustice. I am utterly unable to see why subscribers to future loans should be exempt from taxation. We are going to call upon small farmers to contribute their share  to the needs of the State, and the man with a little grocery store will have to contribute to the Repatriation Fund. Consequently, I fail to see why the owner of thousands of pounds should not bear his share of the burden. 
No complaint has been made in regard to people being taxed for the purposes of the Repatriation Fund. Australia having sent her troops abroad with this promise ringing in their ears, it is only a fair thing. But I cannot regard as fair the proposal that large investors shall be exempt from this levy whilst everybody else shall make a contribution to it. Now I desire to offer my. congratulations to the Government. 
It is a good, sound, common-sense principle that of two evils One should choose the lesser. I wish to congratulate the Government, because, after many years it has at last come to recognise that Australia has been engaged in a revel of public expenditure which, the present Treasurer states, "is still rampant in both Commonwealth and State activities." I desire to stress the fact that it is not a Liberal Treasurer who makes this statement. True, the Liberals have been saying the same thing for many years, but they have been as a voice crying in the wilderness. 
In power! Why, whenever I looked at the honorable senator he would walk out of the chamber, and leave me without a quorum.  His  conception of power and mine are vastly different. In the Treasurer's statement we have the admission that there has been a revel of public expenditure, which is still rampant in both Commonwealth and State activities, and a hint that economies are being effected. This is followed by the declaration that greater economies will yet be made. That announcement is distinctly welcome. I say that any Minister who ignored the writing on the wall, and . who sought to continue public expenditure on the old lines, would be helping to precipitate a crisis in this country too unpleasant for serious contemplation. Whilst on this matter, I should like to know what we are spending on our ordinary services. With regard to war expenditure, this Chamber has never yet had a statement submitted to it showing what the war is costing us. It is all very well for a Treasury official to say that he can tell us. The fact remains that no statement has been presented to Parliament showing clearly what the war has cost, and is costing, us. I submit to the Minister whether it is not desirable that we should be givena clearer idea of the cost of the war than has yet been vouchsafed to us. 
No. Turning to an interesting pamphlet containing an interim financial statement by the late Treasurer,  Mr. Higgs,  I find that it sets out the various itemsof revenue and expenditure, and thenstates that the normal expenditure out of revenuewas  £32,000,000.  I have endeavoured to ascertain how that £32,000,000 is made up, but without success. It ought to be possible for the officials to present us with some very much clearer financial statement, showing what proportion of our expenditure is consequent upon the war and what proportion of it is necessary for the carrying on of our civil Departments. The country would appreciate that. "Until we can tell what the cost of the war is, nobody can say whether true economy is being practised or not. In the statement of the financial position by the late Treasurer, I find the following: - 
It is impossible in a brief statement of receipts and expenditure to show the whole of the naval and military items under two heads, for the reason that other Departments of State incur naval and military expenditure which is included in the totals appearing opposite the said Departments. 
I have drawn attention to the absurdity of this practice on previous occasions. Whenever the Defence Department requires certain works to be carried out, strangely enough those works figure under the heading of the Department of Home Affairs. I contend they are essentially Defence items, and as such should be charged to the Defence Department. The mere fact that that Department employs another Department as its constructing agent has no bearing on the question. 
This would be defence expenditure, apart from the war. The same remark is applicable to war pensions, which are charged to the Treasury merely because Treasury officials pay them. They are essentially a defence expenditure, and the sooner our financial statements are remodelled on the lines I have suggested the sooner we shall be able to know exactly what we are voting money for. To illustrate the importance of the thing, as that statement now appears, it would seem that for normal pur poses we are asked to vote this year £7,500,000 more than we voted last year. I ask the Government whether that is intended. As shown in that statement, the normal expenditure is £7,500,000 greater than it was last year. I do not believe that it is. It is not normal. There are included some of the items which I have referred to; they might become normal, such as the war pensions, but they are not normal in the sense of being the ordinary expenditure of previous years. I suggest that these figures, as published now, . place thefinances of the country in an extremely unfavorable light. I am perfectly certain that if the figures were prepared with the view to present them, not merely in a convenient form, but to show what we are doing, it would not be made to appear that in time of war our normal expenditure had increased by £7,500,000 in one year. Passing from that matter, I want to refer to the claim that we are getting away from the Treasurer's Advance vote. This Supply Bill makes no mention of an advance to the Treasurer.  Mr. Poynton  takes up the view - a very sound one - that we have hitherto given too much elasticity in regard to theTreasurer's Advance votes, and he proposes in some way . to minimize them, if not to avoid them. But this Bill does not do it. It is quite true that it contains no item called '" The Treasurer's Advance Vote"; but, if I understand what is in contemplation, we are asked now to give tothe Treasurer one of the biggest advances which have ever been granted. Let me show how it arises. The Treasurer had advance votes in two previous Supply Bills, and but of those votes he paid away for certain works, and for purposes exceeding the amount which Parliament had given him, an amount running into £1,020,000. We are now asked to vote £1,750,000 for specific purposes, but as  £1,000,000  has already been paid away from the Treasurer's Advance vote on these votes, it does not require to be paid again. So that out of the sum we are asked to vote now, £1,000,000 is going to the Treasurer to recoup his votes which he has already spent, and the balance to complete works commenced by the previous advances from the Treasurer. It would be just the same if it were put down," Advance to the Treasurer, £1,000,000, and for certain works, £750,000."That, I venture to say, is one of the biggest advances ever given to a Treasurer. It is twice as large as the advance given on the last two occasions, because it recoups the amount spent under the last two Supply Bills, each of which was for a period of two months. If that is so, I suggest to the Government - I assume that it is inadvertent - that the position has not been candidly stated. Unquestionably, the position is that the Government are seeking to avoid an advance to the Treasurer, whereas, as a matter of fact, they want a bigger advance than has ever been voted before. There is another matter I wish to refer to. I congratulate the Government upon making evena halfhearted, halting step in a very sound direction, and that is in regard to the sinking fund. When the Inscribed Stock Bill was before the Senate, I ventured to detect what was called the fallacy of the sinking fund. I said- 
Although Irecognise that I am rather out of touch with public sentiment on this matter, I believe that in course of time the fallacy underlying the establishment of so-called sinking funds will be perceived, and that the people of Australia will recognise, just as those of Great Britain have recognised, that the only form of sinking fund which is worthy of the name is a fund which is made up of the excess of income over expenditure. 
On that occasion I remember quoting from a recognised and very sound American authority, who demonstrated that, by reason of her sinking funds, Great Britain had wasted a sum of money greater than the whole cost of the Napoleonic wars. Of course, I am speaking of a sinking fund being a fallacy when the Government pay into the fund at the same time asthey borrow. Weare borrowing here: We borrowed last year some millions, and on our Budget appeared an item of some few thousand pounds which we paid into a sinking fund. We were paying into that fund out of borrowed money, for that is what it comes to. There is only one sinking fund which is sound, and that is when your income is greater than your expenditure. If it is not, although you earmark one particular pound for one job, just so long as you borrow at the same time as you have a sinking fund, it makes no difference to your financial position whether you pay into the fund out of the sovereigns actually borrowed, or out of income, and use some of the borrowed money for other purposes. It must be remembered that when you have a sinking fund and borrow money, every pound borrowed has cost something more than the interest payable thereon. The soundthing would not be to fool ourselves with a sinking fund, but to borrow less, and have no sinking fund at all. I am glad to see the Treasurer is commencing to recognise that. 
Yes, to borrow less, have no sinking fund, and wait until such time as the income is in excess of the expenditure, when the excess will be a genuine sound sinking fund. 
Yes, but for 100 years before she wasplaying the same stupid game as we play here. This system cost Great Britain enormous sums running into hundreds of millions. Instead of starting where she left off, we are proceeding to experiment for ourselves. The present Treasurer,  Mr. Poynton,  I should say, holds that view, and I am surprised that he has hesitated to give full effect to it. He states here - 
At present We have at 'the credit of Commonwealth Sinking Funds the amount of £388,313. Of this, £158,380 has been invested in Commonwealth Treasury Bills and £140,630 in Commonwealth Inscribed Stock. 
Before I proceed further let me direct attention to the fact that we vote here £150,000 to go into a sinking fund. We do not pay off any debt, but the Treasurer, as the recipient of the' revenue, comes along to the Treasurer, who is the official authorized to float loans, and he hands over a sum to himself in one capacity, and gets a piece of paper called a Treasury-bill back in the other. Having done that, he solemnly opens a big ledger account in which every year they charge out a certain amount of interest. What becomes of the £150,000 ? It has gone again in a loan. Would it not be better to have no loan, and use the £150,000? It is multiplying work at the Treasury, and creating a false impression that we are paying off our debt, whereas we are not. We are merely borrowing £150,000 from ourselves. Instead of going through all that nonsensical and tedious operation, it would be much better to vote £150,000 for the purpose for which it was spent. 
Yes, but we borrow against it. 
The balance, £89,303, is held in cash, and is now awaiting investment. Following the usual practice, the investment would probably be made in the War Loan. 
In .the name of common sense, what is the good of doing that? Instead of paying that £89,000 into the sinking fund, would it not be better to borrow that amount less ? That is the simple procedure. But, in some way or other, this idea of a sinking fund has a sort of charm. I do not know that I need except the Treasurers of the Commonwealth, but certainly every Treasurer in the States was under some pressure to borrow more money than was safe for him to borrow. Members responded to the aspirations of their constituents clamouring for the construction ' of public works, ' and it became necessary that money should be borrowed to meet that demand until the public became a little restless about borrowing, so some Treasurer con- ceived the idea of an anaesthetic, and called it a sinking fund, and commenced to strut about as if he had done some virtuous act. He would Bay, " "We have a sinking fund with a loan ' ' ; and criticism was supposed to be stilled by the sound of that magic term. If I borrow every year more than my income, it is only fooling with the thing to say that I am paying off my debt by establishing a sinking fund. If I borrow less than I pay into the sinking fund, there is no need for me to borrow at all . The people who lend money to Australia to-day are not lending it on the strength of the sinking fund of £380,000 which we have. They are lending on their belief in the integrity and good faith of the people of this country, and on the capacity of those people to yield the interest in the form of taxation. 
Thus our sinking funds are not held for the redemption of our loans - 
What are sinking funds for but that?  Mr.  Poynton  is quit© right. They are not there for the redemption of loans, because we immediately lend them to ourselves and spend them for some other purpose - but have always been used for subscribing to fresh Commonwealth loans, and the money has been expended for the Commonwealth's current needs. 
But. we were able to pat ourselves on the back and say, " We are sound financially; we have a sinking fund." - 
The position created! is equivalent to the direct expenditure of that money on Commonwealth present requirements. 
It is equivalent, and being so we might as well short-circuit, the thing and cut out all this pretence. It is not a sinking fund, seeing that the money we are supposed to pay into it is immediately spent in some other direction. 
What is the exception ? 
You cannot violate the Queensland sinking fund, because if there is any overplus it is immediately used by the Government to buy up some of their own stock on the market. 
But Queensland has no sinking fund. 
I wish .to express my gratification at the news which came through this morning that peace proposals - had been definitely made by the Central Powers. I have not read the details in the afternoon paper, but I take it as a very good omen that a step in that direction has been made. It is high time that the Parliament and peoples asserted themselves on the question of the termination of the present bloody and world-wide war. 
If  Senator Bakhap  takes that view of the return that Australia will get for what she has done he is paying a poor compliment to the British nation and its Allies. They have the highest regard for Australia and the work she has done in the war to date. I hold that the peoples, the Democracies, the workers, have the most right to decide these matters. 
I do not know them. I am simply expressing my gratification at the fact that definite proposals have been made. I think they should be made now on the other side. The proposals should be considered, and the Democracies, the workers, the soldiers, ought to be told what they are fighting for. We should be told how long we have to fight. Are we to continue operations until that stage is reached when Germany will be beaten to her knees, when the Kaiser will be taken prisoner and put upon an island as Napoleon was, and when the Christmas dinner of the Allies will be eaten in Berlin  1  If so, it is just as well that the people should know. I have for some time held the view that this Parliament should have taken, and should now take, definite steps to make representations to the Imperial authorities to state what the proposals of the Allies are, so that the nations will understand what is aimed at by each side. About five or six months ago I spoke in Brisbane in support of a motion that the Federal Parliament should be requested to make representations to the Imperial Parliament to endeavour to ascertain a definite statement of peace terms on the side of Great Britain, and, if possible, its Allies. After that meeting there was a regular furore of press attacks on the speakers, particularly on  Mr. Finlayson  and myself, for daring to make that suggestion. 
I was never more so. We have read from an, American war correspondent recently returned from the front the cool statement that Great Britain is prepared to sacrifice a million men next year.Is it unfair to suggest that those million men should have somesay in the matter ? Surely the workers have a greater right to a say in these questions, seeing that they do all the work, than a few men on top? If the Imperial authorities do not state their definite proposals, or do not consider the proposals advanced to them, I think it is time the people of the British Empire should havetheir say. 
I am not assuming anysuch powers of discernment, but therepresentatives of the workers are just as able to advance proposals, and have an infinitely better right to do so, than anybody sitting in a high citadel of authority. They have proved in the past that they are not deficient in brain or perceptive powers. 
I have not seen the terms offered. I want this Parliament to make representations to the British Government to state what terms they would accept. If the restoration of Belgium is what the Allies want, let them say so. I am not competent to decide such a question, and the honorable senator should know it. 
I want the Allies to say what their terms are. 
I quite realize that the great interest that is being shown in my few remarks on this question is not caused by reason of my arguments, or by the reason in my arguments, because rea son does not appeal to people so blinded. The unusual attention being paid to me by interjection and otherwise is due to an ulterior motive, shown plainly and in an undisguised form by my friends who are jingoistically inclined. They are saying it with a nakedness which is not even covered with a veneer of decency, and with an eagerness that they cannot conceal. They are hoping that I, as a member of this party, in a heated or impetuous moment, may make an unguarded statement which, while expressing my own view, would reflect upon the members of the party. They are waiting like a pack of wolves in anticipation of some scraps that may be thrown to them, not that they want tp utilize them for their own sake, but because, after smacking their chops over them, each of them would carry his share to their Critchley Parker satellites outside, where these scraps would be distorted, torn asunder, misrepresented, and painted in all colours, to be brought f orward at the proper time, not to. bombard me with, for I am always prepared to take the responsibility of anything I say inside or outside this Chamber, but to bombard the party with which I am associated. 
As a freedomloving Australian I demand that rope, and intend to take as much as I am entitled to. We are in freedom -loving Australia, and not in Prussia. 
If a public man in Australia had, in the early stages of the war, made the statements that Liebknecht dared to make in the German Reichstag, he would have been literally torn asunder. Now, with regard to the financial proposals enunciated this afternoon, I want to refer to a phase which has not been touched upon to any great extent up to the present. When  Senator Gardiner  was speaking about the relief extended to the wealthy section of the community,  Senator Newland,  by way of interjection, referred to the abolition of taxation on the threepenny picture-show ticket. I think  Senator Newland,  in all good faith, endeavoured to drive that fact home to  Senator Gardiner,  as a contention that ths exemption was a concession to the workers and their wives and families. To an extent it is, but not so much as it appears, on first sight, to be. The amount involved by the exemption from taxation of a sixpenny entertainment ticket would' be very small, and really not worthy of consideration from the stand-point of the Federal Treasurer, but it would be a big factor to the working man with a family. It must not be assumed that working men, with their wives and families, always desire an opportunity of going into threepenny seats at picture theatres, because such seats are only available at continuous shows in the heart of the cities, and all of the suburban shows, which are patronized by the workers, charge a minimum of 6d. If the exemption were allowed in respect of sixpenny tickets there would not Be a great depreciation of revenue, and at the same time the mass of the working people would receive substantial benefit. With regard to the commandeering of excess profits, I want to remind the Senate that the proposal of the previous Government was to take 50 per cent. of such excess profits for the last financial year, and 100 per cent. durin? the current financial year. Even ' that proposal was not as drastic as that of the Liberal Government in Great Britain, because the Imperial Government actually acquired 50 per cent. of the war profits, while the Labour Government here promised to take 50 per cent., but have not taken anything at all yet. 
Some war profits are being made in Australia, too. Unless the Government take the whole of the excess profits, the policy is unsound, because if 50 per cent. only is taken an inducement will be held out to the operator of a business 'to put up his charges sufficiently high to recompense him for the loss of that 50 per cent. 
The only sound method is to commandeer the whole of the excess profits after making due allowance for interest on capital. That, also,is the only scientific method of fixing prices, because it removes the inducement to inflate prices. I think the Government are making a mistake in suggesting that the excess profit should be halved. The Liberal Government in England are determined to acquire the whole of the excess profit, but we have not got up to that stage here yet. Regarding the question of an understanding between the Government and the Liberal party, I have no desire to say that a hard-and-fast compact has been entered into, but we can draw our own conclusions from a review of the interim financial statement presented by  Mr. Poynton.  That statement reminds" me of a remark I heard the other day in Sydney. I was shown a cartoon appearing in the Sydney  Worker  which depicted  Mr. Joseph  Cook turning the handle of a barrel organ, and  Mr. Hughes  figuring as the monkey on a chain. It was an amusing and clever cartoon, and when I showed it to a gentleman friend of mine, he said, "Yes, it is very good ; but it has one little defect. If ever you see an organgrinder with a monkey on his barrel, you will always see the pennies coming in, but in. this case  Mr. Cook  is getting no pennies." A perusal of this financial statement how shows, to my satisfaction, that the collection of pennies, from a political point of view, has begun. Although  Mr. Cook,  in the other House, and  Senator Millen  in the Senate, may express dissatisfaction at the concessions handed out to the Liberals, I may be pardoned if I say that  Mr. Cook,  at any rate, and I may include  Senator Millen,  were then speaking with their tongues in their cheeks, because I think they are pretty well satisfied that this financial statement represents a very fair step in the way of further concessions. If they can do so much without any collaboration or communication with the Government, we may imagine what a lever the Liberal Opposition will have when they make their representations direct to  Mr. Hughes  and his Cabinet.  Mr. Hughes  and his Government realize their position. They know that they cannot carry on without the help of the Liberal party, and, presumably, members of the Liberal party are prepared to bear that responsibility because they demonstrated the other day in the House of Representatives in a division on an amendment that they would stick to the Government. The manner in which the Liberal Opposition is viewed from outside is well illustrated by a paragraph which I read in the Sydney  Bulletin  the other day. 
SenatorFERRICKS. - That is the amusing part of the business. The  Bulletin  is one of the papers that howled loudly for conscription; that went bloodmad in the conscription campaign; that for many months howled in favour of compulsion, and extolled the Government for launching the campaign. Just now it appears to have turned right round and flogs the Hughes Government and the Liberal Opposition for keeping the Government in power. "When  (Senator Watsonwas speaking the other night on the question of the coal strike, he asked how much Mr. Hughes had done towards bringing about a settlement of that trouble, and I think it was well pointed out in replythat Mr. Hughes had done nothing. 
The coal miners brought about a settlement. They would never have received recognition of the eight hours day if they had not gone on strike. 
SenatorFERRICKS. - We have been told that if we were in Prussia we  Would  never have an eight hours' day. As a matter of fact, we have had the eight hours agitation in existence in our unions for sixty-one years, but  in  not  one  State of the Commonwealth is there a statutory eight hours day. In the face of all this, where is the value of our legislative enactments? I repeat that only for the coal miners taking drastic steps and going on strike they would not yet have had the eight hours bank to bank, though they have been fighting for that principle for the last twenty years. The part that  Mr. Hughes  took in bringing about a settlement of the coal strike was to say to  Mr. Baddeley,  one of the miners' representatives at the conference, " If you sign that telegram " - and to the representatives of the employers, " If you indorse it - I will send it." 
That was the strongest action he took. 
I know that even five years ago, in Queensland, we had to go on strike to get away from the ten hours day in the sugar fields. 
It shows that if we had not fought for the eight hours we would not have got the concession. Now I want to read the extract referred to from the Sydney  Bulletin,  which ran amok in its advocacy of conscription, and, in view of that fact, the opinion expressed of  Mr. Hughes  is particularly interesting - 
Prime Minister Hughes handled  the coal  strike for  a  fortnight, and left  it where  it was. Then  a  second-rate New South Wales Judge took it up and settled it in some sort of way within 24 hours. There is  a lot of  significance in this. The long and the short of the matter is that the principal supporters of the political Labour party will give Hughes no opportunity to make political capital out of them. Their business is to show him up as  a  failure. That is one reason why Hughes as a Prime Minister is at present a danger to Australia. He failed to do anything with the coal-strike problem; he will, for precisely the same reason, not be permitted to successfully solve the recruiting problem. And Joseph Cook, in deciding to keep Hughes where he is for a while, must be held more responsible for the failure than Hughes himself. 
If  Mr. Hughes  had shown any strength such a paragraph about him could not have been written. 
I did not contend that Judge Edmunds blew in on his own. Who made such a ridiculous suggestion ? 
What I say is that if  Mr. Hughes  had wished to show strength in the matter, he would have passed a regulation under the War Precautions Act providing for an eighthours day from bank to bank in the coal industry. 
That is so. If he had desired to do so, he could have done that. 
When  Senator Keating  says 'that I never opened my mouth in opposition to the last Government his statement is scarcely correct. 
The honorable senator forgets that there was no coal strike at the time. 
I say that the workers have been fighting in the Courts for the last fifteen or twenty years. It appears that the War Precautions Act and the regulations which may be framed under it are not intended for operation against the coal barons, but only against the workers. I pointed out the other night, when  Senator Pearce  became so frantic, that the  coal barons of Newcastle coaled the German raiders in the Pacific. They supplied them with coal which was used in the sinking of British battleships off the coast of Chili. But the Defence Department War Precautions Act and its regulations are not intended to be operated against them. 
They must have been, because they prohibited the exportation of coal immediately afterwards.  Senator Pearce  made a statement in this chamber to the effect that Newcastle coal had been supplied to the German raiders in the Pacific. 
I think that those who supplied the coal should have been dealt with under the War Precautions Act. They were far more deserving of severe treatment under that Act than were men who have expressed from the stump their opinions on the question of the war. Evidently the War Precautions Act was not meant for them, or to compel the coal barons to give an eighthours day from bank to bank. Some honorable senators here have had experience of what it is to work for eight hours underground. 
As far back as May last, before there was any talk of a coal strike, I denounced the Government in connexion with the same matter. The  President  will remember the occasion, because I referred to the fact that we had no statutory eight-hours day in Australia, and denounced all Governments for not giving us a statutory eight-hours day. 
Yes, and after the measure was introduced the New South Wales Legislative Council blocked its passage. 

 - Senator Millen is 'welcome to his opinion on that matter. I hope that he will be found as loyal a supporter of his chief,  Senator Pearce,  as I have been. 
Then what is  Senator Keating  complaining about? He has just been complaining; of the excess of my loyalty to  Mr. Hughes. 
In the first speech I made in the Senate I referred to the need for a statutory eight-hours day in Australia. 
Every time  Senator Millen  has had the opportunity he has opposed it. We desired that the power to establish a statutory eight-hours day should be given constitutionally to the&gt; Commonwealth Government, and  Senator Millen  and his friends tore around the country in opposition to the proposal. 
We always desired that the power should be constitutionally given to the National Government, so that advantage might be taken of it at any time. In the language of our friends, the exuberant loyalists, .in such a time as this- it might have been expected that  Mr. Hughes  would show some strength and give the miners an eight-hours day from bank to bank. 
Because it is only by the adoption of a statutory eight-hours day that we can prevent the recurrence of such a thing as a general coal strike in the future. 
I think that my attitude during the past two years and since the outbreak of the war willbetter bear examination than that of  Senator Keating.  Legislation brought forward by the Labour Government, which I believed was not in the best interests of the people, was opposed by me at every stage. It may be true that perhaps in a mistaken spirit of loyalty to the late Government some of us did practice self-restraint to an undue degree. I know that I did. I supported the Government whilst suspecting that the lines upon which they were proceeding were not in conformity with Labour ideals. The proof of the correctness of my suspicion is brought home to us by the calamity which has overtaken certain honorable senators from a Labour' point of view. Honorable senators may laugh at that expression, but I can assure them that in the opinion of a large section of the Labour party it does not overstate the position at all. Dealing with general matters I realize that the disruption in the late Labour party had to come. It was no surprise to me. Whilst there is regret amongst us as individuals and very great regret in some cases, because of the severance which has taken place, I for one realize that the disruption was long overdue. The wonder to me was not that the Labour party should be burst up but that it should have hung together so long as itdid. To be quite candid, before I became a member of it, I formed that view of the Federal Labour party by reading the Federal  Hansard.  I expressed the opinion very freely in Queensland that the Federal Labour party would never be worth a " tuppenny dump " as a reform party until it had gone through a cleansing process. Whether all who have gone should have gone and all who have stayed should have remained in the party, time alone will tell. It will be proved by the length to which the different sections are prepared to pursue the path they have chosen. It is my opinion that the Labour party to which- I belong will pursue the policy which, has marked its footsteps since the birth of the reform movement in Australia.- With regard to the recent referendum and the action in connexion with it taken by the Prime Minister, I think there are one or two matters which should not be allowed to escape attention: When the Referendum Bill was before the Senate, I raised lie question of the form of the question to be put to the people. The question was canvassed by  Mr. Hughes?  The electors were to be asked whether they were prepared, in this grave emergency, to do so-and-so during the currency of the war. The phrase " during the currency of the war " covered the phrase " this grave emergency," and its repetition was purely for the purpose of canvassing the question. 

 Mr. Hughes could not put a straight question. Evidently he is constitutionally unable to put any question fairly and squarely. Then I would ask whether honorable senators noticed any little innovation in connexion with the ballotpaper used at the referendum. There was one. It is well known that the names upon a ballot-paper are placed alphabetically, beginning with A and ending with Z. But on the ballot-paper used at the military service referendum the "Yes" was on top and the "No" at the bottom, "Yes" was not' on the top after the polling day, but it was placed on top on tie ballot-paper. 
Yes, since alphabetically N comes before Y.  Mr. Hughes,  or whoever was responsible for drawing up the ballot-paper, should have put the "No" before the "Yes." On every electoral ballot-paper the names are printed in alphabetical order. 
SenatorFERRICKS .  - This is the first occasion upon which I have noticed a ballot-paper which did not read' alphabetically. In connexion with the attitude of the Government with respect to the forthcoming recruiting campaign, I find that they are not prepared to submit to any experiments in recruiting. They are advocating a second referendum. The  Brisbane Courier,  which with apologies to  Senator Turley,  I will call the Government organ, is already advocating a second referendum. 
A question of life and death is one thing and a question of constitutional amendment is quite another. I notice that the Government are throwing the onus of making the new recruiting scheme a success upon those who voted " No " at the referendum. I take the opposite view, and I say that every fit man who voted " Yes " at the referendum is morally bound to enlist. I do not think that the Australians are made of the selfish material which some honorable senators would have us believe. If Tom Jones desires to enlist, does he turn round and ask why John Smith is not enlisting ? If half-a-dozen Australians were standing on the pier at Port Melbourne when a boat containing women and children was capsized, and if John Smith desired to dive in and save them, would he say to his companions, " I will not do it unless you come with me"? If he did so, what would  Senator Bakhap  think of him? 
They would not want asking. If  Mr. Hughes  expects his recruiting scheme to be a success, his first step should be to apologize to the majority of the people of Australia, whom he recently described as traitors, pro-Germans, and the recipients of German gold. Is it to these people that he is going to appeal? He certainlyowes an apology to the majority ofthe electors who voted" No " on the referendum. 
Yes . Letters constantly being received show that our soldiers at the front expressed their opinion on the question of conscription in an unmistakable manner. I have here a letter dealing with the treatment that is meted out to Australian soldiers in London, which I desire to bring under the notice of the Minister. There are parts of it which I will not read, because I am not personally acquainted with its author, but I am assured by the secretary of the Australian Builders Employees Union that he is a friend of his. I am prepared to show his name to the Minister. The letter reads - 
Salisbury Plain, 
England, 8th October, 1916. 
Dear Ben, 
Just a line to see if you can do anything for our boys on this side of the world ; you may not be able to do anything in a direct way, but indirectly you might be able to do a lot. I believe, by the papers that we receive from Australia, that the Defence Department are forming a Royal Commission to inquire into the severity of some of the sentences that have been imposed on some of our soldier boys. Believe me, Ben, this Commission is badly needed; God knows how bad. This camp is something frightful; a man tries his best to get on, and he is threatened with' the "clink." It is just "clink," "clink," from morning till night, besides being fined in the bargain. Believe me I have seen some of our boys in the "clink," and have had a £14 fine entered into their pay-book under a Royal warrant- that means that they will only draw 4s. a fortnight until the fine is paid. I have seen men clinked for neglecting to shave every day, for speaking' in the ranks, for having their hair too long, having a button off their tunic, &amp;c. Mind, Ben, I have been lucky so far; I have not been a victim yet, but suppose I will fall to the joke yet; but you can take it from me that the moment they confine me that's the end of me as a soldier. I have never been in as a civilian, and I'll see them further. If I fall to the joke, I give you my word, that when I go in I will commit a crime of such a serious nature that the civil police will confine me. Words fail me to describe this system, Ben, nor can I bring any specific charge on account of not being able to have access to some of the prisoners. From what I see of it, the tendency seems to be to make criminals out of our chaps. I suppose they would call it. trying to discipline us. That's wrong, Ben; our chaps take discipline all right, but they won't stand injustice in any shape or form. Believe me our boys are worth fighting for, they are simply marvellous. The people of England, fairly worship them. Mind, I haven't seen the front yet, but the British instructors and men that know say that there is nothing to come up to oar lads. The camp is good; better than anything we have in Australia, and the food is beautiful, but very light. We get four days' leave in London. Of course, some1 of the boys overstay their leave, and then they cop out when they are caught. Of course, they deserve what they get, as they are warned what will happen if they do. The British Tommies are perfect gentlemen, and our Australian instructors are perfect Australian adjectives. You would think, being from our own country, they would be better than the Tommy, but such is not the case. They put a man in the "clink" quick and lively. Well, I suppose we will get a vote on this Conscription question; I fancy we will surprise the people of Australia if we do, as I fancy I can see us turning it completely down. I will be very pleased the moment I leave this place for the firing line, and I think most of the boys are the same way of thinking.  We will be more than glad to shake the dust of Salisbury Plains off our feet. We expect to leave here in about five weeks from now, and I pray that it be soon. I believe from what they tell us here that it is perfect hell in the firing line, but anything rather than this. Remember me to - , and any of the boys. You can show them this if you like, and tell them, from me, that I am not talking through my hat. I believe if a little publicity was given on this matter that some of my poor Australian comrades, who are in detention prisons or camps in England, would be very pleased. 
In view of the fact that soldiers are returning to Australia every day, who are probably giving similar accounts of the Salisbury Plain Camp, it behoves the Defence Department to see whether some alteration cannot be effected in the direction outlined by this letter. In conclusion, I desire .to prefer a request to  Senator Lynch.  When I was speaking the other day he interjected that I had better be quiet otherwise he would tell the Senate about John Norton's editors, and blow me out. Upon the next occasion that he speaks he should in justice to himself and to me put the Senate in possession of the information that he has connecting  Mr. Dunne,  the editor of the West Australian  Truth,  and myself, and which will have the effect of blowing me out. I may add that  Mr. Dunne  is a personal friend of mine. I knew him when he was a leader writer on the Brisbane .  Standard,  and his calibre from a Labour stand-point may be judged from the fact that he was deputed to read before the Anglican Synod a paper on the ideals of the Labour movement. Latterly he has been editing  Truth  in Western Australia. - 
He is an anti-Labour man. 
He had the temerity as an anti-conscriptionist to oppose  Mr. Scadden,  and I believe that* I did inquire of some of  Senator Lynch's  colleagues what electorate  Mr. Scaddan  represented, and what were  Mr. Dunne's  chances in the contest. I did not know the name of the electorate from Adam, and I was informed by everybody to whom I spoke that  Mr. Dunne  had not a chance. As the election proceeded, however,  Mr. Scadden  was forced, evidently by the weight of public opinion, to- declare himself an anti-conscriptionist. But no sooner had he been elected than he turned round and joined the Universal Service League.- I have no quarrel with  Mr. Scadden  except on the question of conscription, and I have never seen him in my life. But I count  Mr. Dunne  amongst my close and valued friends, and I appeal to  Senator Lynch  on the next occasion that he addresses the Senate to tell what he knows about us, and thus give effect  toy  his threat to " blow me out." 
I cannot help wondering why the usual course has been departed from, and why we have not had a Minister speaking on the question which was so earnestly debated here last week. Apparently the discussions on the Supply Bill and the Ministerial Statement are to be taken together. A number of honorable senators, thinking they will not get much opportunity this week to continue the debate on the statement, will avail themselves of the opportunity presented by this Bill to ventilate their opinions on the matter set out in the statement. 
I do not think that any honorable senator is anxious to discuss the vital matters mentioned in the Ministerial Statement twice, and there is no desire to unduly delay the passage of this Bill. We are now nearing the date on which the Senate will probably rise over the Christmas holidays. 
The honorable senator may be able to tell us that. Certainly I cannot do so.  Senator Millen  is now in the councils of the Government and I am not. It does seem remarkable that no Minister has yet seen fit to rise for the purpose of answering any of the criticisms that have been passed upon the Government in regard to some of the very important matters mentioned in the Ministerial Statement. Is there a conspiracy of silence on thepart of my honorable friends opposite ? It certainly looks like it. On the question which was debated last week as to whether we should disallow a certain regulation, two Ministers did speak. But on the great issues mixed up with the question of Supply, no Minister has thought fit to put his views before the Senate or the country, or to make any explanation. 
No.  Senator Pearce  made a very brief public statement. In fact, it was almost a formal statement giving facts which everybody knew - namely, that there had been certain resignations from the old Government, that those vacancies had been filled, and that a new Government had been appointed, but not one word did he say as to what had brought about the resignation of the old Government and the various events which happened afterwards. My old and esteemed personal friend,  Senator Russell,  has also sat remarkably silent, and  Senator Lynch,  strange to say, has also been able to keep himself silent onthis question. 
We all like to hear the honorable senator speaking. As regards the Supply Bill, I cannot understand the change which in a few weeks has come over the taxation views of certain members of this Government. I remember, sir, as you do, that not many months ago a conference was held of a certain body connected with the InterState Labour movement, and that it was decided that there should be a recommendation to the Federal Government that a war profits tax should be imposed, not to take only 50 per cent. of the war profits, but to absorb the whole of them. The Prime Minister was at the conference. It is a well-known fact - because of the statement which was issued later - that after the Labour party met, and before the split occurred, he, in conjunctionwith  His  Ministerial following, and supported by the party behind him, decided that not only should we take 50 per cent. of the profits in the first year, but the full amount of the profits in the second year. 
It does not matter very much who is behind the Prime Minister, or what party is bringing forward the war profits tax. It does seem to me, as a layman, that it is the height of absurdity to talk about a war profits tax, and to take only 50 percent. of the profits; in other words, to allow 6 or 7 or 8 per cent. as a reasonable margin for business profit, and then to take 50 per cent. of the profits in the first year and 75 per cent. in the second year, instead of taking the lot. What does it mean ? 
No. The veriest tyro in finance, the merest school-boy who can do a simple sum and read the press, knows that unless we take the whole of the war profits, after leaving a reasonable margin, a business man will simply pass the tax on to the public. 
The business man will take care that he will get the same measure of profit out of his business. 
It can have only one effect, and that is to keep on increasing the prices of commodities to the public, unless we take the whole of the profits, leaving, of course, a reasonable margin" to the business man. It is a war profits tax, and not a tax for ordinary requirements. If the country is entitled to have war profits at all, it is entitled to have all those profits over and above what 
Would beconsidered as reasonable profits in ordinary times. Otherwise it will only give an incentive to business men to increase the prices of commodities, so that after giving 50 per cent, in the first year, and 75 per cent. in the next year, they will still have pretty large profits over and above the reasonable margin. Touching the general situation, I see only four men here who came into the Senate in 1901 as members of the original Federal Labour party. Two of them are still members of that party, while two of them belong to another party, having of their own free will broken away. 
That interjection comes strangely from the honorable senator, because I remember reading a report of a meeting where he announced that certain public men had called themselves the National Labour party. 
Wherein lies the reason to distinguish if the honorable senator and his friends still belong to the same old party ? 
SenatorMillen. - You kicked them out, and then accused them of leaving you. 
I wish to make that matter perfectly clear. There has been a good deal of misconception and misrepresentation in that regard, and it is just as well that the public should know the facts from  Hansard.  Our honorable friends say that they were compelled to split from their old friends of the Labour party because they were driven out. 
They left tha Labour party of their own free will, following  Mr. Hughes- 
Simply because they refused to accept majority rule. 
If  Senator Russell  is an exception we shall be interested to hear him. I believe that there are special reasons in his case. 
Well, the honorable senator attended it. I believe that there are special reasons in his case, and we shall be interested to hear those reasons from him. I repeat the statement that our friends, comprising about a third of the members in the two Houses, left the original Labour party simply because they refused to accept majority rule ? 
I mean the old Labour party. 
Majority rule is the basis on which the Labour party in Australia has been built up. 
Majority rule has always been accepted by my honorable friend  Senator Russell,  and I can assure him that this division is not a pleasant tiling to me. Perhaps it is more painful to me than to most honorable senators, for the reason I stated just now. There are four of us who have stood liere loyally shoulder to shoulder since 1901, who have fought loyally according to the platform which we had signed, and who kept an fighting together until the last few weeks. At the present time  Senator Stewart  and I sit on this side of the chamber, while Senators de Largie and Pearce sit on the other side. For that reason it is a Dainful thing to me to find myself even politically separated from my honorable friends. I hope that we shall never be more than politically separated, and I do&gt; not think that we shall. 

 Sitting suspended from6.30 to 8 p.m. 

It is only fair to those who still belong to the Labour party that the position should be put clearly. The members of this party have been blamed by those who left it for having turned them out. It has been said that those who left the party, and who, according to interjections, still claim to belong to it, had no option but to leave, because they had been declared to be outside the party prior to this split taking place within Parliament. I am going , to put what really did happen on the official records, and I appeal to my honorable friends to correct me if I say anything which" is not correct. When the Parliamentary party meton a certain Tuesday, and asked the Prime Minister'to make a statement, he refused. He met the party by appointment. In other times, and other circumstances, there would have been no reason to ask him to call a meeting of the party, but, apparently, he was not anxious to have a meeting. He was still leader up to that time, because he had not been deposed. He came into the full meeting, practically every member being there, and took the chair. The minutes of the previous meeting were read, and he then asked, "What is the next business?" Somebody, or several at once, interjected, " Have you no statement to make ?" He replied, "I have been asked to convene a meeting. Surely the gentlemen who asked , me to convene it know what they wanted me to convene it for," or words to that effect. 
Even  Senator Henderson  says, " Quite right" to that. I simply want to put the facts on record to correct misrepresentations which have gone abroad to the public. 
This business has not been kept secret.  Senator de  Largie made a public statement of his version of what happened. There is no question of secrecy now between the members on this side and those who left the Labour party. 
They have left the Labour party absolutely of their own free will. 
The " mob " with which I am associated, to use  Senator. Newland's  language, still belong to: the Labour party. I shall not call my friends on the other side a mob, for I would like this discussion to be on somewhat different lines. Up to that point, my friends admit that what I have stated is correct. The Leader of the Labour party who, up to that moment, was leader because he occupied the chair, a fact which showed him to be the leader still, instead of following his usual course after a recess, and making a statement, waited, and when asked if he had no statement to make, replied that the gentlemen who convened the meeting ought to know what they convened it for. 
Then so far we agree. He was then asked," Have you no statement to make?" and when he said " No,"  Senator de  Largie is correct in. saying that a member moved that he no longer possessed the confidence of the party as leader. 
I am only stating what occurred. So. far as concerns any knowledge I have of anything which might have occurred before, that is the reason, and I am going to show  Senator Pearce  that what I say is correct. 
I do not know whether it was or not. It may have been, butif it was I know nothing about it. 
Of course I did. I shall have something to say about that in a minute. When the motion that  Mr. Hughes  no longer possessed the confidence of the Labour party was. put, a number of us rose at once and a number of us spoke. Will  Senator Pearce  or  Senator de  Largie deny that I made an earnest appeal to  Mr. Hughes  to make a statement, and outlined a motion which I had prepared ?I was going to move it as % motion, showing that I knew absolutely nothing about what wassaid to have gone before, or about the other motion having' been prepared. I went into the meeting With the motion written out, but, in consequence of what happened, I had to move it as an amendment. 
The honorable senator says that somebody had his mind made up. I did not say so, because I did not know anything about that. But, and this is the fact that the public want to know, I outlined an amendment which I had prepared as a substantive motion. 
Then I am not doing anything unfair in stating the terms of that motion, because this is a question on which we want the light let in. 
They have heard it from one side only. Now they will get it from the other. The terms of my motion, or amendment, without pretending to give the exact words, were : That an Inter-State Labour Conference be called within thirty days; that the whole of the members of the Ministry who had resigned be reinstated and carry on the Government until such Inter-State Conference was held, but that that meeting, and every memberin that meeting, including the Leader and the other Ministers, pledge themselves to abide by the majority verdict of that Inter-State Conference on the question as to whether the then Government should continue in office as a Labour Government, as it was before, or whether they should hand in their resignations and let a new Government be appointed. . If that was not a fair motion, I want honorable senators to give me their ideas of fairness. 
I knew, and know, nothing about that. If the members of the Ministry and those who have followed them still believed that majority rule should prevail; if they still believed that that should be the basic principle of the Democracy which had built up the Labour movement, they should have been prepared to accept that amendment. But the Prime Minister absolutely refused to accept it. Why ? 
That is tantamount to saying that if nine out of every ten Labour members were against him, and it did not suit him to resign,  Mr. Hughes  must still be the dictator, still be the czar; he must be right and the other nine wrong. 
I do not know whether it was ; it was not a revolt against the Federal executive, because that body had made no declaration. It was not a revolt against the Tasmanian executive which was the only executive that I recognised. 
I could do that quite in consonance with the action of the State executive to which I owe allegiance - the central body of the Labour movement in Tasmania. That body left every Federal member from Tasmania absolutely free to follow the dictates of his own reason. Other honorable senators from? Tasmania can bear out what I say, and I believe it was the same in the case of one other State. 
I shall come to that in good time. That being so, the motion I moved was in order, and5 quite in keeping with the desires of the central body in my own State.If the Prime Minister still believed that he was  a  Labour man, if he still believed in majority rule as the basic principle of the Labour movement, he should have accepted that amendment, but he absolutelyrefused. A number of other members then spoke, including  Senator Lynch,  and then  Mr. Hughes  who, till that moment, was the Leader of the Labour party, because, up to then, he had not left the chair, suddenly got up. Instead of being content to accept the majority vote of that big meeting of the party which had' built him up and made him Prime Minister - for, brilliant and capable man as he is, and as everybody acknowledges him tobe, he could never have,, been Prime Minister but for the loyal support of the party behind him - he absolutely refused to have anything to do with that party, two-thirds of whom were against him. 
Why? What reason did he give? 
Did he not say something before he- walked out? ' . 
As a matter of fact, he broke a most vital pledge of the party when, a few minutes before, he refused to abide by the decision of the majority of the party in caucus, because he evidently considered that he was the only man fit to lead Australia. He said : " Let my friends follow me," and a number of them did so. I am not blaming them for their action, but my own opinion is that it was due to a mistaken sense of loyalty to their old leader. They followed him, and with him left the Labour party. 
And the honorable senator wanted to smooth it over. 
But why did not your leader vote for it too? 
Pay up. 
I rejoice that there are men who do not see eye to eye with me, and that there are some who regard those sentiments, to which I gave utterance in England, with abhorrence. I am glad of it. All I say is this, that I have tried during my political life to pursue the light as I know it, and as I have madeperfectly clear to the people of every part of the Empire, as well as to my fellow citizens here, I am following, it. now, and shall go on to the end. (Loud cheers.) If they can arrest my progress, let them do it - but they will not. (Cheers.) 
Those cheers came from men who hitherto had always been ready to cut his political throat. 
I am following it now, and shall go on to the end. If they can arrest my progress, let them do it. 
That is a fine democratic sentiment from a Prime Minister who up to' then had always bowed to the rule of the majority of his party, and who was always prepared to consult his colleagues. Later on, he said -  . . We must resolve to sacrifice all things that we may be victorious. That resolve animates the whole people of the Empire. That resolve spurs me on to do what in me lies, and in doing it I believe I shall have the support of nine-tenths of the people of Australia. 
No. "To go on to' victory." 
Who? Those who did not want victory. 
What alternatives are offered to voting "Yes " for reinforcements ? There is not alternative save one, that it will cover Australia with eternal dishonour. 

 Senator Pearce had something to say the other day as to the way Germany viewed the result of the referendum vote, but I would ask who is to blame if Germany had reason to be pleased with the result of that vote. The Prime Minister, before the vote was taken, and when he believed that he would receive a big majority at the referendum, said that a "No" vote would cover Australia with eternal dishonour. If Germany has gained anything, and if Australia and the Allies have lost anything as the result of the vote at the referendum, it is the Prime Minister who is to blame, and no one else. 
 Senator O'Keefe  agreed to the referendum. 
If you vote " No " when you know that men cannot be obtained By voluntary enlistment, your action is one of shameful abandonment of the Allies who have been fighting your battle. If you vote " No " you are guilty of craven desertion of your own Australian soldiers. You cannot vote " No " and look the world in the face. You cannot turn down Britain's request for reinforcements and still claim her. protection. 
That is signed " W. M. Hughes." Yet the Prime Minister and his friends who have preferred to remain loyal to him rather than to the Labour movement which made them members of this Parliament, are blaming us because we went to the party meeting to demand an explanation from  Mr. Hughes.  We should have received a reasonable explanation of these things, or he should have been deposed from his leadership. 
How much freedom did we get from the conscription side ? 
He had not heard the Mayor prac tically open the" meeting with the observation -"If you vote 'No' you will be voting as theKaiser would wish you to vote." 
Every one else who was present at the meeting heard the mayor say that. This was a big public meeting, held in connexion with a question upon which the people of Australia, from Sydney to Fremantle, and from Port Darwin to the southern part of Tasmania, were about equally divided as to what was the proper thing to do. The mayor, in opening the proceedings of the meeting, made the remark that those who voted " No " wouldvote as the Kaiser wished them to vote. It is no wonder that a number of the free electors of Tasmania resented that kind of thing. The officer in this case went on to say - 
He declined to express an opinion on that observation if it were made. He did not hear  Mr. Cook  open his speech by saying, " I came down on the train to-day with an I.W.W. man." 
What had that to do with the meeting? The obvious inference from the statement was that  Mr. Joseph  Cook tried to link up the anti-conscriptionists with the Industrial Workers of the World man who was in the train. There was probably no Industrial Worker of the World man on the train. 
He would not venture on an opinion as to whether such an observation, if made, was peaceful or not. If  Mr. Cook  said there Were plenty of Germans in the hall he spoke the truth, because he saw Germans there himself. If Mr.' Cook said there was German gold behind this he might have his opinion, but would not express it. He could not say anything there one way or the other as to whether such an observation was insulting to citizens or not. If  Mr. Cook  said all the brains were on one side, and all the clamour and extremists on the other side, he would not say there that that was insulting or "a direct incitement to disorder. No insulting words, if they were insulting, could justify a breach of the law. If  Mr. Cook  said those who were opposing his view were scabbing  on  their mates, he would not discuss the question as to whether that line of argument was likely or hot to incite disturbance at the meeting. . . 

 Mr. Chant, in speaking, said ; 
 It was suggested it was  Mr. Cook's  meeting. He submitted it was nothing of the kind. It was not  Mr. Cook's  meeting. It was a meeting of the citizens of Hobart, called officially by the Mayor, and was no more  Mr. Cook's  meeting than his. The Mayor invited the people to hear the Right Honorable  Mr. Cook  on a certain question. The citizens had as much right  ?o  resent  Mr. Cook's  remarks in a loud tone as  Mr. Cook  had to make insulting remarks, which the audience may have naturally resented; indeed, they had more right. If  Mr. Cook  said the things imputed to him, was it not probable persons present would resent them ? The Court had nothing^ to do with whether they were right in resenting such language or not. 
My object in reading these quotations is to show that  Mr. Joseph  Cook tried to associate certain people with the anticonscriptionists. A number of the men who were prosecuted were fined amounts of 10s. or ?1, with costs, for disturbing  Mr. Joseph  Cook's meeting. I could have had fifty leading residents of Burnie prosecuted for disturbing the meeting which was addressed by  Mr. Lyons  and myself two nights before the holding of the re ferendum. I would not do that, because I recognised that we were dealing with a big public question, upon which there was ground for difference of opinion. 
At the Launceston Police Court  yesterday  before  Mr. E.  L. Hall, P.M., and  Mr. p!  Boland, J.P., Annie Brooks was charged with having, on 25th October, behaved in a disorderly manner at  Senator T.  J. K. Bakhap's meeting. Defendant pleaded not guilty, and was defended by  Mr. M.  J. Clarke. SubInspector Lonergan prosecuted. Constable Herbert gave evidence that the defendant was behaving in a disorderly manner at the meeting, and was shouting in a loud tone of voice. Amongst other things, she shouted out, "You Chinaman, you ought to be back in China." When he spoke to her, she only laughed at him. Superintendent Hedberg corroborated Constable Herbert's evidence as to the defendant laughing. He did not hear any interjections; it was one continuous noise. Defendant gave evidence on her own behalf. She did not call  Senator Bakhap  a Chinaman, and said nothing while he was addressing the meeting. Constable Herbert was sitting two seats behind her, and she did not hear him speak to her. liliza Murphy, a married woman, gave corroborative evidence. The Bench held the case proved, and fined defendant £2 10s., with 12s. costs, in default three weeks. 
And that woman's husband was at the front fighting for Australia. 
We are anxious to preserve the secrecy of the ballot. There is nothing for which we would fight with more determination, because no other party has gained more by the secret ballot than the Labour party. There would not have been a Labour party if there had not been a secret ballot; I doubt if there would have been a Labour member in any House of Legislaturein Australia. We owe our opportunities more to the secret ballot than to anything else on the statute-book. 
There are other members of the Ministry who have had something to say on this subject. 
I venture to say that many thousands of persons got on the roll within one month of the prescribed time. It is of no use to talk about what electors ought to do, to say that they ought to' be sleeplessly vigilant. They ought; but they arc not, and honorable members on the other side should thank God for it. During the greater part of the time people take very little interest in politics; but they wake up with a feverish anxiety a fewweeks or days before the election, and go about trying to make up for lost time. Just before the last election they came in their thousands to try to get on the roll. 
He also had something more to say - something very strong - about the secrecy of the ballot - 
It must be known, and it shall be known, to the people, that while the Labour party are ready, willing, and anxious that every sick man and every sick woman in the country shall vote and have the opportunity to vote, they are not willing, and will not permit the power of money, and the influence of money, to violate the secrecy of the ballot. 
A few of the other Ministers also spoke on this question.  Mr. Archibald,  for example, said - 
I appeal to honorable members opposite not to be so eager to pass proposals of this kind. 

 Mr. Hughes on the occasion of the recent referendum did something much worse than was attempted by  Mr. Joseph  Cook or the members of his Government.  Mr. Archibald  proceeded - 
Australia's great strength lies in the homes of Australia's people, and it should be our first desire to do everything to protect those homes. . Their chief protection is the ballot-paper, which can be used at election time, and the secrecy of the ballot. I have no quarrel with the wealthy class; but ve need not worry about them. We may be sure that they will always be represented. But is any one prepared to say that this is not an attempt on the part of the Government, obviously for party 'purposes, to reduce the number of persons going to the poll? 
Hughes, after a taste of four months in office, was like a boy dragged screaming from the tart shop. I always thought that was a nasty thing for  Mr. Deakin  to say, but one can hardly wonder that a number of other people say it now. " I am the only man fit to govern Australia," says  Mr. Hughes.  " I am the only man fit to be Minister for Defence," says  Senator Pearce. 
You stuck to Forrest, and sacrificed Kingston. 
Labour movement in the unions so much to blame if they stand aghast to see their one-time idol, the leader of the wharf labourers, cheek by jowl with  Mr. Irvine;  to see  Mr. Hughes,  the lawyer, the idol of the old Labour' party, taking counselwith  Mr. Irvine,  the lawyer? 
The gentlemen now in charge of the Government have trimmed their sail to every wind thatblew. 
He was referring to the' Cook Government. That was when  Senator Lynch  used to utter fierce denunciations from his old seat against  Mr. Cook, Sir John  Forrest,  Mr. Watt, Sir William  Irvine, and the rest. He also said - 
If they had not the continual benediction of the press of this country they would never be where they are. Except for the press, there would not be sufficient of them to bury the corpse of their party. 
That is what the honorable senator thought of them only a few months ago. 
This Government and their supporters are mere spots on the democratic sun. 

 Mr. Webster, another Minister, also had something to say on that subject. 
But you did it in two or. three weeks. 
You have absolutely set yourself out to get  Mr. Hughes'  head. 
No. 
A few months ago you would have licked his boots. 
He is a giant though; you must admit that. 
I feel that the present position of Australia calls for the most serious consideration on the part of every man who takes a share in the government of this country. It ought also to deserve the most serious attention from the whole of the people of this continent. We are faced with a position of very extreme danger and difficulty. The fate of Australia is trembling in the balance. Our very existence as a free community is in hourly danger, and even if we survive this trouble those who live in this Commonwealth during the next twenty or thirty years will be practically slaves owing to the heavy debt which will have been piled up and upon which huge sums of interest will have to be paid. They will have to work like serfs to pay it off. I do not charge any political party particularly with being the cause of this state of affairs. Every partyin this Parliament - and there are now three of them - is responsible. During last session I brought before the Senate a proposal for raising money which I believe was on the right lines of justice and finance. But how many supporters were to be found for that thoroughly democratic proposal ? There were only two. 
It was that instead of raising money by a voluntary loan, the Commonwealth should make a levy upon the wealth of the people. I put that idea forward because the money was required to defend this country, to defend property, to save the lives of our people, to preserve' their liberties, and to maintain their families intact. When money is raised for purposes of that kind anything in the nature of interest ought not to be paid. I go further and say that if money is required for the defence of a country voluntarism should have no part in it. Every man in the country ought to be called upon to contribute according to his capacity. Then no one would suffer unduly, and no one would profit unduly. That, I consider, to be a democratic sentiment. Those with no property would not be called upon to pay anything. It is a serious matter that those who may live in this country hereafter will have reason to curse every one of the political parties which exists at this time, seeing that not one party had the common sense to grasp the proper idea with regard to financing the war. We have been following the old Conservative idea which obtained in Great Britain, a country that has been ruled for centuries by the rich people, and in which the poor section of the community have had no voice whatever.- When we wanted to raise money for the war, we threw overboard every Labour ideal and fell back upon the time-honored and crude system which had been in vogue not only in Great Britain, but in every country in Europe for centuries. In a young country like Australia, and with a powerful Labour party in office, we had an opportunity to do otherwise, but I always felt that this opportunity would vanish before the Labour party had the courage to grasp it, and unfortunately that has happened. Now there is no prospect whatever of carrying out a proposal of this kind, because however we may look at it, it must be admitted that it is not" the Labour party that is in power today; it is the Conservative party. 
The honorable senator ought to know, because he is one of them. Whatever party may be in power, I consider it to be my duty' to place this matter before the Senate and the people of Australia. I say that we ought not to be called upon to pay a single farthing of interest for any money raised for the purpose of defence. We should abandon entirely the system of voluntarism in this connexion. There should be a levy made upon every man  from one end of the Commonwealth to the other, according to his capacity. For what purpose was the wealth census taken? Some people suggested that it was taken for the purpose of the conscription of life. I say that even if that were the purpose, it could be used equally well for the conscription of wealth. When I moved my amendment here I outlined a scheme which I believe is perfectly workable. 
Half way is better than none of the way.  Senator de  Largie was not prepared to go with me half the way. If I had proposed to go the whole way I do not know what he would have done or said. I say that my scheme is perfectly workable and intelligible, and it is the only fair scheme for the people of this country. Our debt in a very short time will . amount to nearly £200,000,000. The annual interest payment upon that sum will be within cooee of £10,000,000 a year. 
I am not troubling about the State debts just now. 
 I am dealing solelywith this debt of the Commonwealth, which will be' wholly unproductive. Even if we come out of the war successfully, all that we shall have to show for it will be our independent existence as a community. But the people of Australia will have to pay annually £10,000,000, and if the war goes on for another two or three years, heaven only knows how much our debt will be, and how much the annual interest payment we shall be called upon to make. This is a burden which ought not to be placed on the shoulders of the working people of Australia. We hear a great deal about the taxation of the rich, and no man believes more in the taxation of the rich than I do. . One of the fundamental planks of the Labour platform has been to alter the incidence of taxation, so that the burdens of government, which hitherto have been borne by the patient working class, shall be carried by those best able to bearthem. I make bold to say that a very large proportion of this annual interest payment to which I have referred, unless our taxation is fundamentally altered in its incidence, will be borne by the working people of the country. I have not the slightest doubt about that, because with all our wisdom, skill, and patriotism, we have not yet got within measure of a proper scientific, honest, and just system of taxation. I think that the loan money required ought to be raised by a levy. Let me give an example to show how the levy would . work. Suppose a man had property worth £1,000, and the levy is 5 , per cent., his payment would be £50. If a man had property worth £10,000, the levy upon him would be £500. If a man had £100,000 worth of property his contribution to the levy would be £5,000. If a man had property to the value of £1,000,000 the levy upon him would be £50,000. If I were worth £1,000,000 Ishould be very pleased, not merely to lend the Government £50,000 without interest, to be spent in the defence of my property, but to make them a gift of the £50,000. I would ask neither for principal nor interest, and I think I would be making a very good bargain. I mention this merely to show honorable senators howit would pay the wealthy people of Aus tralia to adopt the plan I have suggested. I honestly believe it is the only fair and just method of raising money for the defence of the country. 
I think that honorable senators should at least be serious when discussing a matter of so much importance. -The condition of the country at present is very much too difficult and serious for any ill-timed jesting. So much for raising money to carry on the war. I do not wish to dwell any longer upon that aspect. I want to say a few words with regard to raising money for current expenditure. Here, again, the Parliament of the Commonwealth is utterly at sea. Our system of raising revenue is wholly unscientific, and falls with crushing effect, not upon the rich people, who are in most cases merely the vehicle through which it is paid, but upon the great mass of the workers of the country. We raise nearly £4 per head per annum through the Customs, and I say that 90 per cent, of that amount is paid by the working people. Then, again, we have income taxation. Many politicians believe that income tax is paid by the people who have the incomes. But here again I think Iam well withinthe mark when I say that at least 75 per cent. of income taxation is passed on, just as Customs taxation is passed on, and ultimately falls upon the shoulders of the people who do the work of the country. That is not the policy of the Labour party or the ideal of the Labour movement with regard to taxation. Indeed, it is altogether opposed to any principles which the Labour party may have upon the subject. Yet while there is to be an increase in the Federal income tax, and whilst, in addition, we have an income tax levied by every one of the States, the first method for the raising of money for the purposeof government that ought to be adopted is almost wholly neglected by this Parliament. I refer to land values taxation. 
Honorable Senators.  -  Hear, hear ! 
I know that, in the case of'some honorable senators, that " Hear, hear" is ironical, but never mind- 
AsSenator Guthrie interjects, the day willcome. I do not intend to read the Senate a lecture  upon land values taxation, or upon the justice of the community taking to itself the values which it creates. The justice of this must be abundantly evident to every one. What surprises me is that, having had the Labour party in power, with a majority in one House of this Parliament, and with an overwhelming majority in the other House for several years, we have not gone in for a thorough and effective system of land values taxation*. I never could understand why the Labour party were so kind and so tender to the land monopolists. It was one of those mysterious circumstances which I never could get to the bottom of. I do not understand it yet. 
I hope the honorable senator will. If he does, he will do something which I confess my utter inability to do. Having the thing within' our grasp, having the power in both Houses,, having the country behind us, and having the ball at our feet, that we should lose the opportunity is something which I can never under-, stand. Now, unfortunately, the opportunity is gone - I will not .say for ever, but at least for some considerable time. There never was a time in the history of Australia when the need for dealing with this question was greater, or even so great, as it is at the present time. We hear a great deal about providing for our returned soldiers. We can read day after day in the newspapers about schemes proposed for settling them upon the land. Money is being raised for the purpose here, there, and everywhere. Various State Governments are in the market to buy land on which to settle the men who are now shedding their blood in defence of their country. I say that nothing we can do for those men will be enough. We ought, and I hope we will, do the best we can for them. But unless we destroy land monopoly, what is going to happen? How many of these men are we going to settle comfortably on the lands of this country? We know perfectly well that the very best lands in every State, and in every portion of every State, are still in the hands of the monopolists. I read a proposal the other day to give returned soldiers farms worth £4,000, and another to give them farms worth £2,500. The thing is ridiculous. I know people in Queensland liv ing within easy distance of myself who are making a -comfortable living upon £500 worth of land. I say that any man who has £4,000 worth of land is a fool if he does any work. He could let his land *to some one else at 5 per cent, per annum, and draw £200 a year for doing nothing. The idea of settling a returned soldier upon £4,000 worth of land seems to me to be so utterly ridiculous as not to be worth a moment's consideration. One fact I wish "to dwell upon in this connexion is that with such a huge demand for land as there must be, if any large proportion of bur returned soldiers decide to adopt this method of making a living, the price of land must inevitably go up. 
A very large proportion of them will come back. With such a huge demand for land, its price will inevitably go up,' and will become so extravagant that country life will be even less attractive than it is at the present moment. But not only have we the returned soldiers to consider- we have the people of this country. We have the future of this continent to take into account. Let us look at the position. I say that there is an altogether disproportionate number of people in Australia living in our cities. We hear a good deal about the high cost of living, and of how it is continually rising. But while we have the number of persons growing food1 steadily decreasing," with the number of persons who are consuming it just as steadily increasing, it is as inevitable that the COSt of living should rise, as it is that the sun will rise to-morrow. If the people want cheaper food the lands of Australia must be thrown open to  them,  and inducements must be offered to many who now live in our cities to go into the bush and make a living there. Inducements must be held out to the bush-born population of this continent to remain in the bush. Unfortunately, owing to landmonopoly, thousands of our bushmen and  bushwomen  are driven into the city every year. There is a continual drift' from the country into the towns. 
That is true, and the reason they cannot get a good living in the country is largely because  the price of land is so high that unless a man is a small capitalist he cannot get a holding. If he rents a place his rent will_ be so extortionate as to prevent him making a decent living out of it. Last year I gave one example of this which might be multiplied by hundreds even in Victoria. I told the Senate of a case in which a man paid  £430  a year to his landlord for the use of  140  acres. There were two parties to the bargain - the landlord who provided nothing but the land, and the tenant. The landlord received an income of more than  £400  a year from the farm, whilst the individual who worked it. and owned the cattle upon it, received about  £80  from it. Such cases might be multiplied many times over even iu Victoria. In circumstances like these people will not remain upon the land. If the positions were reversed there would be some inducement for men to go upon the land and to stay there. But, unfortunately, this state of affairs is prevalent in every State of the Commonwealth. Until the evil is destroyed the people will never have a fair opportunity of making the best out of the land in which they live. The Labour party had an opportunity of dealing with this vital question. It is the most vital of all questions which affect the people of Australia. There is no other question which is of equal importance to them, and there -is no other quesMon which every political party burks so zealously. Whilst we have these evils in the country, we have all the evils of monopoly in our cities. We have heard of allotments that were sold in Melbourne fifty or sixty years ago for practically a song, and which to-day are worth  £100,000.  How has that value been created  1  Who created it ? The owners of "the properties or the people of Australia? The people of Australia, of course. But the owners get the added value, and the people have to pay. for it. Where such a state of things is possible the great mass of the people will never get their heads much above a slave condition, j do not care how high their nominal wages may be, their real wages will be very much lower than appears on the face of things, because their earnings will be filched from them by means of profits, interests, rents, &amp;c. Any political party which desires to do something effective for the workers cannot neglect this great question of land values taxation. This ought to be our first line of revenue. In stead of being a minor line it ought to be the principal line. To-day the unimproved value of land in Australia approaches  £600,000,000.  I know that a return recently issued sets it down at between  £400,000,000  and  £500,000,000.  But my experience is that when people value their own lands they nearly always undervalue them. Consequently, I place the unimproved value of land in this continent to-day at  £600,000,000.  At  5  per cent, that would mean  £30,000,000  per annum, which is now finding its way into the pockets of the private owners of land, and which ought to go into the public Treasuries of the various States. There has been  a good  deal of plain speaking here to-night, and I think that the time has arrived when there should be more of it. The time has come when the land tax exemptions laid down by the Federal and State Labour parties should be entirely swept away. Either the communitycreated value belongs to the people of this country or it does not. If the community created that value, the community ought to get it, irrespective of whether a man  owns  £100  worth of land or  £1,000,000  worth. Of course, I am bound by my platform to vote on this question in a particular way, and I am now speaking more from a propagandist stand-point than from any other. Good government in this country demands that there should be no exemptions from land tax. I trust that those parsons who believe in the principle of land values taxation will see the necessity for sweeping them away. Land monopoly, as I have said, is one of the greatest evils which can afflict any community. Not only do the values which are created by -the community pass into the pockets of private individuals, but land which is held out of use for speculative purposes is indirectly a tax on the community. 
We want to get. at all land - at the land' which is used, and the land which is not used. Unless, a man's faith carries him the whole way in connexion with this matter, it is of very little value to- the people of thiscountry. The present Government aregoing to be a little more lenient in regard, to income taxation than were the late Government. I am not very sure that they are not right, for the reason that an. income tax is a tax upon industry and.  enterprise. My theorywith regard to taxation, is that we ought to get all the community-created value first. If that is not sufficient, we should then have recourse to other methods of taxation. But with us the position is reversed. We get the bulk of our taxes from the Customs House, from income taxation, which is all passed on to the multitude, and various other indirect systems. Landvalues taxation can never be passed on to the multitude. That is the one fundamental difference between it and every other kind of taxation. _ Customs taxation is passedon, income taxation is passed on- 
-Seventy-five per cent. of the income tax will be passed on ; I have not the slightest doubt about that. 
Unimproved land values taxation, if it was imposed in such a way as to be effective, would affect the prices of commodities, but not in the way which the honorable senator seems to expect. It would affect commodities in this way: that many of them would be very much cheaper and more accessible than they are now. What is making living so dear ? I have dealt, or attempted to deal, with this aspect of the question already, but for the benefit of the honorable senator I will repeat what I said. 
I hope that the honorable senator does not propose to transgress the Standing Orders by repeating what he has already said. 
SenatorO'Keefe. - Is not your objection that the business man puts up his prices too much and makes his profits "too large ? 
You may pursue that policy if you please, but it can end only in social and political perdition; nothing short of it. It will absolutely ruin this country if a policy of this kind is continued very much longer. I know that this statement will not be popular. I know that many men who belong to the Labour movement will say that I ought to be garrotted, but I am convinced that what I say is true. Things have come to this pass now, that I believe it is the bounden duty of every man to say exactly what he thinks. The conclusion I have come to is that there are too many people in our cities, and too few people in the country, that there are great empty spaces calling out for habitation and occupation. 
Debate (on motion by SenatorRussell) adjourned. 
 In moving 
That  the  Senate do now adjourn, 
I have to furnish the following information regarding the question of the sale of the Australian wool clip to the Imperial authorities which  Senator Millen  asked should be supplied : - 
With - reference to your memorandum  of  the 30th November, relative to certain representations made in the Senate on the 29th idem by  Senator Millen  on the subject of  the wool clip, 1 am directed by the Prime Minister to forward the following information for communication to-the Minister for Defence: - 
To deal with all matters in regard to sale of the 1916-17 wool clip to the Imperial Government, a Central Wool Committee was elected by a Conference representative of all sections of the Commonwealth wool industry. 
The Central Wool Committee comprises eight members, two of whom are  wool-growers,  three representative  of  selling  firms,  the directors of which in each case are mainly  wool-growers, and an  independent chairman, who has been a wool-grower. 
The buying, manufacturing, and scouring interests are represented by one member each. 
.- Will the Leader of the Government consider the desirableness of taking as the first business of the Senate to-morrow the election of a member to fill the vacancy on the Standing Committee onPublic Works? It would meet the convenience of practically all the members of the Senate if that were done. I promise the Minister, as far as I can promise it, that there will be no unnecessary delay in taking the vote. Probably it would be as satisfactory to the Ministry as to the rest of the Senate to have the matter settled. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Has the Minister for Defence received any reply yet to the allegations brought forward by me the other daywith regard to the hospital treatment of Australian soldiers at Perham Downs, in England ? 
On Thursday last the honorable senator asked the following questions: - 
Is the Minister for Defence aware that the Convalescent Hospital at Perham Downs, on 
Salisbury Plain, in England, where Australian soldiers are sent from France, has been described by an Australian soldier as -  '- one of the dirtiest and filthiest holes that convalescent men could be sent to' ... all grouped together in huts, or, to be more explicit, hovels.; and there are some in tents which are not even rainproof. Eighty per cent, of the men were coughing and spitting all over the ground. Diseases will kill more men than the Germans." 
Will the Minister cause full inquiries to be made by cablegram respecting this complaint? 
A cablegram was sent to the Australian Imperial Force Head-quarters in London repeating the statement made by the Australian soldier, and the reply is as follows : - 
Surgeon-General N. R. Howse, V.C., C.B., Director of Medical Services, Australian Imperial Force, again inspected Perham Downs Camp to-day. He states that the representations made in Parliament referred to in your telegram are absolutely without any foundation. All the troops are housed in well ventilated, well warmed, dry huts. No Australian troops are under tents. The health of the troops is exceedingly good, with the exception of mild infectious diseases, ' mumps, and measles. 
Is the Minister for Defence aware that a clerk over sixty years of age was dismissed at the Victoria Barracks, Sydney, for refusing to enlist for home service? 
I am not aware of the allegation, but if the honorable senator will give me the name and particulars I shall have inquiries made.. 
Is the Leader of the Senate yet in a position to make a statement with reference to the proposed acquisition of the Commonwealth wool clip for the Imperial Government? 
On the motion to adjourn the Senate last night I made a statement giving the constitution of the Committee. 
No. 

 Later : 

Arising out of the question asked by  Senator Ready,  is the Leader of the Senate aware that to-day a statement was made in the 
House of Representatives by the Leader of the Government announcing that the price at which- the wool clip had been sold was ls. 3½d. per lb. I would like to know whether the honorablesenator had such information in his possession last night,or whether he gave such information in his previous statement? 
I was not aware that a statement to that effect had been made in the House of Representatives. It was not included in the statement which I read last night, and I was not aware of that fact. 
Will the Minister say why the Senate has not received the informationin the same way as the other House ? 
The answers are - 
The matter will not be lost sight of when the disposal of the plant is being considered at the completion of the Kalgoorlie-Port Augusta Railway. 
Correspondence with the State Government is in progress. 
asked the Minis ter representing the Minister for the Navy,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister state when the cruiser  Brisbane  will pay her promised visit "to Queensland ports? 
-It is regretted that . owing to war requirements the promised visit must be postponed indefinitely-. 
asked the Minis ter for Defence,  upon notice - 
Do hard and fast rules, as to weight, govern the despatch of parcels of comforts to Australian soldiers in France? 
If the 'maximum weight allowed be eleven pounds (11 lbs.) would a disputed overplus of one or two ounces in weight prevent a parcel being sent? 
The answers are - 
There is a limit of weight for parcels sent through the post-office, viz., 11 lbs., which has been fixed by International arrangement. 
I am unable to say what would be done in individual cases of dispute of weight, but I should think that the benefit of ' the doubt would be given to the sender. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy,  upon notice- 
Since the Naval Department took over the wireless telegraph system, have any steps been taken to make  a complete wireless chain around Australia? 
Full information will be f urnished to the honorable senator privately. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy,  upon notice - 
Will he cause an order to be promulgated in terms similar to those employed by the British Board of Trade, to the effect that officers of the Australian Mercantile Marine must wear their uniforms when on shore? 
The conditions which render it desirable in Great Britain that officers of the Mercantile Marine should wear uniform when on shore do not obtain in Australia, and it is thought that it would be preferable as regards the Australian Mercantile Marine if this matter were settled by the officers themselves. 
In view of the fact that the Government have supplied the major portion of the information sought in notice of motion No. 2, private business, and are prepared to furnish the balance of that information as soon as possible, I withdraw it from the business-paper. 
.- I take it, sir, that the ballot will be conducted by the usual method. 
A ballot will not take place unless it is demanded. 
So far, there is only one candidate for the position, and there cannot be a ballot unless more than one candidate is nominated. 
That the word "Newland" be left out, with a view to insert the word " Needham " in lieu thereof. 
A ballot will be taken. Ballot-papers will be supplied to honorable senators, who can indicate their preference by putting a cross before the name of the honorable senator whom they wish to support. Of course, there are only two gentlemen eligible for the position, as only two have been nominated. 
A ballot having been taken, the  President  announced the result as follows: - 

 Senator Needham, 18 votes;  Senator Newland,  16 votes. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Question, as amended, resolved in the affirmative. 
Under ordinary circumstances I would not have taken part in this debate, but I rise to do so as the result, practically, of an appeal by certain honorable senators that I should explain my position. If I may judge from the speeches that have been delivered, particularly by those honorable senators with whom I have been associated for so long, their criticism of me was of a mild character, for I believe I have always been on the best of terms with honorable senators, and I know the present situation is the result of action by a certain section of the Labour party, which arrogated to itself powers which it was never intended should be- exercised and which cannot be defended under any law of justice or equity. My present position is not the result of my own deliberate choice-=-though I am proud to be associated with those members who are now supporting the present Government - but it is - the result of tyranny, not exercised by the Labour party as a whole, but by a section of our party, which, I believe, exceeded its constitutional powers. . As a politician I have been put upon a trial as severe as that ever experienced by any man in public life. Therefore, in fairness to myself, as well as to those who may be trembling in the fear that what has happened to me might happen to them, I desire to explain all the circumstances leading up to the present position, and also* to express the hope that power which in my case I believe was wrongly exercised, may not be so used in the future. I desire to preface my remarks by saying that any ideas I ever held I still hold; that any political principles I subscribed to I still maintain. To me the Labour movement is based upon the organization of the great masses of the people, and it was my hope that this power for good, springing as ' it does from the masses- of the people, should long continue. During the whole of my parliamentary career, extending now to just on ten years, I have never shirked my duty, and .have never broken a rule of the party to which I belong, or given a vote in contravention of any rule or plank of the party platform. Why, then, do I find myself today excluded from that 'party? I am in my present position because members of the local executive exceeded their powers in regard to myself. When I joined the Labour party, like others, I did so because I believed it was the most democratic party in Australia at that time, and because I was prepared to uphold its principles. Nobody who knows my record in this State can say that during my association with the party, any man gave his services more freely or worked harder than I did to bring about success. And as a result of that I received the confidence of the party on four occasions. I came into this Parliament as one of its youngest members, and on two occasions was so honoured with the confidence of my party as .to be elected to the Ministry, on the second occasion, with my colleague, almost unanimously. 
No; but what was the position^ As a Government, representative of the Labour party, we were not. dependent upon one individual, but received our appointments at the hands of the party ; and so long as we carried out its principles, there was no power, under our' party constitution, to interfere with members of the Ministry. I was elected to the Ministry to fight for the policy that we all believed in, and I did so upon all occasions. 
Messrs. Archibald and Spence were not thrown out of the Ministry. The Ministry of which they were members resigned, and Messrs. Archibald and Spence failed to secure their election, and failed largely as the result of activity and canvassing on the steps of Parliament House by members of the i executive who to-day have downed me. Whether they were justified or not on that occasion matters not now, but I was asked a question and I answered it. Coming back to the time of my inclusion in the Labour Government, I want to' remind the Senate that I was elected .by the party to fight for certain principles, and I did so in conformity with the views of the majority of our party. Then in a panic, probably, brought about by the war conditions, I . was asked to make a sacrifice, not because , my views were wrong, but because the. views held by some one else were considered wrong. I did not question the honesty of those who differed from me. I believe they were honest men, and prepared to support the country and the 
Empire. I thought that they were mistaken in their views, but was that a reason why I should at once set about a mad hunt after the scalps of those who differed from me upon the most important question that could come up for consideration, and involving the greatest responsibility in its decision ? Who was it that determined that I was wrong ? Was it the Federal Labour party ? It was not. Was it any organization whose decision we were supposed to accept? Not at all. Not a single member of our Federal party ever asked me to withdraw from the Ministry. Many of them made a special request that we should not break up the Ministry, but should retain our seats in it. 
No; they would meet the fate which , I met with at the hands of the Labour executive if their names were mentioned. I do not wish to implicate anybody else. 
SenatorRUSSELL- No; I do not intend to do so. I believe that, I speak correctly when I say that I had the sympathy of 99 per cent, of the members of the Labour party. I was not told by the electors who sent me to this Parliament to withdraw from the Ministry. I was not told to do so by the Labour members of this Parliament with whom I was associated in Caucus, but I was told by a majority of a divided local executive to get out of the Ministry. Let me make the position perfectly clear. This cannot be said to be a Democracy if this sort of thing may prevail. I received the following letter: - 
Trades Hall, 
Melbourne, 19th September, 1916. 

 Senator E. J. Russell, 
Federal Parliament House, Melbourne. 
Dear Comrade, 
I am instructed to inform you that the resolution carried at the meeting of the Central Executive on the 12th inst., calling on the Victorian Ministers to resign forthwith from the Hughes Government, has been re-affirmed by a meeting of the executive held on Friday, 15th inst. 
Fraternally yours, 
Arch. Stewart,  Secretary. 
From the Political Labour Council of Victoria. This is the resolution which was carried- 
That, in the opinion of the Central Executive, the two Victorian members of the Federal Labour Ministry, Messrs. Tudor and Russell, should resign forthwith from the Hughes Ministry.' 
The date of the carrying of that resolution was 12th September, 1916. In commonfairness to myself, I ask any member of' the Labour party to tell me of any crime of which I had beenguilty up to 12th September, 1916. I ask any member of the party to point to any plank of the Labour platform that I had broken. I ask whether any young man with ordinary ambitions, and possessing the confidence of the Federal Labour party, and of the mass of the party outside Parliament, should be subjected to the power of a section of a local central executive, and told to go out from a Ministry that was controlled only by the party in Parliament. Although I had the support of nearly sixty Labour members in the Federal Parliament, who desired that .  I should remain a member of the Ministry, ten outsiders who have never faced the people at all, said to me, " Come out of the Ministry, or weshall ruin you socially, financially,' and politically." Is that Democracy in a free country? 
No, I have not.   Senator. Millen.  - Honorable senators have made their accusations, and they should give the Assistant Minister a chance to reply to them. 
I said to these men, " I am a Democrat." As I indicated earlier, I joined the Labour party because I believed in majority rule. I said further, " Supposing any question arises to-morrow upon which you have a majority of Labour members of both Houses of the Parliament, and in connexion with which they may carry any law upon which they are agreed, and suddenly a local executive of twelve or thirteen members takes the question into consideration, and seven of them decide thatthe Labour members shall vote in the opposite direction to that upon which they have agreed, are these seven men to dominate the Parliament? I am not speaking now of the Labour platform, which members of the party having signed are in  honour bound to vote for, whatever a local executive may do ; but I am speaking of a matter not considered in detail by the Labour party, and outside the written contract which Labour members have made with the party. What follows if seven members of an outside executive may dominate this Parliament in a matter of that kind'? In fairness to the Labour movement and to the great majority of Labour supporters outside, I want to saythat that kind of thing was never intended by supporters of the movement, and should never have been brought into operation. My quarrel is not with the Labour movement or its principles, and my contention is that the Government -of this country must be controlled within the walls of Parliament by the elected members of the Parliament, and not by an irresponsible few outside, no matter how honest and good, or how enthusiastic they may be. 
SenatorRUSSELL. - It is of no use to consider anything as private now since. Cabinet secrets have been blown out. The views which the Labour party hold, I hold. I was honest in the expression of those views, but because certain people developed a hatred against some other man, they did not care whom they ruined or whom they pulled out of the Ministry. I asked this one question of them : Whether they were prepared to take the responsibility of breaking the party down and allowing our political opponents to come into power ? When they said " Yes," and that we could put the responsibility on the other party, I said that I was sent here to vote for my own principles and not to put responsibility upon others. Did the local executive suspect me of being a conscriptionist ? None of my colleagues did. I asked  Mr. Hughes  to relieve me, because I felt that I should not continue to sit behind a leader whom I could not enthusiastically champion in a particular matter.  Mr. Hughes  begged me to remain with other colleagues of mine in the Ministry. I was going to refer to  Senator Gardiner  as " My dear old colleague," but, perhaps, that would be too familiar. Still I may say that on most questions  Senator Gardiner  and I never had a difference. Yet to-day, after working for twenty solid years in the Labour move ment, in season and out of season, I am branded by the men for 'whom I' have worked, and thrown upon the scrap heap, whilst my colleague  Senator Gardiner,  to whom I wish all good luck, and for whom I have every respect, is made leader of the party in the Senate. What a responsibility these men who have dealt with me have taken upon themselves. They have done what they could to ruin me and my family, my name has been blackened, and I am called a traitor at the. corners of the streets at the dictation of a few. If that is Democracy, it , is about time that we had some other system in operation here. Asearly as 16th June, 1916, the Political Labour Council wrote to' me asking my views on conscription. I will not read their letter, but I will read my reply- 

 Mr. Arch. Stewart, 
Secretary PX.C. of Victoria, 
Trades Hall, Melbourne. 
Dear  Sir, 
With reference to yours of 13th June, 1916, forwarding a copy of the anti-conscription resolution carried by annual conference, permit me to say that I have always been, and am still, a supporter of the voluntary system for the purpose of raising soldiers to participate in the present European war. 
Considering the limited population of Australia, I am certainly of opinion that this country's achievement in raising an army of 300,000 has amply proved the success of the voluntary system as carried out by the present Government. 
Yours faithfully, 
J. Russell. 
Those were the views which. I held then. I gave public expression to my views to the Melbourne  Herald.  I was guided by one principle alone, and that was tohold and keep together the party which I have worked for and loved. When I stood as a candidate for . Parliament, I signed a printed programme, but the question which has broken the Labour party to-day is not mentioned in that programme. It was the greatest question which this country had ever faced. There was a heavy responsibility resting on every individual elector, and every politician, to win this war, for the war must be won. Being conscious of that fact, and realizing that the supreme question of life and death was in the hands of every man and every member of Parliament, who could dream that anybody could be dishonest in connexion with such a matter? Fancy a man with the record of W. G. 'Spence suddenly going wrong and being dishonest after bis years and years of service I Paney a man like our  President,  or a man like our friend,  Senator Pearce,  who I always thought was a good military man, though sometimes' he went too far in that direction for me, going wrong ! Who would question the solidarity of these men, who not only led us well year after year, but led us honestly till we were prepared to worship them and do anything for them. It was represented in this country that I was guided by no other principle than that of getting place and pay. Rather than run any nsk, and. to get our Government safely over the difficulty, I wrote to the Political Labour Council executive, and offered to get out at the end of the month when the referendum was over. Was I guided then by the consideration of one month's pay ? No man who has been some years in Parliament has made more sacrifices in- regard to place and pay than I have done. On two occasions I have refused promotion to the Ministry. On one occasion I was offered by the Wheat Board, represented by Messrs. Hagelthorn, Good, and Graham, an opportunity to go to London, but I would not look at the offer because I thought that people would say, " That was the price." Yet these persons permitted it to be represented that the only object I had in life was the acquisition of money, when everything I have done in my political career has been on the side of sacrifice. 
Yes. I am not blaming the members of the Labour party inside Parliament. I wish to relate a rather unique event. During the two years I have been in the Ministry, with the full confidence of most members of Parliament, I have at times carried a good deal of responsibility in some of the Departments. I defy any one to say- that in either House of this Parliament there has been one word of hostile criticism of two years' administration of principles in which I believe. I remember that when  Mr. Hughes  returned from England, in the presence of seventy or eighty members of the Labour party, he went out of his way to congratulate me on my successful administration of difficult Departments. What did the members of the party say then? They said, " Hear, hear !" with one voice all round the Caucus room, but at the Caucus meeting where  the members were  after the scalp of  Mr. Hughes,  member after member got up and said that he was going to stand by .the executive's decision. I was included in that decision. Why? As a conscriptionist t No, as one who had disobeyed the few. Then I went along and made another sacrifice. I resigned from the Government. I took what I believe was the only course open to me. I had a quarrel with   Mr. Hughes.  The moment I left the' Government I stood in this Parliament without a party. That is a nice position for a man to be in if he is honestly battling for what he believes to be right. 
I had plenty of  friends, but no political party. Were these men out simply after conscriptionists? If so, listen to the resolution which they carried after the trouble about the regulations - 
The P.L.C. executive pronounced emphatically against " reconciliation." It decided that the members of the Federal and State Parliamentary party be informed, that there must be no reconciliation with, members who have been expelled from the movement, or who supported conscription during the recent referendum. When the executive were kind enough to expel me from the Labour movement, I had given my word to my leader that I would stop in the Government till the 28th October to see the referendum through. Under the party system of government, I could not break my word nor speak publicly against my leader. I knew the penalty. All the risks were on my side, but I was doing that for the sake of the party. The executive misrepresented me through their official journals, both the  Labour Call  and the  W Worker  Through the press I asked them to give to the public the reasons why I had been dismissed. They maintained a perfect silence all the time. More than that, there was a personal bitterness at the back of their action. That was the treatment I received from the party I had served so well. I have no hesitation in saying that in fighting for what I thought was a principle I gave  Mr. Hughes  about as hard a knock as a man had had for a long time. Did he immediately proceed to look for my scalp, as the other persons had done?. Not,at all. There was the act of a Democrat. The decision of the people had been given;  Mr. Hughes  had decided to abide by the decision and let the national question drop. There was Democracy. There, was gratitude for services rendered in the past, which did not exist amongst the few who were panic stricken and had no other desire than to down those who .differed from them. I do not wish to continue much longer this statement of the experience I have had of the Labour movement. I speak as a man who has been thrown out of the movement. I do not want to say that I made the sacrifice of coming out of it. I was pushed out,' purely and simply. I have no complaint to offer against the great masses of the people outside, who made wonderful sacrifices to build up the movement to the position which it occupies to-day. I have received nothing but kindness from members of the Labour party inside and outside of Parliament. I have never had a personal quarrel with any member of the executive outside. I believe that the people can help in drafting political platforms outside. I believe that they can help to improve their material conditions by. organization outside, but you cannot help bv giving an outside executive ' the control which the whole people should have in their Parliament elected on a democratic franchise. * I look forward with a good deal of hope to the reconciliation of ideas. It may npt be that I shall be permitted to participate in it, but I do hope that, if not on the exact lines existing now, Australia will always be ruled by a great democratic party with ideals for the improvement of the national conditions of the people. That is my hope. But to-morrow, if I were offered a position in a Ministry controlled by an outside executive, not for £10,000 would I take the position, because I believe that it is against Democracy, and against the institutions which the national intelligence has established in this country. For that reason I believe the idea to be wrong. The experience I have been through has not been a pleasant one. It has been a hard time for me. But what I did I did out of loyalty  to my country and. to my colleagues. I have no complaint to offer against them except that I think that inasmuch as nearly every member of the party did express his sympathy with me for the action which the Political Labour Council execu- tive had taken. My honorable friends might have lifted 'a hand collectively to say that this sort of business should not be permitted. 
I had intended to speak in the debate on the policy of the Government, but as it is probable that there may be no opportunity to do so, I desire to make a few remarks on the present occasion. Possibly I am one of the members of the Labour executive who have come under such a castigation from the Assistant Minister, and, therefore, I desire to say a word in defence of the action taken by that executive, and by the people outside. 
Who are represented by that executive .in their official way?  Senator Russell  and every Labour member here knows very well the machinery which governs and guides the Labour movement. We are all aware, of course, that the Labour movement did not anticipate, and could not foresee, the great calamity which has fallen on this country and on the Empire. When it occurred, surely those in authority would not have been fit to occupy their positions had they not "been prepared to pronounce in the. way they did. The members of the executive of the Labour movement in Victoria, as in every other State, are elected by a conference*. The executive is not a little irresponsible body, but a body elected by a conference which, in its turn, is elected by the people of the whole State. The Victorian conference com-  prises about 300 delegates, who come from every part of the State, and represent all the people of the State, and the executive is elected from, the conference. What is the use of a man getting up here, and saying, " Here is a little irresponsible body of people who have no responsibility," when all the time the whole of the responsibility of conducting the work of the Labour movement rests on their shoulders ? 
 Was the executive instructed by the people outside to kill all conscriptionists ? 
They have got other instructions from the people who elected them. 
Will the honorable senator give the people an opportunity of judging between us? 
That this House affirms the readiness of Australia' to give all requisite aid to the Mother Country in order to bring the present war to an end - the motion having reference to the Boer War,  Senator Pearce  said - 
We have to consider at the present time whether Australia is justified in offering further aid in the prosecution of this war or of any -other war which Great Britain likes to enter upon. I say that we have a duty to perform to Australia. The figures which the Vice-President, of the Executive Council gave us show that, after the present proposed contingents have left, Australia will have contributed 4 out of every 1,000 of her population, while the Mother Country has only contributed 6 out of every 1,000 of her population. That brings this thought to my mind : Seeing that we are the junior partner, and a very junior partner, in this concern, are we not taking upon ourselves more of the responsibilities of the Empire than we should be called upon to bear? 
Are we. not neglecting our duty to ourselves in taking upon ourselves so much of the responsibilities of Empire? Have we so many of the young and best of our population that we can spare them for the purposes of war? Can we spare 1,000 men, who, in the next few weeks, will be leaving for the war? A leading paper in this State is at the present time publishing urgent appeals regarding the scarcity of labour in our country districts. We are being told that our farming industry is paralyzed because of the scarcity of labour; that labour is becoming so dear that men are actually demanding 7s. per day; and yet the Commonwealth Government say that men are so plentiful in Australia that we can afford to send them by thousands to the Transvaal to be shot or to be rendered incapable of following peaceful vocations. One State Government ten's us that they cannot find sufficient men to take the place of the 10,000 kanakas we shall be deporting from the Commonwealth; and yet that Government hurried to send a contingent at the behest of  Mr. Henniker  Heaton. That Government freely raises 500 men to send to South Africa, and, at the same time, they freely receive forty or fifty Japanese to replace them. It seems to me that we are neglecting the interests of Australia, though we may be doing our duty as a part of the British Empire. We have also to remember that any aid we can send for the prosecution of this war is but very slight for the accomplishment of the end Great Britain has in view. The few thousand men we can send will have very little effect in bringing the war to an end any more quickly. 
They are very good for the purpose, but I say they are more valuable to us in developing our own country than they will be in fighting the Boers. I make, bold to say, also, that they would be more valuable to the Empire in developing this country than they will be in shooting the Boers of the Transvaal. We have to remember that the development of the Empire has not been brought about altogether by means of war, or by means of aggression. It has been brought about largely by means of industrial aggression 'and industrial war." If we weaken our population, and weaken the number of wealth producers of the country, we weaken our powers, as a portion of the Empire, of industrial aggression and development. We have to be careful that we are not sacrificing too many of our wealth producers to the god of war. We have a duty to Australia, and that duty impels me to say that the time has come when we should say " No more " to the demands of the Colonial Office for further contingents. I, for one, if asked  for a vote upon this question, will say that there should be no further contingent sent to this war. We have done our duty and have done all that could have been expected of us as a part of the Empire and as Britishers. We have now our duty to' Australia, and it is our first duty. It is our duty to see that those who are the wealth, the bone, and sinew of the country, and to whom we must look for the future of the country, shall be retained here in health, and in useful employment. This is the spirit in which I enter my protest against the second part of the motion. 
That was a very fine speech', and well put.  Senator Pearce  at that time was a great Australian patriot. He was putting Australia before every other part of the British Empire. 
Labour organizations which had made ,it possible for him to be Prime Minister, but to every other voice' whispering around Australia. The voices which eventually "lobbed" him on their side of the fence were the most Tory that .this country has ever been cursed with. I have here a cutting from a newspaper which in a few words speaks volumes with regard to the conduct' of  Mr. Hughes.  At the Town Hall meeting he told the people how he saw the light, and was going to follow it, and wound up by saying, " If they can arrest my progress, let them do it ; but they will not." That was a reference to the people opposed to conscription; and showed that  Mr. Hughes  listened, not to the voice of the Labour movement, but to the voice of those who have always been opposed to its aspirations. During the fight much vitriol was poured upon the devoted heads of the Labour people opposed to conscription.  Mr. Hughes  and his supporters went around Australia saying that the opponents of conscription were pro-Germans, shirkers, wasters, rotters, and were receiving German money. If somebody had said to  Senator Pearce,  when he expressed the sentiments that I have quoted, "You are a proBoer, a rotter, a shirker, a waster, and disloyal," what would he have thought? 
It was very freely said. 
Prom the Opposition side, too. 
To Members of A.I.F. 
As General Officer Commanding the Australian Imperial Force, it is not. for me to interfere in any political matters or to influence the voting of our men on the coming Referendum. 
I know well that, in any case, all will vote as seems to them necessary in the bestinterests of Australia and the Great Empire to which we belong, whose freedom has been, and still is, in danger of being turned into slavery by Germany. I feel, however, that 1 can inform you all of how really essential it is that we should get all the men available to keep these magnificent Australian Forces, which are now in the field, and whose fame is renowned throughout the Empire, up to their strength. 
Every single man would, I am sure, bitterly resent and regret it if we had to reduce a single battalion, battery, or company, every one of which has now made history and established a tradition which we all hope will last as long as the British flag flies over our worldwide Empire. But it is, I think, probable that all ranks do not know as well as I do the absolute necessity of keeping our reinforcements right up to strength, and the present system is not doing this. I feel sure all know the great feelings of regard and pride which I have for every man of this force who has, up to now, come forward of his own free will, and after great self sacrifice. 
Many brave men have given their lives for the sake of our Empire and the freedom of the world- lives which will have been uselessly sacrificed if we relax our efforts in any way until we have the Germans right down to their knees. Remember, too, boys, that the word freedom' does not only mean freedom for ourselves, but, what is far more important, freedom for our children and our children's children. For them I know no sacrifice can be too great. 
In the magnificent manifesto which our Prime . Minister,  Mr. Hughes,  has sent us, he has. fully shown what exemptions there will be when universal service is adopted. It will be seen from this that members of families, some of whom have already come forward, will be fully safeguarded, and no men need fear that there is danger of, we . will say, the brother who has been left behind to look after the affairs of the family, being ordered to come out. The shirker, however, will be caught, and made to do his share instead of staying, at home as- he has done up to now, not only evading his duties, but getting into soft jobs, which we want to see kept for our boys here when they . return, or for the representatives of their families who have beenleft in Australia. 
I have nothing more to say, boys, except to point out to you as strongly as I can that the necessity does exist, and I hope that after these two years, during which we have been soldiering together, we know each other well enough to realize that I would not say this without good reason. Having said it, I leave it to you to act according to your conscience for the good of our kin, and country, the honour of our people, and the safety of our wives and children. 
R. BIRDWOOD, 
Lieut.-General, G.O.C., A.I.F. 
Had it been possible for the Labour organizations of Australia to get in touch with the Australian soldiers at the front, in all probability some of the literature distributed so widely and effectively here would have found its way to them, and have influenced a great many of their votes, but, although we were promised a fair go in the fight, our soldiers, were denied the opportunity of reading our side of the case. That opportunity was denied to them, although General Birdwood was allowed to distribute the circular to which I have already referred, and the Prime Minister of Australia also took advantage of an opportunity to address our soldiers with the object of persuading them to vote in favour of the conscription of their brothers or relatives and friends in Australia. The following is a copy of the manifesto which  Mr. Hughes  addressed to our soldiers at the front : - 
- I do not know how the soldiers voted, but probably the honorable senator is in the confidence of the Government. In all probability the Leader of the Government now has to go around, cap in hand, to the caucus of the Liberal party divulging to them things which, under other circumstances, he would not dream of telling. The Government took very great care to exercise the strongest possible influence upon the soldiers to .persuade them to vote in favour of conscription, but they absolutely refused to allow the other side of the question being placed before our men at the front. The Labour Government of Queensland desired to communicate with the Queensland soldiers and' tell them what the Government of that State thought they ought to do in regard to the referendum. 
No; I mean the Labour .party of Queensland. The Queeusland Government sent ,a circular to the Agent-General with instructions that it should be submitted to the soldiers through  Mr. Philip  Snowden, but a week after the referendum vote had been taken they were informed that the cable had not been sent because the word " Snowden " could not be coded. No man will be gulled by such an excuse as that. If the name could not have been coded it is not such a bad one, anyhow, to send without being coded, and the Queensland Government had a right to expect that their message should be sent. If it had been, in all probability it would have had some influence on the Queensland soldiers at the front.  Senator Bakhap,  by interjection, has informed us that a majority of the soldiers voted in favour of the referendum. Well, that is information which the party to which I belong have been endeavouring to get from the Government, but up to the present without success. 'It has been said that the Imperial Government desired that the vote should not be disclosed, for what purpose I do not know, because it will not give the Germans one bit a better chance-r-they have none now we know - of winning the war if they know how our soldiers voted than if the information were kept from them.- The Government of this country are guilty of a distinct breach of confidence with the people of Australia over this matter. During the referendum campaign one of the strongest appeals by the conscriptionists took this form, " Are you going to desert your comrades in the trenches? Are you going to scab on them ?" 
It has been suggested that the  Moldavia,  the last boat due-to reach Australia before 28th October, the day of the referendum, was delayed a day of two in order that letters from our soldiers should not reach their destination before polling day. I am not making that charge myself, but I know the statement was' made and there may be something in it. The  Moldavia  mail, I believe, included hundreds of thousands of letters from pur soldiers to their friends and relatives in Australia ; to those people, including relatives and friends of our soldiers, whose chivalrous instincts had been aroused by the appeal made in the manner I ' have described ; and although the vessel arrived on the 28th October the mails were not distributed till the following week. We have had scores of instances of parents who after voting in favour of conscription, in the belief that they were doing the right thing, and following the course desired by their sons or relatives at the front, received letters by the  Moldavia  containing an appeal, " In God's name, don't vote for conscription; vote against it." These letters came from men who knew what conscription was in Great Britain and Prance. 
In Great Britain, according to letters received, there are scores of thousands of children whose mothers have .to get over the wash-tub because the fathers are at the front and are not getting sufficient pay to feed their wives and kiddies. That is the position in Great Britain, and that also is the position in every country where conscription obtains. That is the reason, too, why, the capitalistic press and institutions of 
Australia were so whole-heartedly in favour of this policy. They believed that if they could carry conscription and send 500,000 of Australia's manhood to the  front, whether they had in power the Hughes Government or any other Government, they would be able to repudiate the contract to the soldiers and cut their pay down to the ordinary "bob" a day of conscript armies. That is what they wanted, and that is why they fought for conscription.- - 
Yes.  Senator Bakhap  did not make any secret of the probable financial position under conkscription He stated it on the floor of this Senate and at meetings elsewhere, and in doing so he was voicing the opinion ' of the men and the organizations that are behind him.  Senator Bakhap  may have made the admission indiscreetly, but that is what. the daily papers of this country would have advocated! if the vote, in favour of conscription had been carried. I believe that the " No " vote would have been carried by many scores of thousands more had the  Moldavia's  mail reached Australia a week earlier than it did. "We who advocated no conscription have been threatened with single and double dissolutions and told that we would be dragged before the people very quickly. Personally, I have no more desire than have other honorable members of this Parliament to be defeated, but neither have I any desire to " craw-fish " away from any responsibility which I may have incurred by the action which I took in connexion with the referendum campaign. I fought against conscription, believing that in so doing I was doing the best I could for this country. I believe that still, 'and as time goes on I am only the more con-, firmed in the belief that Australians acted wisely when they turned down conscription. In speaking on the Defence Act in 1902 or 1903,  Mr. Hughes  said - 
The history of England has taught Englishmen that their only safety lies in the supremacy of the civil law. 
That is an eloquent little passage from a speech of the present leader in Australian politics, and the statement is just as true to-day as it was when  Mr. Hughes  uttered it. Yet this is the man who was prepared to put Australia under (military rule if he could. We had some evidence, of that only quite recently. The Senate refused to allow a regulation framed under the War Precautions Act by the Government; and what happened? A couple of. days later, so the newspapers allege,  Mr. Hughes  was interviewed on the subject. He was asked, " What about that regulation? What are you going to do about it, Billy?" and his reply was, " This Government will take all the necessary steps for the preservation of the safety of the country," indicating asclearly as he possibly could that as soon as- Parliament rises he will bring in another regulation, and in spite of the protest of the Senate he will bring into operation a military law which the representatives of the people in this Chamber have said that the people do not want. That is what we get under a military law, and that is the kind of thing we should get under conscription, only a hundredfold worse. That is the kind of thing which the present Government tried to impose upon the people of Australia. Is it any wonder that the "Labour people protested, knowing the evils that have arisen from conscription in every country which has adopted it.  Senator Lynch  has intimated in a speech or two he has made since the taking of the referendum that, so far as he is concerned, the fight is not yet over. The honorable senator is now 'in a responsible position, in which he handles the funds.,of the people of Australia. The present Treasurer has said that the policy of the Government is to pare down expenditure on public works to" the bone. What is the object of that policy? We had a financial statement from the exTreasurer,  Mr. Higgs,  only a few short weeks ago. There was then no panic in the minds of honorable members of the Government in regard to the condition of the finances of Australia. The then Government were not afraid that they would be unable to carry on the affairs of the country. They could finance the war quite easily according to the statement submitted by  Mr. Higgs.  Yet a few weeks later, when the Labour party has been split in twain, and a remnant still cling to the Government benches and hang there by the support of their lifelong political enemies, we get another financial statement in which we are told that expendi- ture upon public works is to be cut to the bone. 
In all probability they will stop that work, and all other public works. They are going to impose upon the people of Australia by starvation what they could not impose upon them as the result of an appeal to their votes. They will try to starve men into going to the front. They propose to stop all public works, and thus throw thousands of men out of employment. Their, troubles, so long as they can starve men into going to the front, even though the voice of the people has been given against them. 
I do believe it absolutely. I am very sincere in the expression of the belief that these are the tactics which the Government have in view. I may be doing them wrong, but they can prove 'that by keeping public works going, and by spending money to give those who are not fit to go to the front an opportunity to earn a livelihood. The Government would be taking a very much wiser course if they determined to utilize all the productive resources of Australia for the raising of' foodstuffs to help to feed the Mother Country.  Senator Millen,  in a very able speech made here a few days ago, reminded us that the people of Great Britain are on the verge of starvation. The honorable senator's remedy for that is to send more men to. the Mother Country to be fed. My remedy . for it is to send men who are here on to the land to produce the foodstuffs, which Australia can produce in great quantities, and then to send those foodstuffs to the Mother Country, when the people there will 'be in no danger of starvation. I believe that by the adoption of ""this course we should be doing more towards winning the war than by any method which has up to date been indicated by the Government. The Government have come forward with a new recruiting scheme, and in this connexion the Leader of the party to which I belong told them frankly what the position is. He has said that a Government so discredited, and kept in power by the rag- tag-and-bob-tail still left in this Chamber of Conservative and Liberal parties is not) in a position to make any appeal to the country. They are going to make a second appeal to the patriotism of the young Australians, and ask them to go to the front. We have been talking this thing over for the last twelve months. The daily newspapers were writing about it for longer. Members of the Liberal party were talking of it until they converted a section of the Labour party. Then together they talked conscription to the people of Australia. With ample time to consider the matter the people turned down their appeal, and yet we have the present. Government coming along now, and telling" us that we can still get 16,500 men per month under the voluntary system. 
If they, know anything, they are convinced (now, or they ought to be, of the truth of what we told them on the floor of this chamber before the referendum took place. We said that, even supposing all the fit men were prepared to go to the front - and we know that all are not prepared to go to the front - they would be unable to get the number of men they say is required. Speaking from memory, about- 200,000 men responded to the compulsory call for military service under the proclamation, and of that number about 100,000 passed the doctors. There were 47,000 of those who passed the doctors who applied for exemption, and exemptions were being granted at the rate of nearly 70 -per cent, of those who applied. 
The honorable senator is right. Nearly allwho passed the doctors applied for exemption. -A few days before the referendum was taken the Government came out with a statement showing that they were prepared to exempt almost every one. Yet they think now that they will be able to get 16,500 men per month, though the figures of the compulsory call show that they cannot get anything like that number, even if all who are fit to go to the front volunteer to enlist. In the circumstances, it is of no use for the Government to expect success for the proposed recruiting campaign. The Leader of our party in the Senate the other day  rightly said that a Government so utterly discredited as the present Government is cannot expect to successfully appeal to the people on that or upon any other question. They have said that they will take us to the country, but I think that about the last thing the Government want is to face the country at the present juncture. I hope that the negotiations now going on in Europe will result in a peace being arrived at which will be satisfactory to our own people. I do not profess to be capable of judging what the terms of peace should be. I know that such a peace as I would suggest is not likely to be made, because all the Governments concerned are Tory Governments, but my conception of what would be the greatest safeguard to the people of the world is that all the nations that are now fighting should be prepared to' go back to their homes and live, there quietly, and should make provision, in every country engaged in the war, to give the -people a universal franchise and to establish compulsory education. If that were done, I am satisfied that there would no longer be any fear of a recurrence of such a war as we are now engaged in. The Government may pride themselves upon carrying on the affairs of Australia successfully, and those who have gone from the Labour party may believe that they did right. I believe that they did wrong. I believe that they have, perhaps unwittingly, assisted in the consummation of a plot that was in the minds of our political, enemies, not for a day or two, but for quite a long while. We know that they are cute and wily, and are prepared to descend to any trickery to defeat the Labour party. How could they defeat a party like ours that had fought through all the stress and storm of political life of this country, and had reached such a position that up to a few weeks ago we were the dominant political party in Australia, and were engaged in the passing of the laws which our people had demanded centuries ago. This is what is now being done in England. The Labour organizations of .Great Britain have been telling the capitalists how they should organize the productions of the country. To-day we find that in Great Britain they have nationalized the coal mines. That is a plank in the platform of the Labour party in Australia. They have nationalized the coal mines. They propose to nationalize the railways and shipping, and to organize the nation in the way in which the Labour party have been saying during the last century that it should be organized. This great thing, which has happened in Great Britain, the nationalization of the Welsh coal mines, might have happened in Australia only the other day had another Government been in power in this country. The miners and mine-owners of Australia were engaged in industrial turmoil, and they came to  Mr. Hughes,  the Leader of the Government. Had the Prime Minister then been leader of a majority of Labour members in 'this Par-1 liament he would not have argued, for long with  Mr. John  Brown and his people. He would have said, " Send the men to work, or within twenty-four hours the mines will be ours." That is what has been done in Great Britain today. But because the Prime Minister was dependent for his place on the votes . of his lifelong political enemies he had to negotiate with  Mr. John  Brown in a way which I, have no doubt was eminently distasteful to him. 
I have not the slightest doubt that the miners were very grateful indeed for the small measure of justice given them by  Mr. Hughes.  They are getting now, in all probability, as much as they could have expected from a nationalization of the mines in the way of conditions, but they are not getting what they believe they should get. On more than one occasion during the last twenty years they have said that the only way in .which the mines can be .satisfactorily worked is by the Government taking them over. They have not got what they wanted; they have only received what they could squeeze from a Labour Government dependent upon the Liberal vote. 

 Senator Lt.-Colonel Sir ALBERT GOULD (New South Wales) [5.3].- It has been very interesting to . listen to many of the speeches which have been delivered during this debate, but I do not propose to refer to the explanations which have been made by Ministers in connexion with the charges made against them. I do intend to refer to some of the statements made in the speech which has just been delivered. I must say that I am not surprised at the vote recorded at the referendum if the people were guided by speeches containing so much fiction as distinguished the speech of the honorable senator who has just sat down. If they were guided- by speeches such as that, not only fallacious, but including expressions, of disloyalty and disaffection towards the Empire, it is no wonder that they were misguided and recorded the vote they did. I quite realize that many persons voted ."No" at the referendum honestly and conscientiously. I am not finding fault with them for doing that, but I contend that very many persons without sufficient knowledge, and thoughtlessly, were guided and carried away by the speeches made by the leaders of the anti-conscriptionist party. 
It has now become necessary to dismiss members of the. Industrial Workers of the World in the employment of the Government, because the property of the Crown is not safe while they remain there. 
I do not intend to take up the time of the Senate at any great length in fighting over again the battle which has already been fought and won. But certain statements, have been made concerning myself in connexion with the referendum campaign to which I think it necessary to refer. So far as I am personally concerned, I did my level best to secure victory for the " Noes," and now that the anti-conscriptionists have been victorious I am prepared to assist the present or any other Government to carry on the war, and to get the men who are wanted, under the voluntary system. Some persons have twitted me with adopting a "Yes-No" attitude on the conscription question, and some have described me as a twister. It has been said that before I left England, and while I was on the' transport returning to Australia, I was in favour of the Prime Minister's pro- posal, and was an out-and-out conscriptionist. I wish to place on record a few facts which will go to show that I never violated in any way one of the principles which I have professed during my lifetime. I knew of the agitation in favour of conscription in Australia before I left England. I was told by the gentleman who"ran"  Mr. Hughes'  campaign in England, where I admit he did good work for Australia, that I would have to vote for conscription before I was a month- in Australia. I wanted to know how that could be, and I was told that I would have to do so or get out of the Labour party, because the party would listen to  Mr. Hughes,  would change its principles, and stand for conscription. My opinion then was that the trade unionists of Australia would not vote for conscription. Events have proved that I was right in coming to that conclusion. They were not prepared to vote for conscription, not because of any desire on their part to escape their obligations, but because they believed that every obligation to the country could be fulfilled without forcing conscription on this young nation. While I was engaged in the referendum campaign, the following statement, which appeared in a Western Australian newspaper, was sent to me: - 
They might all claim to be able to confirm it, but  Mr. Hughes  or  Mr. Shepherd  can bear out the truth of what I say. 
It was not spoken of. 
I think about the end of June or the beginning of July 
I wrote a letter to the  Argus  in connexion with Sergeant Boyland's statement, and they were good enough to publish my denial. I will not read that letter, because it would be only a repetition of what I have just said. After the referendum campaign was over, this paragraph was put into my hands : - 

 Senator McDougall's Two Voices. 
Stratford. - Messrs. McLachlan, M.L.A., and G. A. Maxwell, addressed a large gathering in the local Town Hall on Saturday afternoon in favour of the Conscription proposal. 

 Mr. Maxwell said  Senator McDougall,  who recently returned from England, was influencing a large number of voters- 
I hope I did influence a large number - by stating that' Conscription was not necessary, and that men were not needed. 
That is an absolute falsehood. 
Yet Rev. Macrae Stewart, who was a chaplain at the front, and who had travelled back to Australia with  Senator McDougall,  stated publicly last week that, on the voyage out,  Senator McDougall  had expressed himself as strongly in favour of  Mr. Hughes  proposals, and that every effort should be made to get more men. That, said  Mr. Maxwell,  was  Senator McDougall's  opinion before the Labour Party had dragooned him into line with those who were opposed to Conscription. 
That is the sort of thing I object to. No one has ever yet dragooned me into anything. The first man I met on landing in Australia from the Old Country was  Senator Ready.  I then met  Senator Gardiner,  to both of whom I expressed my views against conscription. I arrived on a Sunday, and the two senators I have referred to will bear me out when I say that I had no word from the Political Labour party, no letter, or telegram, and it was impossible for them to dragoon me into anything. It would appear that this reverend gentleman has gone out of his way to brand me as a twister. On the return journey in the transport I occupied my time in doing what I could to make the trip as pleasant as possible for the invalided soldiers. My time was mostly occupied with them. I do not suppose that I had a quarter of an hour's1 conversation with this reverend gentleman during the whole of the voyage. There were five or six chaplains on the boat. I believe that they 'were well liked by the men. Their simple duty was once a week to have a church parade, and they could not be found with the men at any other time. Some of the men on the boat did speak to me about these conscription proposals of  Mr. Hughes,  and some even of those who differed from me on the question have been good enough to write to me concerning the views I expressed to them, and permitting me to place their statements on record if I think fit. I am thankful for their statements. I received the following letter from a Melbourne lad: - 200 Bourke-street, 
Melbourne, 16th November, 1916. 
Dear Friend and  Sir, 
Allow me to write to you with the express purpose of conveying 'to all whom it may concern, that, while returning from England on the S.S.  Marathon-A74  - that your, ideas and suggestions were decidedly and conspicuously against conscription from the beginning to the end of the voyage. I very much regret having to state the above, asmy sympathies are with the conscriptionist- 
This returned soldier is a conscriptionist himself, and, therefore, he would not be likely to make a statement like this if it was not correct - 
Believe me, I am, ; Your. well-wisher, 
Arthurf.Purnell. 20 West Melbourne-road, Newtown, Geelong. 
This young fellow is well known in Victoria. He has relatives, I believe, in the Military Forces of the State, and his word would be taken even before that of the reverend gentleman who gave this information to  Mr. Maxwell.  Here is a letter from Sydney - 54 Muston-street, Mosman, 
Sydney, 23rd November, 1916. 
Dear  Senator McDougall, 
I noticed during the conscription campaign that your name was used as an example of the Yes-No politician in regard toquestion. 
I myself can refute the imputation. When we discussed the conscription issue during the voyage out, on the H.M.T.  Marathon,  you were always strongly against conscription of any sort. 
Am sorry to see that any false assertions have been made against you. I am always  ready to refute them. 
Yours sincerely, 
T.U. Roy Wilson (late A.I.F.). 
The next letter is from Victoria - 
Numurkah, 26th November, 1916. 

 Senator McDougall, 

Dear  Sir, 
Ithas been brought to my notice that Chaplain McCrae stated in the  Argus  that, whilst on the  Marathon,  you were in favour of conscription. This was rather a surprise to me, as in course of conversation with me you frequently expressed yourself in unmistakable terms against conscription. 
Knowing what your views on the question are, I think that this statement of the chaplain's is calculated to do you harm; therefore I think that it is only a, fair thing that I 
I am, sir, 
Yours faithfully, 
Harold E. Krutle (late of the A.I.F.). 
Here is a letter from a young soldier who has been through the battles and is a conscriptionist himself.  His  father is well known 'as a business man in a big way in Sydney, and he writes in these terms: - 
To whom it may concern. 
I, Corporal E. L. Edwards, of the 1st D.A.P., having heard that the consistency of  Senator the Hon.  Alan McDougall's attitude on the . question of compulsion for Australia has been questioned, hereby declare that throughout the voyage of the Australian transport  Marathon,  by which vessel I returned from the front, the honorable senator's attitude on the- question was one of consistent and determined hostility. 
As I was strongly in favour of conscription, many arguments arose between us, and, though I cannot say that I was uninfluenced by his consistency, I voted for conscription, as in duty bound, and am still in favour of it. 
L. Edwards, Cpl. " 
Milton-street, Ashfield, Sydney. . 
I have here a letter from a well-known 
Melbourne pressman, who gave his services to his country and was invalided back in the same boat as I travelled in. I will not read the whole of his letter, because it is too long, but only some extracts 
During the late campaign of vituperative abuse I read with much surprise in the  Argus  a statement by one of the military chaplains - theRev. (Something) McCrae, I think it was - that you had, on the  Marathon,  declared yourself in, favour of conscription. I may state that on a number of occasions, when the topic arose, you expressed yourself most unequivocally against conscription in Australia in the presence of myself and several others in my cabin; and your views on the matter seemed to be well known to those and others with whom you were in the habit of conversing on board- although you were by no means given to airing your views in general from the church-tops or mast-head. 
I remember one occasion particularly, by reason of the circumstances: - On the evening of Saturday, 16th September, when we had just arrived at Fremantle, you came into my cabin with an exclusive copy of the Perth evening paper containing news of the expulsion of  Mr. Hughes  from the LabouT party by the executive of the P.L.L. in Sydney. In the presence of Sergeant T. U. E. Wilson, A.A.M.C., and Corporal Edwards, of the 1st D.A.P., we had an animated discussion, during which you unmistakably declared yourself against conscription, and that you would take the platform against it. 
Faithfully yours, 
H. Rogers, 
Late Staff-Sergeant Transport A.I.F. 

 Senator Allan McDougall, 
Parliament House. 
want to dispute the attitude taken up by some of my opponents during the campaign, and especially the assertion that I was dragooned by the Political Labour League into taking the action which il did. I can hardly understand that this reverend gentleman could give this information ; but,' if he did, I can only put it down, as the pressman does, to a misconception on his part. I desire to put the letters on record, in order to . maintain my political reputation. I think that since I have been in the Senate I have been constant on all questions affecting the Labour movement. The reason why I took up the attitude I did after my ar-. rival from England was because the trade unionists I met in France and on Salisbury Plain were unanimously against conscription for Australia. They asked me to take back to the trade unionists pf Australia a message, which I . faithfully brought back. So far as the voting was concerned, I believe that it was very emphatic at the front, and also on Salisbury Plain. What it was in Egypt I do not know. Here is a letter which I haye received from a trade unionist - a -man belonging to my own union, and one of the best supporters whom the Prime Minister has ever had. He was one of those who formed, or his father did, the West Sydney League before the first Federal campaign, in which  Mr. Hughes  was elected member for West. Sydney. The old man is still alive, and his boy is at the front holding the same opinion as I do. When a man, who was in the first landing at Gallipoli, and has been wounded at the front on several occasions, writes to me inthe way he does, and asks trade unionists to vote against conscription, surely that" man and men like him are not to be spoken of in the language which was used during the referendum campaign ! I do not object- to it at all personally, but to call men who have been to the front, and have done their share in this great battle for the Empire, pro- Germans, mongrels, and other terms of that description, is not, I think, a fair repayment for their services to the nation. Is it any wonder that, when such letters come from the battlefield as they do, the people, of this country voted as they did ? Writing from Belgium, this soldier says - 
I have heard all about this talk of conscription, and if there is a referendum taken, and we all get a vote, " No " will have a big majority here. 
Billy Hughes is getting himself badly liked ewer here on account of his twisting and turning, I see where the P.L.L. has turned him down, also Holman and Coy. Nearly time. 
All the boys here are fed up with Hughes, Fisher, and Birdwood, and all their talk about the gallant Anzacs. 
How happy they are in the trenches. Some late arrivals were told that the Second Division had to be pulled out of the trenches during the recent fighting on the Somme. Yes, I know all about that. None of us could get out quick enough. 
There is another part of this letter referring to a visit by  Mr. Fisher  and General Birdwood, which I will not read as it is rather hot. That is the sort of stuff which is coming from these boys by every mail, and can any one wonder at the result of the referendum vote? 
I have not the date, as the original letter is at home. It could not have come by the last mail, because the writer talks about a visit by  Mr. Fisher  to the trenches. I have a letter from an officer. The Prime Minister received a cablegram from the Miners Corps in France asking the people to vote "Yes," and this' is a letter from an officer holding a high position in the corps recommending the people to vote "No." 

 Sitting suspended from 6.30 to 8 p.m. 

When the sitting was suspended I was about to quote from, a letter by an officer of the Miners' Corps, who is one of my personal acquaintances, a mechanic with, whom I worked for many years. He writes! - 
Conscription appears to be a burning question in Australia. Personally I am opposed to it. I know there are many here who will vote for it; but I still believe in the grand old spirit of coming forward and fighting for the cause of liberty and humanity. 
I am sure the way in which our Australian soldiers have acquitted themselves is the best appeal that could be made to the manhood of any nation; and I. hope that the needs of the hour will never force us into following in the wake of a conscript country. 
He is a man who believes that the voluntary system will provide all the reinforcements that we require. During the recent referendum campaign one of the arguments used against conscription was that its adoption would interfere with the harvest, that it would produce a shortage of labour, and that the crops would thus be lost to the nation.  Senator Millen  has pointed out that there is likely to be a shortage of food in Britain, because' the Board of Trade has asked the people of the Old Country to be satisfied with an inferior loaf. Personally, I do not think it is an inferior loaf. It is not quite so tasty a loaf as the old one, but it is just as good.  Mr. Runciman, President  of the Board of Trade, recently stated that - 
Next year we will have to depend upon Australian suppliesfor our food. 

 His words bear out the contention of anticonscriptionists that it would have been better for us to have continued growing food for Britain and her Allies than to send men out of the country and allow our crops to go to waste. I have already expressed my desire to whole-heartedly assist in the recruiting campaign. The best way in which we can do that is to remove the disabilities which now exist and the prejudices which are entertained by men against enlistment. The accommodation provided on our transports and in our camps has considerably retarded recruiting. In my opinion, these defects can easily be removed. The greatest bar to recruiting is to be found in the fact that the conditions on board our transports are not fair. I believe' that they are capable of considerable, improvement. At present, too many men are crowded on to these vessels, and they are not provided with proper food. I had an opportunity of seeing these things for myself, and Iascertained that the shipping companies are not entirely to blame. On one vessel by which I travelled complaint was made as to the food supplied to the men. I interviewed the captain, who produced his scale of food, and who showed conclusively that the ls. 9d. per day allowed for each man's food was insufficient, and that practically the company was providing more than it was called upon to provide. The rations on our- troopships should be increased, so as to permit of an ample supply of good food being provided. Another source of dissatisfaction relates to the" dependants of men who volunteer for the front. These do not receive sufficient money, and they do not get it in the way that they should. Personally, I favour an increase in the separation allowance, so as to place every dependant of a soldier beyond want. I have heard many men express their willingness to go to the front so long as the Government would provide for their wives and families in the way that they are being provided for at present. That could be done by increasing the separation allowance. The Government should see that the dependants of all who make sacrifices by volunteering for service, abroad are properly provided for. Taxation should be levied for the purpose of enabling these dependants to be maintained in the same degree of comfort as they are being maintained to-day. If that were done, we should get adequate reinforcements, but it is unreasonable to expect men to leave their wives and families when the latter receive only the small pittance that is at present payable. Better treatment should also be extended to men who leave good positions, and we should insist upon them being reinstated in those positions upon their return. I know of a man who has been working in the General Post Office, Sydney, as a temporary employee for some years. He has three sons at the front, and yet he has been dismissed, and his place has been filled ' by another temporary employee who has been in the country only a very short time. That is the sort of thing that deters recruiting. We ought to give a guarantee to the men who enlist for service abroad that those whom- they leave behind will be well treated. If I were going to start recruiting, I would commence at the top of the tree. I would begin with Parliament House, and would, ask why all the eligible men there have not enlisted. If we did that, we would remove a disability which tells heavily against the recruiting system. ' Then I would go to the large factory employer, and say to him, "We want your men to go to the front. Are you prepared to' give them their positions on their return?" If he said "Yes," it would be all right; but if he said "No," we should deal with him. I would advise the Ministry and the War Council to attempt something on the lines I have indicated, and I venture to say that adequate reinforcements would then be forthcoming. Another way of securing additional volunteers is by increasing the age limit. Quite recently  Mr. Winston  Churchill told us that there were too many noncombatants behind the firing line. He assured us that there were two armies - the army at the front, and an army of 200,000 behind- the British lines. We have non-combatants in the same ratio.; and it seems to me that we might easily form a brigade of 1,000 men up to fifty years of age, who would be capable of releasing these men for service in the trenches. I saw able-bodied men in Prance who were anxious to get to the front, but who could not be released from their non-combatant* duties because there were no others able to fill their places. If we could furnish men to perform these non-combatant duties, some 12,000 or 15,000 able-bodied soldiers would be released for service in the firing line. There is just one other matter upon which I should like to touch, namely, the desirableness of forming distinctive brigades. If that were permitted, I think that we should obtain a great many more men than we can hope to obtain under present' conditions. My own countrymen, are anxious to form a brigade, but they are not allowed to do so. When the late Government refused to allow distinctive dress to be worn by Scotch regiments, we were told by  Senator Pearce  that men were not permitted to wear distinctive uniforms at the front. That statement was absolutely incorrect, because I saw men wearing the kilts near the firing line and at the depots in France. Quite recently our returned, soldiers desired to form a distinctive brigade; but I understand that their offer has been refused.  Mr. Neilson,  who has just returned from America, has also stated that when the war broke out he sent an offer from Australians in America " who were anxious to serve in Egypt. He inserted a notice in his window calling for applicants, and no fewer than 250 had responded by the next morning. There are Australians in America willing to go to the front to fight for their native' country, but they cannot raise the passage money to come. to Australia to enlist, or if they do they may be refused. I know some that have come from America and enlisted here. Others have been turned down as medically .unfit' and have had to go right back again. I see no objection to accepting the offer of brigades and battalions wherever they come from. While I was in England there were many Australians there willing to form distinctive brigades and battalions, and willing also to take positions in the ranks, but they were refused., Our military authorities there, for what reason I do not know, would not' allow them to do so. The Australian Natives Association in England had the matter before the High Commissioner, ' and offered their services to form a brigade, but the offer was not accepted, and our men had to join there, of course at a very small rate of pay. I believe that if my advice in this matter were adopted, we should get a great many more men. My duties as a commissioner of the Australian Comforts Fund in Egypt, England, and Prance gave me a great insight into the conditions in our hospitals. I did not hear many complaints, but the Surgeon-General, Major-General Howse, Brigadier-General  Sir Newton  Moore, and the High Commissioner, gave me permission during my .visits to the hospitals or the camps to tell the men if they had any complaints to make them there,' and if I saw anything that wanted remedying I could report it either to the SurgeonGeneral or the High Commissioner and it, would be rectified. I did that on very, many occasions. I saw several things that I thought could be bettered, and reported them," and they were attended to. The complaints we' have heard are unfounded, because the men have the option, if anything is wrong, of making complaints in the proper quarter, when, I believe, they will be attended to. For instance, in No.  2 General Hospital in France, those in charge were afraid, as it. was a canvas hospital, that they would not be able to cope with the difficulties of retarding disease when the. cold of winter came on, and also feared an accident when the strong winds blew. I made a report recommending the substitution of wooden huts, and there was no hesitation, at all, for an order was at once given for wooden huts to replace, the canvas tents. 
As I know it is the natural desire of the Administration to get this Supply 
Bill through in the interests of the nation, I shall not occupy any more time than I feel is absolutely necessary to comment .on some features of the two debates that have been under way in this chamber during the last two or three weeks. I congratulate those Ministers who have secured portfolios in the new Administration as they had them in the past. . I can sympathize with them. They have had two years of- the stress and strain of administration during this great world-wide struggle, and any criticism which I may feel it necessary to address to them regarding acts of administration will be of a kindly and not of a vitriolic character. My old friend and very valiant supporter, who subsequently developed into the principal in the advocacy of conscription - I refer to the Minister for Public Works - has my hearty congratulations also. I am pleased that the gods do indeed sometimes take care of Cato, and that if -he has been kicked out by those valiant gentlemen of great political integrity who have gone into opposition, he has certainly been  kicked upstairs. Long may he remain there to do his best in the interests of the country. My general attitudetowards 'the Administration may be likened to that utterance which  Sir Walter  Scott has put into the mouth of the Grand Master in  Ivanhoe.  I may be permitted to paraphrase the sentence a little. To the present Hughes Administration and the members of the Labour party who, like sensible' patriots land lovers) of liberty, are supporting that Administration, I say, "You have always been our political opponents, but we willi meet you honorably withal." Every criticism shall be made in honour, and not with the vulgar desire to dispossess that Administration in order to supplant it with a Liberal one. The split in the Labour party, of which I know little and care less, is of very little moment to the nation at this juncture. The fortunes of the Liberal party as a political party matter not one jot to me at this stage of our history. The only concern is that of National and Imperial victory. I want peace, like everybody else,' but I want that peace 'which is the daughter of victory, that ' peace which comes along bearing the fruits of victory. No other peace will suffice for the prestigeand glory of our Empire and its Allies.. 
As the greater includes the less, I suppose I may be pardoned a short reference  Jio  that vainglorious, boasting, and yet somewhat solemn declaration of the German Kaiser in regard to the peace proposals .which he and his Allies have placed before the world. I am not a very great believer in the magnanimity of the members of the German race if they . consider that a great advantage can be obtained by material force. They are now attempting to place themselves in a superior moral position in the eyes of the neutral nations. They tell us that (Germany is willing to give- peace to the world, and they ask the world to conveniently forget that only two years ago Germany gave it war, inflicting the horrors of warfare on the innocent and unoffending- people of Belgium. Are the people of the world, much as they desire peace, going to forget this?. The Kaiser is asking us to accept peace, as he says, while the Germans have the consciousness of victory. Peace is offered in this arrogant fashion.- I am well aware that it was the statesmen of the Home Country who took the responsibility of saving the honour of the Empire by embarking in this great struggle, and, of course, the responsibility rests upon them of accepting, in the interests of the Empire and of humanity, whatever peace terms they consider sufficient. But, insignificant individual though I am, I may be pardoned for obtruding my opinions in the interests of the British race and of that British civilization which I honestly love. The only answer that will suffice for British and Allied honour is the answer which the Czar of Russia gave to Napoleon' when Napoleon was in occupation of Moscow, and found it necessary if possible to obtain peace terms from the Czar whose capital he was in. The Czar said, " We refuse to treat while there is an enemy soldier on Russian territory." That should be the attitude of the Imperial, and -Allied statesmen at this juncture. They should say ' to the Germans,  : We desire peace, but we are not going to negotiate peace with you while a German soldier is on the territory of our Allies." If the Germans want peace let them retire from those countries they have invaded, ravaged, and ravished, and then in the interests of humanity, without attempting to inflict the horrors of war on the people who are living on.Ger;man soil, the Allies in their magnanimity and the consciousness of impending and certain victory, can . offer to Germany those peace terms which alone can be honorable to the British and allied races. If the statesmen of Great Britain,/ notwithstanding the national stress and strain, are so futile and faint-hearted as to make peace on terms anything like those suggested by the Germans, I say with pain and reluctance, that I shall then believe that the sun of Great Britain has long passed its meridian, and is well on the way to its decline. God ' forbid that that result should be arrived at; but, unfortunately, there comes a time when irresolution enters into the counsels of a nation, and into the hearts of a people, and the people do not see clearly their own destiny and their own interests. It is at times like these that a -fatal step may be taken, and the whole future of a magnificent race ruined. Let no citizen of the British Empire make any mistake about this world struggle. It is the old struggle of Rome versus Carthage reproduced. I have already averred that the resources of the British Empire are in. themselves sufficient, if intelligently wielded, to defeat our great foe, formidable though he may be. If we make peace with German .militarism uncrushed with the German people full, as their Kaiser has said, of the consciousness of victory, this peace will be only like the peace made after the first Punic war be- . tween the Carthaginians and Romans, both sides well knowing that .the struggle had to be renewed. Do the allied people's really want this struggle to be renewed? Some pessimistic philosophers believe tb.a£ there will be war as long as the human race inhabits this planet, and undoubtedly there will be war of some kind 'from time to time, but I am sure that the British and other allied peoples sincerely hope for peace, not only in their generation, but for many succeeding generations of their descendants. It is only by showing that great resolution which enables the patient to submit to the surgeon's knife that the peace which is symbolical of all that is best  in a nation's history, that peace which is sequential on victory, can be secured. I have heard a great deal during these two debates of what Australia has done, and how a period should be put to her efforts. Many of the arguments used upon this side- of the  chamber by the gentlemen who have lately seceded from the Labour- party are, in themselves, contradictory. 
A party which does not. retain some remnant of the principle of liberty is not worth calling a party. I recognise only those gentlemen on the Government bench, and their supporters, as the Labour party. It is the only Labour party that can be worth anything to the Democracy of Australia, because it alone enshrines the last remnant of liberty to be found in- Labour ranks. The arguments used by a lot of these gentlemen- on this side are selfcontradictory. They argue that we should win the war, and that as many men as can be got under the voluntary system- - which, as has been well said, is. -neither voluntary nor a system - should be sent to the war, and a few minutes afterwards they say that Australia has been denuded of her men, and cannot afford to send any more. T cannot understand that sort of argument. Either Australia wants the men. and should send no more, or she should put forth the supreme effort .of which she is capable. There has been a. gr eat deal of balderdash talked about the danger of denuding Australia of .her manhood, but let me remind the Senate that Australia is more' typically British than any .other country in the world. The British Empire differs from every other Empire. The German Empire has a majority of Germans in its population ; the Russian Empire has a majority of people who are Russian in extraction; and the Japanese Empire has a majority of people who are pure Japanese ; but the British Empire is a congerie of races. Iri this Empire of ours, numbering about 447,000,000 human beings, the reins of the government are in the hand of a dominant race of about 65,000,000 white people, not all of British extraction. Upon this portion -of the British Em: pire's population devolves the duty of maintaining the prestige of our nation. Australia, of all the Dominions, is the most homogeneous, containing, as it does, about one-eleventh of the white British population of the Empire; and, although it has been a popular thing to say that Australia is so small as to be of no consequence in this great struggle, I remind the Senate that Australia has one-eleventh of the white races' of the Empire of British blood, and consequently it must have one-eleventh of the responsibility. Australia is more homogeneous as a British community than even the United Kingdom itself, for there they still retain their racial divisions of Scottish, Irish, Welsh, and English nationalities, while here we are purely British in extraction. Moreover, the percentage of masculinity here is higher than elsewhere. I emphasize this fact because it has been the foolish practice of late to tell the servant girls of this country that if conscription were carried they would have to marry Chinamen, and all that sort of nonsense. In 1914, there were, in Australia, 180,000 more males than females. I do not mean to say that the surplusage of males consisted of .adults, but there was that excess of males in Australia. In other words, to quote  Mr. Knibbs,  there were in Australia 106 males for every 100s females. Now, what is the position in Great Britain ? In normal times, before the war, there were nearly 2,000,000 more women than men, and, in view of this fact, on which portion of the British Dominions does the responsibility rest for putting forward the major effort in this war? Is it upon Australia, where one-eleventh of the white British population of the Empire is , situated, and where, in 1914, there was an excess of masculinity amounting to 180,000, or iri Great Britain, where, before the war, there were 2,000,000 more women than men ? . The fact that we are some distance away from the centre of the Empire does not absolve us of our responsibility. I mean to say that it is our duty to put forward a greater proportionate effort than is being put forward by the people of the Old Country; but I must state that I am bitterly disappointed in the people of Australia. I am not disappointed or chagrined merely because I advocated conscription for over two years, and that the principle was rejected by a small majority at the referendum. I am not particularly disturbed over the " No " vote, but I am appalled by the psychological manifestation incidental to the referendum! poll. We know how many conflicting reasons were advanced by different people to justify their own votes and yie votes of others in regard to this question. One man told me that he was going to vote " No " because the hotels were closed  at .  6 o'clock; while another man, who hap- pened to be married, said that he would vote " No " because too many unmarried men were being exempted by the Courts. All sorts of reasons were given to justify the "No", votes on this momentous question. 
On the other side, only one reason actuated the people, and that was the supreme need for an immediate and great sacrifice in the interests of the Empire, which it is the duty of every British citizen to preserve. 
I know nothing whatever about that. So far as I was concerned, I indulged in no scandalous abuse in my advocacy of the principle, but rested on the justice of my cause to persuade the Australian people of their duty. The appeal failed, however, and Australia failed the Empire. Before the poll was taken, Australia could have stood against the world, so far as international influence was concerned, but now there is none so poor as to do her reverence. If there is to. be a- peace conference, as suggested by the later news from the seat of war, and if the Prime Ministers of the different Dominions are to be called in consultation with the parliamentarians of the Old Country, what status will the Prime Minister of Australia have, irrespective of the political party to which he belongs ? He will be in the position of representing that portion of the Empire which was the first to throw in the towel; the first part of the British Dominions ' which refused nationally to make the supreme sacrifice. The Prime Minister, at such a conference, would have no status whatever; and if Australia, through her delegate to that conference, demanded the retention of German New Guinea in order that Australia should not be confronted in the future with Zeppelins flying at her gates, what status would he have? In such circumstances, the international diplomats would be entitled to say, " Why did you fail us? Why did you stab us in the back?" I do not say' that those who voted "No" were not patriots, or were disloyal, or anything of that sort, but I do say they were misguided, and took nationally and Imperially a wrong course. There can be no doubt about that ; and therefore the Prime Minister of Australia could hardly attend a peace conference and resolutely make a demand for the retention of New Guinea. 
They would spit, diplomatically speaking, on our national beard. In the face of the situation as disclosed at the referendum poll, would  Senator Gardiner  have the hardihood to suggest that the Australian Parliament should, by resolution of both Houses, ask the Imperial Government not to accept any unsatisfactory peace terms, but resolutely hold the conquered territory in New Guinea back from Germany? Would he be able to do as Regulus did in the Roman Senate-when a prisoner in the hands of the Carthaginians, sent by them as a peace embassy to Rome in the hope that he would advise the Romans to make peace - tell his countrymen to make no peace; but to continue the war to the end, as the resources of Carthage were practically exhausted? In the light of the recent referendum poll, that would be a ghastly joke, and still further lower the prestige of Australia as a nation. 
I cast that imputation in  Senator Gardiner's  teeth. He does not frighten me. 
I have said that while the " No ' vote did not particularly grieve me I greatly deplored it, for I recognise that popular opinion varies. with circumstances. That is the diffidulty about a referendum poll; and, just as  Senator Gardiner  and his party would not accept the verdict of the people twice recorded in opposition to certain proposals for the amendment of the Constitution, it is no more incumbent on those who advocate conscription to accept the verdict of the people, given on the 28th October, as the final verdict on that question. If we had an election in a few months, and. the result of the poll meant the return of a majority of members favorable to conscription, do honorable senators say that they would not regard that as a mandate from the people? In the population of every country there is a certain proportion o£ people martially minded, and who will naturally fight. Iri some countries this percentage is greater than in others, but in every race there is a percentage of these martiallyminded men, who are ever ready to advocate the cause of their country, and to engage in its defence on the battlefield. 
That has always been the position. It does not matter if a man is approaching &lt; the very last days of his life, if he is sixty or seventy years of age; and advocates conscription, there will be found young men saying to the grey beard, "Why don't you go yourself?" Is it thus that the young men of Rome spoke to their elders ? Is this the way that the young men of Scotland spoke to the old men of Edinburgh when they marched forth to meet the. Southron? 
Let me tell the honorable senator that the Minister for Defence can inform him that my name is at. the disposal of the Government. 
Yes; and I am aware that some members of the honorable senator's party secured a cheap advertisement by approaching the recruiting officers, knowing all the. time that they were  well over the military age, and could not be accepted. Over two years ago I contended that it would be necessary to tho roughly inform the people of Australia concerning the military situation, in order that we could show that military prevision which, up to the present, seems almost to have been the sole property of the German people. I took that action in order that we might have things placed upon an orderly, equitable, and democratic basis throughout the Empire. But what happened'? We had gentlemen like  Mr. Catts  going about and assuring Australian people that there was immediate danger, and that it was unwise to send any more males out of the Commonwealth. If it was unwise, granting, .for the purpose of .the argument,  Mr. Catts'  contention of local danger, was it .not wise . to immediately start to drastically and properly train the males of fighting age whom we had here? The Prima Minister, wisely, or unwisely, decided to call up the manhood of Australia under an Act which is already on the statutebook, and the whole credit for which was claimed by the Labour party two' years ago. Let honorable senators not forget that, a little over two years ago, at the general election which took place subsequent to the declaration of war, when the members of the Labour party were taking credit for doing everything warlike in connexion with Australia's policy, they insisted upon the Australian people believing that it was to their party that all the credit was due for placing upon the statute-book of the Commonwealth the Defence Act, which embodies and emphasizes the principle of compulsion. Is that not so? 
The members of the Labour party, so to speak, cut our political throats by using that as an argument at the general election. 
I admit that- we did.  I said that I ^bought the credit for the Act 'might be fairly apportioned between  both parties, because both desired to do something for the defence of Australia, and in regard to our naval defence, it was between us only a question of methods to be adopted. The Labour party, claimed the whole of the honour for "the passing of that legislation. Is that not so? 
I ask the honorable senator whether the Labour party did not claim the entire credit for putting the principle of compulsory military service upon the national statute-book of Australia ? 
I ask my honor-  able friends whether, at the present time, they contemplate an amendment of the 1 Defence Act, eliminating the principle of compulsory military service? 
Then the principle of compulsory military service is not in itself an unclean thing? 
Then the difference between  Mr. Hughes  and his late followers is only one of military strategy. Honorable senators are crucifying  Mr. Hughes  because, as military administrator, he believed it was necessary to keep the zone of battle away from the shores of Australia. ' Are they pillorying the Prime Minister for believing in the same principle of compulsion which they claim credit for having introduced into the Defence Act ? 
Then what are they pillorying him for? 
Then I repeat that the difference between honorable senators and the Prime Minister is one. of military strategy, and, after all is said and done, and despite all his faults, I think it is clear that  Mr. Hughes  is the best strategist. Honorable senators are elevating this question into a cross on which they wish to politically crucify the Prime Minister, and the whole-souled patriots who adhered to their leader in this time of national crisis. 
I am one of those who are always sure of themselves. I have always properly appreciated those principles of liberty without which the Labour party will be an extinct volcano. The interjections which have been made have led me somewhat off the track. I was referring to what I regard as a startling revelation in regard to the psychology of the Australian people. Honorable senators must remember that a certain proclamation was issued under the Defence Act for which the Labour party claim all the credit, and by virtue of which men cannot be sent out of Australia compulsorily without the nation giving its consent either per medium of a referendum or the expressed and indicated will of its representatives in Parliament. Remember that men of a certain age 'were called up, and were paid while they were called out a higher wage than is paid to any soldier . in the world except the soldiers of the Australian Expeditionary Forces and the soldiers of the Federal Army of the United States of America. We may assume that many had dependants and were filial. Undoubtedly, some of them would be filialy disposed, and I ask whether the young men who were called out gave -30s. or 35s. of their weekly pay for the maintenance of their old fathers, of mothers? Not many of them did. Honorable senators must remember that , while they were in  Mr. Hughes'  tents they were fed and. clothed and received 5s. a day for seven days in each week. I am referring to young adult men and not to minors and. lads like some of those who went away with tne Australian Expeditionary Forces. I am not referring, either, to old men like some who dyed their beards, shaved off their moustaches, and told falsehoods about their age in order to get to the front, because they were men of martial souls. I am referring to the picked manhood of the nation, men from twenty-one to thirty-five years of age. Well, I say that a startling thing occurred which, in my view, represented a military and moral Sedan of - a disastrous character, and something worse than the capitulation of Ulm. Some 80,000 of the fit men out of the 200,000 called up under the proclamation " dropped their bundle," asked that they should be allowed to lay down the gun, and made claims for exemptions. There were, of course, a few honorable exceptions. 
It has to be said that in the national interest a certain percentage of exemptions would be found necessary; but did anybody believe that when the fit manhood of Australia in a military sense were called up there would be an application made for exemption from practically every man who had been declared to be medically fit for military service? I certainly did not. I anticipated a possible " No " vote at the referendum but I did not anticipate that deplorable result from the proclamation calling up men for military service. Some of the manhood of Australia did not respond to the call and did not even report themselves. 
The very men who in this Parliament passed a clause in the Military Service Referendum Bill permitting the drastic questioning of and the investigation of the votes of people who .might be declared disloyal, because of alien extraction, championed the cause of these young fellows who fought such a wonderful rearguard action at the ballotbox. There were plenty in Tasmania, although it must be said for Tasmania that  the men who there went into  Mr. Hughes'  camps responded to a greater extent than did the. men in any other State in the Commonwealth to the call for .voluntary enlistment. I am not here for the purpose of playing to the young men at the . next, election, and asking for their votes. ' I am going to tell them what I think of them, in the hope that my bitter words may make them whole. 
I do not believe in these exemptions at all. My brotherinlaw's only son has gone to the war twice. He came back here invalided, and returned to the front. Let me say that I did not believe in the very voluminous list of exemptions which accompanied the calling of men into the proclamation camps. 
I am not going to be diverted from the matter to which  I wish to refer. I read the proceedings of the Exemption Courts, and very rarely ' did I find from any single man anything like what I would call an honest and manly claim for exemption. 
Most decidedly. Does  Senator Ready  mean to say that the men who would refuse to report in obedience to the call und-i- the proclamation were 'not more dangerous to the interests of the Empire than are men and women of possibly alien extraction, but loyal to Australia, whose votes might be challenged at the ballot-boxes under the legislation passed by this Parliament for the conduct of the referendum? These men were to be asked a simple question as to whether they had reported themselves for military service under the proclamation, and I say of. those who did not do&gt; so that their disloyalty was quite equal in degree to any probable disloyalty on the part of a man who might have some modicum of alien extraction in him: I really cannot understand* how, in this great national crisis, there should be so much solicitude expressed on behalf of those young scoundrels, as I call them, who dared to disobey a lawful order based upon an enactment passed by the Parliament of their country to meet a situation of crisis and danger.  Mr. Catts,  and hia fellows, who said that Australia was in very great danger because of certain contingencies, and who said that men should be kept here in order that they should be trained to meet those dangers, were 'the first to protest against men being trained to meet the very dangers with the recital of which they deluded the Australian people. ' We have here a gentleman who was at the time a Minister of the Crown, and who, with a great show of firmness, said that, whatever his opinions might be in regard to conscription, he certainly thought that the law should not be evaded, and that unquestionably the penalties provided by  the law should be meted out without fear or favour to those who, in connexion with the preliminary step, failed the country in her hour of need. Certain contingencies developed into actualities, and the- honorable senator retired from the Ministry. Almost immediately, and before the ink with which his words were recorded was dry, we found him heading a deputation, and demanding that the ' Government should take the very action which he had reprobated as a Minister. 
Singular to say, and lamentable to relate, the honorable senator achieved his purpose. 
The honorable senator was a member of a deputation that asked that the proclamation should be rescinded, and that certain' action should be taken. Were you a member of such a deputation, or were you not? 
The honorable senator must address the Chair. 
I remind the honorable senator that he has made a statement which  Senator Gardiner  says is incorrect. The Standing Orders provide that an honorable senator must accept the assurance of another honorable senator in such a case. I ask  Senator Bakhap,  therefore, to accept  Senator Gardiner's  assurance, and withdraw his statement. 
 If all dur young men have gone to the front, why should other families refuse to send the'ir young men?" - That is a justification of the equity and democracy of the principle of compulsory service. I. do -not abate my opinion one jot that if this war continues compulsory servicewill be necessary. At the outset of my advocacy pf conscription I was met with ejaculations of astonishment. I was told, "  Mr. Asquith  does not believe in it, nor does  Mr. Lloyd  George, and Lord Kitchener does not say that it is necessary." These statements, however, did not daunt me. I knew that if the war continued conscription would be necessary. If the people of Australia are ever going to hold up their heads again, and meet the gaze of the world, compulsory service must be adopted.. But for all that, I am going to do my best to make  Mr. MacKinnon's  recruiting scheme a success. I know that Tasmania for the months of October and November furnished its quota of reinforcements. But whether it continues to do so or not, I will do my best to secure under a system - which I believe is not a system - that flow of reinforcements which is essential to performing our part in the war, and to redeeming the promises. of our leading men. This country was pledged to assist the Empire to the last man and the last shilling. We are now told that this was merely a metaphor - that it was only a painted tiger to be thrown upon the Australian wall in the hope that it would frighten the enemies of the Empire. 
I desire to congratulate the Leader of the new Opposition upon the stand that he has taken up. But, after carefully reading his speech, I confess that I am puzzled as to what was his frame of mind when he made it. He seems to have been in a land of dreams, of doubts, and of fears. 
First of all, the honorable senator wanted to know where  Senator Millen  stood, and what pledges he had given to the Government, as ifthat was a matter upon which  Senator Gerdiner  was not fully informed already. I was astonished to hear the honorable senator say that he possessed the confidence of a majority of the people. I do not know how he arrived at that, conclusion, because I am absolutely certain that no man will contend that the vote which was cast on the 28th October was a vote for either Liberalism or Labour. For  Senator Gardiner  to deduce from that vote that he. has a majority of the people of Australia behind him is about the most peculiar deduction that I have ever heard 
I knew that that question would come. What about the gentlemen who went to South Australia to enter a Labour conference in which they were not representatives of that State ? And what about the gentlemen who endeavoured to get into that conference upon credentials that the society did not recognise ? ' 
Then the honorable senator's co-representative,  Mr. Blackburn,  wis not. I have never claimed, as  Senator Gardiner  has done, that the people of South Australia were behind me on the question of conscription. My attitude was based on a conviction which I held.' But my honorable friend does not plead that his attitude was the result of conviction. He pleads that the majority of the people of Australia are behind him, when, as a matter of fact, the representatives of Victoria and Tasmania, and five of the representatives of Western Australia - some ten members in all - should be supporting the Government in this chamber, because a majority of those States voted in favour of conscription. 
But I have already pointed out to my honorable friend that I attach no' importance to the figures quoted by  Senator Gardiner,  and that my attitude on the question of conscription is based on my personal convictions.  Senator Gardiner  stated that the members who are directly supporting the Government are the remnants of those who broke away from the Labour party. The position reminds me very much of a trip which was undertaken by a friend of mine to the island upon which the mutineers of the  Bounty  are settled. To me it looks as if my honorable friends opposite have mutinied against the officers of the good ship Labour. 
They have entirely departed from the spirit of Labour by the action which they have taken. They are preventing members of the Labour party from saying what they have hitherto been able to say, namely, " Outside of our printed platform, we are free men." Can my honorable friends say that .now ? 
They cannot. Never -again, so long as the so-called Labour party exists, can they stand on a public platform and say, as I have said a hundred times, " Here is the printed platform; outside of that I am a free man." I have claimed that always, and shall claim it to the end. I have subscribed, and still subscribe, to that platform. Here it is, no further back than 1915, and I challenge the wisest amongst my honorable friends to prove to me that conscription is in it. 
I signed the platform, and acknowledge that I am bound by it; but I claim freedom outside it. That was an inalienable right that we held in the party until the trouble occurred. 
Will the honorable .' senator show me where it is ? So that the general public may know that conscription is not in the platform, I will read it: " White Australia;" is it there? " Oldage and invalid pensions;" is it there? " Graduated tax on unimproved land values;" can  Senator Grant  find it in that ? " Citizen Defence Force, with compulsory military training and Australianowned and controlled Navy;" is it there? 
If it is there, my honorable friends opposite have violated the platform. 
Then why do they persecute men for what is not in the platform ?  
Has it not? On the 5th July I received a letter which was practically a pistol at my head. To continue the platform : Commonwealth Bank ; Electoral Reform; Effective Federation;' New Protection ; Nationalization of Monopolies; Arbitration Act Amendment; Navigation Laws ; Commonwealth Freight and Passenger Steamers; Restriction of Public Borrowing. Is it in any of these? Let the general public see what "bunkum"  has been foisted on them by their so-called friends. Is it in any of the following : Initiative and Referendum; Abolition of State Legislative Councils; Abolition of State Governors? I come now to the general platform : Maintenance of a White Australia; Maintenance of a Graduated Tax on Unimproved Land Values ; and so on. It is not in any one of those. The letter to which I referred was receive'd by me before I had said one word as to whether I, was a conscriptionist or an anticonscriptionist. It did not come from the Political Labour party, but from the United Trades and Labour Council of South Australia. It is another violation of our principles. It has always been held that the Trades and Labour Council dealt entirely with trade, and not with politics. We .have. distinguished between the political and industrial Labour party; but there is a great difference, now. The letter is as follows: - 
I have the honour to forward copy of resolution carried by the United Trades and Labour Council on Friday last: - " That the secretary ' be instructed to issue a circular-letter to all State and Federal members of the United Labour party in South Australian and Commonwealth Parliaments respectively, pointing out to them the resolution of the council to oppose any member on the next plebiscite who dares to support the pernicious policy of conscription, and to ascertain from them whether it is their intention to carry out the desire of the industrial workers, which is to oppose conscription of males of military age, and also the new scheme of a citizens' levy, which is being engineered by the capitalistic class of this country." 
Your reply to the above is required to reach  this office within thirty days from date. 
The political interests have always been' kept distinct from the industrial interests, and no organization has the right to hold a pistol at any man's head after he is elected. 
They have been held separate for many years. There has been a series of similar occurrences, showing what is possible under the new  regime.  It breaks down entirely that solidarity which has been the boast of the Labour party. If South Australia can hold a pistol at my head, the other States can do the same to their members. The result will be that they can have no Federal representative in the true sense. If this sort of thing can occur after a man is. elected, there is no guarantee that he will be able to fulfil the pledges he made on the platform. 
Because, equally with the honorable senator, I am a Labour . man. I have not veered one iota from the principles of the Labour party: I am concerned because something distinctly foreign to the spirit of the party has been introduced. Not only may there be a divergence amongst the different States, but there might be a divergence from the platform on every meeting day-, if any organization chooses to dictate to its representatives. It will mean that we are not longer representatives, but delegates, 'bound to do and vote just as we are told, not according to our consciences or the promises we have made, but according to the orders we receive. 
That is a distinct falsehood. The honorable senator knows that I am not ,  built that way. If he thought for a moment, he would see which side I was likely to save my skin on if I wanted to. To go with my friends over there, for they are' friends still, because this is not a personal question, was to take the lineof least resistance. 
I have never thought whether I was on thesafe side or not. My thought has always been-, "Is it right? " 
No man can charge me with calling names. Instead of sailing orders being given to the captain for the voyage, he will be liable to receive new sailing orders every day. In the expressive words of one of, the American writers, he will be facing north by south all the time and will never know where he is going.. He will never know what he is trying to do, because the orders will change with the changing winds. Seeing that the Labour party had not laid down what stand should be taken, I claimed freedom to exercise my judgment according to my conscience without being victimized, and I think every man had the right to make that claim. My honorable friends on the opposite side have always been strongly against victimization, and what is this but victimization? Because a man dares to advocate what he believes to be right in a national crisis, he is to lose all that he Has been striving to build up for twenty-five years. 
No, for the simple reason that it was a duty. We cannot be a nation without defence, and we cannot maintain society without defence. The men who will not defend society, by their own act prove that they are not worthy to be members of society. 
No, because it is on the platform. 
No, it is on the State platform, and being a representative of a State,I adhere to that policy. I admit, however, that it is not on the Federal platform. 
No, because the principle is involved in our representation in this House. It was advocated by the Labour party, and is. one of the principles of the Labour party. For that reason, therefore, the honorable senator cannot weaken my argument concerning conscription by quoting adult suffrage as an analogy. 
The conference, to which my friend alludes could only be the conference of 1915, and for his information I will quote the motion tabled at that gathering. The following motion was sent in by the Port Adelaide committee - 
This conference solemnly pledges itself to oppose, by all lawful means, the conscription of human life for military service abroad, and directs all affiliated unions and leagues to take immediate steps to oppose all Labour members who vote for, or otherwise support, conscription, so as to make this matter a clear-cut issue between the forces of ' Democracy and Despotism; where unions or leagues fail to take such action, the central executive is hereby instructed to refuse, under any circumstances, to indorse conscriptionist candidates. 
That it be an instruction to. the delegates on the Inter-State executive to oppose, at all costs, the policy of conscription. 
That copies of the foregoing resolutions be sent to the central body of the Labour organizations of each State, the Acting Prime Minister  (Senator Pearce),  and the Minister for Customs  (Mr. Tudor). 
This refers to an occasion when several senators have a long time to go, and it would apply to my friend  Senator Newland  who has six years to go yet just as it would apply to me. That motion, however, was not carried. The conference indorsed a resolution against conscription of human life, but favouring the referendum. The  president  of the conference was then interrogated immediately, "Where does that leave members?" and he replied, " It leaves them with a free hand." The members were, therefore, admittedly free, the statement of the  president  not being challenged. We accepted that freedom. 
Yes, but in favour of the referendum, and that allowed every man to vote according to his ownconscience. Immediately afterwards  a  motion expressing confidence in the Hughes Government was carried, and Federal members received an instruction from the executive to support the Hughes Government. This instruction, I remind the Senate, was given while the conscription referendum was in full blast. 
What  Mr. Hughes  told the delegates had nothing to do with the resolution of the conference. Having received that instruction to support  Mr. Hughes,  what could we do ? We complied with it and now we are condemned for doing so. 
Supposing my honorable friend were a conscriptionist, would he not be a wiser man then? He must not quote a hypothetical case and expect, me to draw a satisfactory conclusion from it. If the conference had voted for conscription, it would have been a recommendation to the Federal conference. 
I think that is  a  question that is probably troubling the honorable senator a great deal, so I will allow him to think it over. I point out to  Senator Watson  that the pledge they would bind us to in regard to this conscription issue is not in accordance with the platform of the Labour party, so they are violating the platform principle and usage in their endeavour to reach the position they occupy to-day. I want that fact to be clearly stated and widely known. The attitude of the honorable senators opposite has not caused me to veer in the slightest degree in regard to the principles which underlie a great Labour movement. 
NowI want to say something concerning the Government policy, and incidentally to refer to this question of conscription. Three points are comprehended in the Government programme. The first is the prosecution of the war as earnestly as possible. My friends opposite say that conscription is' wrong, and they believe that voluntarism will bring in the necessary number of recruits. They cannot say that Great Britain to-day has not need for every man,' and if in Great Britain there is the same cry that was heard when Nelson declared that England expected every man to do his duty, surely we in Australia should do our duty now. The point I want to drive home is this: Our Labour friends opposite say conscription is wrong. Therefore they must admit that voluntarism is right. On that reasoning they cannot escape their duty - I am not going to shrink from mine - and they must do their utmost to see that voluntarism does succeed in furnishing all the men required. They say, however, that they do not want men to go outside of Australia for any purpose. But can the defence of this country be defined by degrees of latitude? If, Papua were invaded,  Senator Watson  said Australia would spring to arms. That being so, I ask : Shall not Australia spring to arms to defend this country on' the plains of Flanders ? 
Let me point out to the honorable senator that " we" means Australia, and on his' line of reasoning this country has not sent a single man to the front. 
To the honour of Australians it can be said that very many thousands have volunteered and gone, but Australia, as a nation, has absolutely abstained from taking any part, in this war. 
But according to the reasoning of my honorable friends, 
Australia as a- nation has not sent a man. Now, defence is the basis of all society. If defence is destroyed, the basic principle on which society rests disappears. The policeman is a representative of the Army. He is a unit guarding the safety of society here, and yonder in Flanders ia a military unit carrying out the same task. If it is right that we should defend ourselves at home with a policeman, it is equally right that we should defend ourselves in Flanders, where undoubtedly the battle is being fought to maintain the liberties of Australia. 
My honorable friends will not contend that a man's duty in this matter arises only when he feels it incumbent on him to go to the front. There is imposed upon every man in the community a duty to defend the country. That is what I wish to drive home,. Is there no compulsion in the admission of that duty ? ' Will honorable senators say that many of those who have gone from Australia did not go because of the compulsion of other forces. Will it be said that there were not some who were practically hungry before they went. 
Yes, the more shame to Australia, but if my honorable friend is going to allow compulsion of one kind to force a man to the front he cannot complain of compulsion of any other kind. He cannot say that one form of compulsion is right and another is wrong. It is a duty which we owe to the nation to defend itwith every power we possess. Whatever we may think on the subject of conscription we may be agreed that if Germany could reach us to-day the fate of Belgium, Servia, and Rumania would be our fate. If it was right for the people of those countries to defend their homes, surely it is right' for us to attack the common foe where we can best defeat him. If a bush fire were threatening Senator's Watson's homestead, he would not wait until it had reached his back yard before he would try to put it out. 
It must not be forgotten that distance is fast becoming annihilated. A distance which could not be covered except in a considerable time some few years ago may be covered to-day in comparatively a very short time. It is not long ago since we had the first record of a submarine crossing the Atlantic. We read to-day that there are submarines being constructed that have a radius of 4,000 miles. Are not these things annihilating distance? If it was right for us to sink the  Emden  outside of our own territorial waters,-' and not one of my honorable friends have pronounced it as wrong, it cannot be wrong for us to meet the same enemy on the plains of Flanders. There is another point which we ought to consider. Great events like those which we are passing through at the present time try nations and men. I am expressing a .thought with which some people may not agree when I say that I am not sorry that the Labour party has had to pass through its day of trial. I am not sorry that the nation should pass through its day of trial. It is only by such tests that we can discover the strong men, the strong nation, and the strong party.' It is by trial that we are perfected.  Senator Findley  knows very well that a boiler is tested again and again because human life may be sacrificed if there be any weakness in it. He knows that if any specially strong machinery is wanted, the steel of which it is constructed is refined and tempered again and again. It is through such trials as we are passing through to-day that great nations are proved. If in the day of trial we are weak and fail, we must pass out as we have a right to pass out, and others must take our place. One of the most valuable things in nature is the diamond.Where do we find it. If we go to Cape Colony we shall find it buried in the  debris  in the throat of a volcano. How was it made Let us consider the trial to which it was subjected. It is to-day extracted from a blue clay; but was at one time enclosed in a molten mass of iron under a pressure which could be measured only by thousands of atmospheres. It' passed through a fire sufficiently intense to make every rock around it melt. Buried in a catacomb of iron and rocks that lost their individuality in the trial it remained. When disclosed by the miner's pick in the blue clay- which has lost its form to such an extent that it is impossible to say what it previously was, the pure carbon is still there, but has assumed a crystal form which it never had as carbon. So the nation, the community and the party must be tried, and if they stand firm they will be bright and better than ever they were before. I had hoped that this land, which almost witnessed my birth, arid which at least- has nurtured me' from childhood, and is in my opinion one of the grandest places where men dwell, would have produced the grandest of men. Some who have gone from us we have every reason to be proud of. When the record of Australia is written their names will be high on the scroll of fame. But surely there should be put forth some effort to compel other men to stand side by side with those who have gone to the front. Why should the bravest in the land be the only defenders of ^Australia? Why should not all men in this country do their share. We, as Labour men,, believe in equality of sacrifice.- Should it be sacrifice for the brave and the avoidance of sacrifice for those who are not brave? We believe in equality of sacrifice, and Australia, to be true to that principle, should have said to every man in the country, ' ' You are enjoying the privileges of society, ' and in this time of trial you are called upon to take a man's place and stand firm for the liberties &gt;of your country." I sincerely hope that out of our present difficulty will come, a spirit of stronger union than we ever "had before, and that Australia will emerge from her trials the greatest and best country in the Southern Seas. 
I have no wish to take much of a hand in what is going on just now.  Senator Senior  has given us a long rigmarole about what has occurred between himself and an organization in South Australia. The matter with which he has dealt must be settled by those who are concerned. We have practically nothing to do with it. It is to the organization to which he has referred that the honorable senator should direct his complaints. I take it that the Labour party in South Australia will be prepared to deal with them- effectively. The honorable . senator is quite right when he says that it is through trials that nations grow strong. It was through trials that the Labour party grew strong. It is through a trial like the present that the Labour party is going to come again, and be stronger in Australia than ever it has been before. I am not worrying, as I said the other evening, about the future of the Labour party. That is assured. There need not be any pessimism indulged in regarding it. We have gone through fire perhaps too often in some of the States, and certainly in the State from which I come. We have become stronger than ever because of the trials through which' we have had to pass.  Senator Bakhap  has given us some peculiar ideas about the State from which he comes. There must be ail awful lot of scoundrels in Tasmania. I never thought that there were so many in any State of Australia. He has spoken to-night of a lot of wretched scoundrels who would not do certain things. These are statements which the honorable senator should make to the people of Tasmania. Some of us may feel that since, in the opinion of the honorable senator, there is such' a large number of scoundrels in Tasmania, it is not a good place for the people from the mainland to go to. He has told us, not only that he believes in conscription, but has been honest enough to tell us, as he told us before, that he believed in giving conscripts the conscripts' pay. I think ls. a day is the right amount. 
Well, let us admit that it is, the enormous sum of ls. 2d. per day. 
The volunteer soldier in Australia gets a great deal more. Whilst in camp here he gets 5s. a day and everything found. As soon as he goes abroad he gets 6s. a day and everything found, and, in addition,  Ms wife,  if he has one, is given an allowance for maintenance. 
We are not talking about the British volunteer soldier. He has nothing to do with us. The Government' of Great Britain do not fix the wages which' we pay our soldiers in Australia. If we had' offered our soldiers ls. 2d. per day, I am satisfied that not many of them would have volunteered to enlist. But  Senator Bakhap  would have compelled them to serve at this magnificent wage, and he says that then, when they came back, we should be in a position to give them a cheque for £100 each. He would have docked them of 35s. a week so that out of the money saved in that way we might say to them when they came back, " Here is a cheque for £100; you can go away and do what you like.'" It seems to me that the Australian soldier would prefer to be in the position in which he is to-day. Let it not be forgotten that when the referendum was taken it was announced by the Government that, whatever the result of the vote might be, there was to be no interference with the rate of pay which Australian soldiers were receiving. 
The honorable senator has spoken of his going into certain villages in Tasmania, in one of which he said there was not a single virile man left. In another he said there was only one person pf military age, and he had been rejected.  
-r-I am not wondering very much at these statements. I have only to turn to the population statistics of Tasmania to discover that all the young and virile in the population of that State have to go somewhere else to earn a living ? It is no wonder that they are not in the State. How could we expect them to be there? When young men and young women have grown up, and looked round for employment in Tas-  mania, what have they found? Until very lately they found that they had to take wages which, in many cases, would be regarded on the mainland as blackfellow's wages. And the result was that the young people said, " This is no country for us." They had heard that, on the mainland, there was an opportunity to improve themselves. Every time we refer to the statistics, we find that there are less and less people in Tasmania. In 1913, the population was 201,675; in 1914, it was 201,416; while in 1915 it was 201,025. .Here is a State in which the population is decreasing ' all the time. We do not wonder, therefore, at not finding in the State a great many persons' between the ages of twenty-one and thirtyfive years to be drawn upon for military service. 
Men have gone in rather greater proportion from Queensland than from Tasmania, and, as a witness, I quote  Mr. Donald  Mackinnon, who made that statement ip Queensland. 
I have only to say that Queensland has increased in population every year by thousands, although it has in proportion sent considerably more recruits than other States, except Western Australia. I rose, however, to deal with one or two matters, as I had a previous opportunity to speak on the question of recruiting. I wish to refer to the report of the Royal Commissioner on the charges made by  Mr. Gilchrist.  The other day I asked the Government whether on Judge Eagleson 8 report Gilchrist was going to be prosecuted for perjury, and the Minister said that the matter was under consideration. That is the stereotyped reply which is given, and I do not feel like accepting such a reply for very long. I want to know whether anything is going to be done. The other day I picked up a newspaper, and read of a young man in the employ of the Victorian Railway Service who had annexed a few pounds of their revenue. He was arrested, I believe, and punished with a term of imprisonment which I think would be indorsed by practically every honorable senator. But here is a worse offence which has been committed. Here is a case where a man has been able to get hold of the ear of a member, or members, of Parliament, and to have inquiries made into charges at a cost of probably thousands of pounds to the country in an endeavour to defame the character and the ability of men who are employed by the Commonwealth to do its work. He has been able to incur this enormous expense, .and when the Judge makes the statements which he does in the generalremarks at the end of the report, we Have an apparent hesitation as to whether any action should be taken. Let us see what the Judge says. On page 57, this statement occurs - 
In the course of the investigation  Mr. Gilchrist  was allowed to examine all documents which he desired to, and to put in all documents relevant to any of the charges. He was allowed free and unrestricted access to, and examination of, all the files, from which he selected whatever documents he desired. He  accompanied me on my tour of inspection of the western section of the Kalgoorlie to Port Augusta line, ' and had every opportunity afforded him of inspecting the whole of that section, the plant, the engines, and rolling-stock at the depot, and of pointing out whatever he thought fit to me. In other words, he was afforded the most 'ample opportunity of proving all or any of these charges. 
On page 58, the Judge makes .these further statements - 
Out of all the witnesses called there were only three whose testimony- 1 found it impossible to accept, unless and until it had been corroborated. Those witnesses are Henry Chinn, Dane Carrington, and Dudley Lynton. Gilchrist. 
The Judge deals with the two first mentioned witnesses, and then refers to the man who had made the charges - 
In the case of Dudley Lynton Gilchrist, I am satisfied that during the investigation, more especially while giving evidence in Kal- , goorlie, he has repeatedly committed wilful and corrupt perjury of a very flagrant character. But, apart from that, I found it absolutely impossible to place any reliance whatever upon his evidence, for the following reasons: - 
The Judge gives quite a number of reasons^ - 
Where I had an opportunity of examining for myself any place or work referred to by  Mr. Gilchrist  in his evidence, I found that his evidence was incorrect. 
Tho documentary evidence in many cases proved that his evidence was untrue. 
He made statements on oath in a reckless fashion, without having any knowledge as to their truth or otherwise'. 
I do not know that it is necessary to read all the reasons, but the whole thing is summed up by the Judge in the paragraph I read, in which it is . stated that Gilchrist had " repeatedly committed wilful and corrupt perjury of a very flagrant character." Tb seems to me that a man may come along and be able almost to ruin the characters of men who have been in the employ of the Commonwealth or a State for many years, and that nothing apparently is to be done. We have asked the Government whether anything is to be done in this case.- I have not seen this man yet. T do not know him in any way. I am dealing with the matter purely from a public point of view. If a man makes charges of this description, and, after an inquiry is held, we get a report of this nature, not from an ordinary individual, but from a gentleman who has been accustomed to weigh evidence, there is .no action which should be taken by a Government except prosecution if they are going to protect the characters of their officials. There was a number, of people who evidently knew Gilchrist before the inquiry was started. The report of Judge Eagleson ia - dated 13th September, 1916. 'I propose to read a letter showing the estimation in which Gilchrist was held by those with whom he was associated in ' Western Australia a considerable time ago. The letter appeared in a Brisbane newspaper of 22nd April last, and it came from Western Australia to the Clerks Union in Brisbane. It reads as follows: - 
Dear Comrade, - Your wire received, also letter in confirmation. We are immensely gratified to learn that in the extreme part of Australia to our branch is a body of fellowworkers in sympathy with our movements -and ever ready to encourage.  Mr. D.  L. Gilchrist, whom you will recognise is the subject of inquiry at present; made charges against, the administration of the western end of the KalgoorliePort Augusta railway after he had enlisted.  Mr. W.  0. Archibald, late Minister for Homo Affairs, ridiculed the charges made when personally visiting the line here.  Mr. King  O'Malley thereupon appointed, .Gilchrist to the Kalgoorlie office after the 'latter had been refused by the military authorities. The members here decided they would absolutely refuse to' work with Gilchrist, whom they considered to be a pimp and informer, moreover a lying one. The matter then devolved upon  Mr. Darbyshire  (supervising engineer), he having received, a notification to reinstate Gilchrist, to do -which he point-blank refused.  Mr. Darbyshire  then received notice of dismissal, and. the union sent the Minister for Home Affairs an ultimatum, giving him forty-eight hours to reinstate  Mr. Darbyshire,  and remove Gilchrist, or a strike would eventuate on the 15th ult. As you know, the ultimatum was given effect to, and work was not resumed until the 20th ult. In the meantime Gilchrist was transferred to another part of this State, and  Mr. Darbyshire,  together with his second in command  (Mr. Marnie),  reinstated. You see we were conceded all our demands without any victimization, and it is cause for great gratification that in our first fight we won, and probably the first strike of its kind in the world, certainly in Australasia. Wishing your members every success, and hoping to have the pleasure of personally greeting your delegate at conference. - Yours fraternally, T. D. Gar diner, secretary. 
T 'am taking this course because I think it is a public necessity. I do not think that this sort of conduct should be encouraged. If men are permitted . to make reckless charges, and when a report of this character is submitted the Government are not prepared to take action against the offenders, no man in. the employ of the Commonwealth, whatever his professional capacity or character may be, will be safe from attacks of this de scription. I should like to know whether the Government are going to take any action in connexion with this report. Some few weeks ago I asked a question in regard to it, but all I have received by way of reply was an assurance that the matter is ' under consideration. I hope that the Government will make an effort to protect the officers in their employ. 
Undoubtedly it is. The statements which I have read are made in the report of a Judge of the Supreme Court of Victoria, who is used to weighing evidence, ' and who would bereluctant - unless he were very sure of hisground - to make such definite statements as he has made regarding the author of these charges. I come now to another matter. We have been assured that the Government have not received any instructions from the Opposition. I accept that assurance. Apparently, however, the Ministry occupy a position similar to that occupied by a vessel when passing through the doldrums. In such circumstances, a vessel desires to make headway, and in the  case of a sailing ship the entire time of the crew is taken up in endeavouring to , catch any breeze which may be blowing, in. order that it may be assisted to strike the trade winds, so that it may be enabled to continue its voyage. That is the position of the Government in respect of one or two matters in regard to which they have taken action. One of these has relation to the sale of enemy goods. When I was supporting the late Government I was more or less tied down. 
I recognise the difference between being in a branding yard and in an open paddock. The late' Government took certain action in regard' to the sale of enemy goods, probably as the result of panic. My own view is that persons who had purchased .enemy goods prior to the outbreak of war should have been allowed to sell them. But, owing to the action taken by the late Government, many men who had planked down Australian money for enemy goods - were victimized, whereas those who were able to keep those goods on their shelves, are at liberty to-day' to sell them free of restrictions. I think that the recent action of the Government will be appreciated by all those persons who have these goods, and who are now able to sell them without any restriction. The Government have power - and they should exercise that power to the . utmost limit - to prevent alien enemy goods entering Australia. It would have been much better if the late Government had done that instead of taking the action which they did. Then, again, we witnessed a few months ago the spectacle of a Minister making all sorts of charges - charges which practically amounted to corruption, and which certainly made it appear thatcertain officers engaged in carrying out Government works were inefficient. A Royal Commission was appointed to inquire into those charges.But here again a change has come over the spirit of the dream. Since recent political happenings we have had the announcement that- 
It is understood that the restriction of the inquiry will be to matters relating to the Federal Capital, on which evidence 'has been taken for some months past. This, it is expected, will be concluded by Christmas, and  Mr. Blacket,  K.C., will then bring in, as a final finding, what would have been a progress report. The matters to be dispensed with under this arrangement include works connected with the General Post Offices in several of the State capitals, parcels post-offices, the Commonwealth offices, and the Treasury Buildings, Melbourne, &amp;c. 
I wonder what, is responsible' for the change which has occurred in connexion with this inquiry. If the charges made by the Minister were 'justified, there is no reason on earth why the investigation should not proceed. The Minister who made those charges is still on the Treasury bench, and if ever there was a time when his action should be either justified or proved to be without warrant, that time is now. If those who are indirectly supporting the Government have not made any demand in this connexion, it is only another instance of the ship of State passing through the doldrums and having its sails trimmed to catch every passing breeze. Recently a statement by  Mr. Cook  in regard to extravagant expenditure of public money was published in the newspapers.. He said - 
There should be a vigorous pruning of expenditure in all Departments, and public works, such as the East-West railway, the Federal Capital, and the expenditure on the Northern Territory, should, where at all possible, wait until the war is over. The expenditure on the Murray waters scheme was wise. While the Commonwealth was setting an ex ample, he hoped that it would force economy on the States. He said that deliberately, for it was high time it was done. The nonsense that was going on in Queensland, where money which should be devoted to the war was being squandered in butchers' shops and other Socialistic enterprises, should be stopped at once. 
I do not mind that statement. It is just exactly what I should expect to come from the quarter from which it emanated. The Government will find that, in order to please  Mr. Cook, Sir John  Forrest, and others, to whom they are indebted for their political existence, they will have to say, " Yes. We will do exactly what you want." . I wish to set out what are the facts of the case so far as Queensland is concerned, because it seems to me that it would be a good thing if the other States were prepared to follow its example. I know that the Commonwealth Government have declared Epsom salts to be a necessary commodity, but that circumstance has not reduced the cost of living. I have always held that to effectually fix the prices that should obtain in any industry it is necessary for us to embark upon that industry. In my opinion, any enterprise, either State or Commonwealth, is fully justified. Nobody_ has ever heard me protest against the Government fixing the price of wheat or flour. Now, what has been done in Queensland ? It seems to me that the action which has been taken there is one which redounds to . the credit of the Government of that State. In the first place, they have established butchers' shops there. They have not fixed the price of meat; they have simply said, "'We are going to embark upon this business." 
No; but I see certain statements in the press to the effect that that has . been dropped. 
Surely the great State of Western Australia, in the northern part of which there is cattle country that cannot be beaten in any part of Australia, is not going to admit that it is not rich enough to transfer stock from one part to the other, and maintain a system of supplying the public with its own product? 
There may be another change by-and-by in 'Western Australian politics, when we may look to the Labour party to send not only a majority . into the State Parliament, but a pretty big majority into this Parliament, so far as their means will allow. On page 9 of his Budget Statement, the Queensland Treasurer said - 
As a summary of the operations of the several business undertakings may be of interest, I will briefly refer to them. State Butchery; premises for the retail sale of meat were opened as follow :  - Roma-street, 12th November, 1915;Woolloongabba, 2nd June, 1916; Valley, 29th June, 1916. The number of customers served daily has averaged 2,500. 
The balance-sheet of 30th September, 1916, discloses a net. profit of £7,576, made up as follows :  - State' butchers' shops, £2,865; sale of meat to southern- buyers, £4,711; total, £7,576. 
In arriving at the profit on these shops, due provision for rent, rates, and depreciation on plant at the rate of 25 per cent, per annum has been made. 
That is a large amount to put aside for rent, rates, and depreciation of plant. It looks as if they are taking precautions against failure on that score. I have a list issued by one of the 'Government- meat shops in Brisbane, the one near where I live, having obtained it from the manager on 24th November, l916. On 8th December I obtained from the gentleman appointed by the Commonwealth in connexion with food arrangements here figures showing the prices in Melbourne. I specially inquired if the cuts coincided, and was told- that they did. I had previously supplied him with one of our lists, and he. had got his information practically on the same basis. I made sure that the prices I got from him were those paid over the counter. The two lists, which I received within fourteen days of each other, are as follow - 

<graphic href="080332191612142_53_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="080332191612142_53_1.jpg"></graphic>

Before the Queensland Government entered into this enterprise, we were paying 2d. and 3d. a pound more than we are paying in Brisbane to-day. 
Yes; but I am not referring altogether to the question of beef. I do not see that any other State can reduce the price of beef so effectively as Queensland has done; but Queensland is not the home of mutton so much as some of the other States are, yet, since the  establishments of these shops in Brisbane we have been able to obtain mutton at less than Melbourne prices. If other States took the same action, the people throughout Australia would be getting meat at considerably less than most of them are now paying. 
Yes, anda long way more; but, for some time, no other State did so much boiling down of mutton as Queensland did, for extract and other purposes).' Our mutton prices are as cheap as, if not a little cheaper than, in the mutton-producing State of South Australia. I am informed that the Melbourne prices supplied to me were arrived at by the Department getting lists of credit and cash, prices from nearly all the butchers'' shops and averaging them up, for it must be remembered that in some districts asmuch as 2d. and 3d. a pound more is charged . for the same cuts than in other districts. That State enterprise in Queensland has been carried further, and, in all probability, that is the gravamen of the charge being laid against that State at the present, time. It is all very well to talk about fixing prices; but go into the business, produce your own material, work it up yourself, and put it on , the market, and then there will be no question whether the State is able to compete with private enterprise. Realizing they had to depend upon the, people growing beef in Queensland, for the supply of meat necessary for the public, and that some 12,000 tons had been acquired by the Government under an agreement to be delivered as required, the Government decided that the time had arrived to grow their own beef. They had enormous areas of country leased to other people who were making a success of growing meat - for no one will deny that for the last year or two the cattle men have been having a very fair innings. 
No doubt. ' I remember when, for a considerable time, i was very glad to live on bread and treacle, but that was some time ago. It is the same with the cattle men. I remember the time when stock were at a low price? and cattle could have been obtained for from 40s. to SOs. per head,' which would to-day, I suppose, bring from £10 to £11. I am thinking, however, of the stock away back, and which would cost a considerable amount to get to market. The Government have decided to go into this business, and I understand that in some cases the owners of stations that were acquired did not demand cash, but were prepared to take up Government bonds for the country in which they have been interested. The money, therefore, involved in the purchase of such properties would not have been required for war purposes at any rate. On page 12 of the State Treasurer's statement appears the following information : - 
Early in the year the Government decided to enter into the pastoral industry as a business proposition. Up to the present the following properties have been acquired, namely: - 
Mount Hutton, Leichhardt district, comprising an area of 525. square miles, carrying, approximately, 260 horses, 10,243 cattle. The unexpired term of the lease was ten and a half, years. The property was purchased for £73,500, and the purchase included all improvements and plant, valued at £2,322. This holding will ultimately be , subdivided for closer settlement, but will be used as 'a State station until railway communication is completed and subdivisional surveys are made. 
It must be admitted that was not a bad bargain. 
No doubt the honorable senator would; but any one who knows Queensland is aware that Mount Hutton carries one of the bestherds to be found in the western part of that State. The following other particulars were given in the Treasurer's state-, ment: - 
Dillalah, Warrego district, comprising an area of 515 square miles. The stock purchased comprises 160 horses and 4,000 cattle. The price paid was £61,226, which' included £9,265 for 1,090 bullocks purchased in North Queens-' land for Dillalah. The purchase included all improvements and .plant, valued at £23,624. The lease of this property had expired; but,, owing to the suitableness of the country for a depot, it was decided to retain it as a State station. 
Wando Vale, North Kennedy district, comprising Wando Vale, Jamison, Bulgeri, and Kinloch leases, a total area of 778 square miles. The unexpired terms of the leases were 22, 35,. 32, and 32 years respectively. The stock purchased were 350 horses and 10,000 cattle. The property was purchased for £82,000, and the price included all improvements and plant, valued at £5.620. 
Other properties are under offer to the Government, and negotiations for their purchase are proceeding. 
Yes, but there were horses on the property, and I point, out that after the purchase there was- a " bang tail " muster, .with a result that the Government came .out- with about 1,200 head of stock to the good. 
They would not do anything while they were treating with the Government for the station. I have here the Ministerial statement dated 27th September, 1916, and- another statement issued .by the Treasurer last week. I- had intended making- some comments upon it, bub I think I have said enough to make the people of Australia realize that the statements concerning the eis1''penditure of money in Queensland on this project did not place the position quite fairly, and that money which would otherwise have gone into the war was not necessarily directed to the purchase of these properties. At all events, the statement to this effect was probably only partially correct. When we realize thebenefit that is being conferred on the people of Queensland as compared with, the prices that are being . -paid by the. people in the rest of the States, it seems to me that the action of the Queensland Government has been fully justified, and I do not think that that Government will permit interference with their undertakings in the direction of providing meat for their people. 
I think it is an established fact that the whirligig of time makes strange changes in the spheres of human activity ; but the change that has taken place in the Federal arena recently has been so remarkable that one is tempted to ask oneself - 
Do I sleep ? do I dream ? 
Do I wander and doubt? 
Are things what they seem ? 
Or is visions about? 
A few short weeks ago there were in the Federal Parliament but two parties - the. Australian Labour party, intrusted with the government of this country and having a working majority in both Chambers, with, opposite to them, the Australian anti-Labour party. To-day there are three parties on paper. There is still the Australian Labour party. 
-N o, in reality, and as a living entity. 
The Australian Labour party is' not on paper. It is a living organism. 
Then there is a "National" party. 
God knows where it is. 
As I have said, there is a National Labour party and an Australian anti-Labour party. The National party depends wholly and solely for existence on the anti-Labour party. 
A while ago the members of the present so-called National party were members of the Australian 
Labour party, and they met in caucus to consider the financial proposals of the Government; but they stood up for it when the Caucus was attacked by those upon whom they are now relying for their support. We' have been told that this National party also took into consideration proposals to finance this war. Those proposals were previously considered by the Australian Labour party, every member of which at that time had an opportunity of expressing his opinions upon them. 
But the wealth levy of to-day is /different from the proposal as it left the Australian Labour party's Caucus a few weeks ago.. 
No, it was not more hurriedly considered than any previous proposal bearing on finance.Are the Government proposals of to-day the same as those indorsed by the Australian Labour party, and which members of this National party supported when they were members of that party? 
Improvement ! They have been watered down so that the Government could command the -support of their former opponents, who, whilst they criticise vigorously certain acts of the National Government are prepared to give them their wholehearted support until the psychological moment arrives when they hope to come into their own. When the financial proposals of the Australian Labour party were put forward in both Houses they were not very warmly received by at least some of the supporters of the present Government. I refer in particular to one,  Sir John  Forrest. He was alarmed at them. 
He is one of their chief supporters. He was so alarmed at the suggested proposals of the Australian Labour party to in any way conscript wealth, that he, with others, had circulars forwarded to different organizations in Western Australia, in which mention was made of the fact, that three gentlemen were prepared to contribute £100 each per annum for a period of three years, in order to prevent the taxation proposals of the Australian Labour Government being put into operation. When this National Government came into power, the  Age,  in outlining the financial policy of the Government, had a number of double-column cross heads in big bold type. Amongst them were the following: - "War Tax Amended," " Levy on Wealth Lightened," " Contributors, to War Loan Escape."  Sir John  Forrest, in another place, when thesefinancial proposals were submitted by the so-called National Government, said that the alterations proposed by the Treasurer were in the direction desired. Desired by whom? By  Sir John  Forrest and those with whom he is associated. Why were the proposals of the previous Government watered down ? To placate whom? The Australian Labour party? No; but in order that these high-minded gentlemen who put principles, before everything else, could hold on to office and the sweets attached to office. They might say of themselves, in regard to these taxation proposals - 
A marciful Providunce fashioned us holler, 
O' purpose that we might our principles swaller. 
As marking a comparison between the taxation proposals' of the National Government of Australia and those of the Liberal Government in Great Britain, I find in the  Age  of 9th December, threedays after the publication of the National Government's proposals, these cross heads referring to the proposals of  Mr. Lloyd  George's Government - " State Control pf All Industry," "Also of Land and Sea Transport," "Food Prices to be Rigorously Controlled," "All War Profits to go to the State." Let us see what our National Government have done in regard to war profits. The present Treasurer, in making his financial statement in another place, said, referring to the War-time Profits Bill- 
The Bill as originally drafted provided that 50 per cent, of the war profits should be taken; but at a later date, the 27th September, the - ex-Treasurer announced that it was proposed in the second year of the operation of the Act to take 100 per cent, of such profits. In examining this proposal, I have taken into consideration the following factors: - 
Its effect on new businesses particularly; and 
its effect on business and industries generally. 
Were 'these matters . not taken into consideration by the Australian Labour party only a few weeks previously ? Will any honorable senator belonging to the Labour party of, a few weeks ago have the temerity to say in this chamber that, at a properly-assembled meeting of our party, we did. not give full and ample consideration to ' the financial proposals that were foreshadowed when the Australian Labour party held the reins of government ? 
Exactly. 
I do not think there was a dissentient voice or a vote given in opposition to those financial proposals. 
I am not off the track. So far as my memory serves me, there was not a single voice raised at that meeting of the party against the tax proposed on war-time profits. Every member of our party said then, and every man and woman supporting the party today say now, that during the currency of this war huge profits have been made in Australia by a certain section of the community, some of whom have exploited the people to a greater extent during war time than they were able to do during peace time. It is known that immense profits have been made. A perusal of the financial columns of the 'daily newspapers discloses the fact that in many spheres of industrial activity greater profits have been made and higher dividends paid to the shareholders of various businesses than were secured by them during peace times. 
 Senator Guy  has very pertinently reminded me that £3,000,000 was anticipated to be raised by tbis form of taxation. That amount was anticipated to be raised from additional profits made during war time, let me repeat, by gentlemen interested in honorable understandings, in rings, trusts, and combines. If there is anything which our party has stood for in peace time, as well as in war time, it is that the powers of these organizations should be restricted. If they cannot be restricted under the Constitution, at any rate it can be said that during war time the War Precautions Act gives the Government of the day all the powers necessary to prevent the exploitation of the community. The Treasurer said - 
In England there is a similar tax in operation; but there the tax was 50 per cent, in the first year, and60 per cent, in the second year. I should like to submit that the operation of such a . 'tax in an old and established country, where businesses, generally speaking, are of long standing, is not a reliable guide to us in a new country, where businesses and industries are springing into existence almost daily - a condition which it should be our policy to encourage. 
That paragraph is so much piffle, because industries are not springing up daily in Australia in war time, and, there is no business that has come into existence during the currency of this war, and is making huge profits, so far as my knowledge goes. It was with a view to discouraging the old established businesses from continuing to pursue the policy which they have followed in the past that the Labour party decided that the whole of the war-time profits in the second year should be taken . from them. 
There are indications of lots of things. According to the statement of the honorable senator this evening, there is no hope of anything happening unless we immediately conscript a few thousand' men, because otherwise we shall not be able to hold Australia. 
I admit that, there are great opportunities for new and big industries to be established in Australia, but I am one of those who hold that those opportunities should not be made the means, for private enterprise to exploit the community. The Government of the day, if they were anxious to help progress and advance the principles to which we were all pledged a few weeks ago, would launch out and establish those industries as Government enterprises, and any profits made would belong to the whole of the people. 
-Iwill not admit that. All pioneering work in any country with which I am conversant has been done by the Government or by private enterprise subsidized by the Government. Who built the railways and made the roads ? 
That is beside the question. The pioneering work has been done by the Governments of different countries.  Senator Gould  stated, that the Imperial Government did not go as far as was proposed by the Treasurer in 
Tegard to the taxation of war profits. Evidently the honorable senator took the statement of the Treasurer as his guide. It is perfectly true that the taxation in Great Britain was 50 per cent, in the first year and 60 per cent, in the second year. But what does  Mr. Lloyd  George propose to do? He has stated - 
There will also be a large extension of the war profits tax. All profits would be calculated on an average of three years before the war, and all profits in excess of that amount would go to the State. 
Seriator Mullan. - The only fair way of imposing the tax. 
Those are the proposals of a Conservative Government in Great Britain. Yet the National Government in the Commonwealth have watered down these proposals to such an extent that they give satisfaction even to  Sir John  Forrest. 
There is another instance of the influences that are at work in certain directions to cause the Government to do' what even some of its supporters, including  Senator Millen,  do not approve of. I refer to the proposal to free from taxation all contributors to the war loan. On this matter the Treasurer said - 
Clearly they were not to be free from all taxation, but many of the public appear to have been under the impression that the principal would; not be taxed in any way, and the announcement that a levy of  per cent, per annum for three years on war bonds, as well as on ordinary wealth, was to be imposed has unsettled the value of these securities, and in some few instances, so I am advised, investments have gone to other countries because of this proposal. 
Is not that an extraordinary statement to be made by the Treasurer of a National Government - that there are in- Australia men whose patriotism is measured by the amount of interest they can get from their investment, and who are not prepared to put money into the war loan, although the supporters of the Government say the country is in danger, and that our lives and liberties are at stake. These persons say, in effect, that unless they are freed absolutely of all taxation they will invest their money in other lands. Is there no way to prevent those people investing their money abroad? I understood that the War Precautions Act gave the Treasurer absolute power to prevent * anything of that nature happening. I remember that when  Mr. Higgs  was Treasurer more than one deputation waited upon him and requested permission to form companies to engage in. various businesses. These deputationists pointed out that the creation of these new businesses and the "extension of others would be of advantage to Australia, and would increase employment.   Mr. Higgs  told them in plain language that the money was required for war purposes, and that they should put their spare cash into the war loan. But, according to  Mr, Poynton,  unless investors are freed from taxation in regard to future war loans, it is probable that they will make investments abroad. 
When Australian citizens wanted to embark upon new industries here, they were told that it would not be patriotic to do so. Apparently the only way to get at these so-called patriots is to say to them, " Because there is an impression abroad that you were to be freed, from taxation, we will see that so long as we are in power you are the best treated section of the whole community. You will put your money into a gilt-edged security. You will get 4^ per cent, interest upon your investments, and at no time will those investments be taxable." Talk about equality of sacrifice. Can  Senator Bakhap  subscribe to these principles ? Can he honestly support a proposition of this kind, seeing that he is an out-and-out conscriptionist who maintains that the voluntary system is inequitable? 
Then the honorable senator, to be consistent, will not permit future investments in our war loans to be free from taxation? , 
I leave that matter to the honorable senator, and , como now to another one. It is a matter of great moment to every citizen of Austra-Iia.  Senator Bakhap  incidentally referred to it this evening, and in his utterances made some extraordinary statements. In his advocacy of conscription, everything would be all right if power were exercised in the way that he desires. On the 28th October, 1916 - a day which will never . be forgotten in Australia-  ra  referendum was taken.  
There are certain honorable senators who regret that that referendum was ever taken. There are men in this chamber who, as soon as the Referendum Bill was carried, assisted to have the railway stations, the main buildings, and the chief thoroughfares in the capitals of the different Statesplacarded with, big,- and, in some cases, offensive, posters;- and there were gentlemen who supported the passage of the Referendum Bill who declared that those who voted "No" would be helping the enemy. Some of the members of the present Government denounced everybody who was not disposed to vote for conscription. If they werethen of opinion that anybody who held, an opposite view to themselves on theconscription issue was helping Germany,.  they were the chief offenders for having provided the people with an opportunity to do that. 
They branded all the opponents' of conscription as enemies of the Allies' cause. 
It was taken to give them an opportunity of saying either " Yes " or " No " to the question of conscription. If there were not two sides to that question, where was the necessity for the referendum? The recent campaign was a memorable one. 
If the honorable . senator does not desire to hear me speak, he is at liberty to leave the chamber. I do not desire the occupants of the Treasury bench to remain there five minutes. 
I take exception to the statement of the Minister that civil servants will not get their pay unless I cease speaking. This is the, first occasion on which I have spoken since Parliament re-assembled. If I forego my opportunity now, I may not have, another one, because I know that negotiations are well advanced with a view to closing Parliament by Saturday. It is true that if this Bill were permitted to go through, I might be afforded an opportunity of speaking on the Ministerial statement of policy; but as we are told that we will have a Works Bill to-morrow, and then a Bill to. tax entertainments, presumably the debate on the Ministerial statement will go down the list, and as there will be keenness on the part of senators living in the other States to catch their boats and their trains, I shall not have the opportunity of speaking again. 
If the Minister for Defence is tired and weary of his responsibility there is nothing to prevent him going home. 
The referendum campaign was a short and strenuous one that was taken seriously by all sections of the community. The leader of the conscriptionist party, the Prime Minister, addressed many meetings in different parts of Australia, and there is no mistake about the language he employed. But I shall have another opportunity of expressing my opinion on some of the' statements that he made. The Minister for Defence was most pessimistic until he took on a few meetings in Victoria. He went to New South Wales, and when he came back he said that the conscriptionist cause would win by three to one in that State. There was another gentleman in New South Wales - in fact, there was a trinity there, the Prime Minister, the Minister for Defence, and the PostmasterGeneral, and the Postmaster-General made things hum. -I have some of the telegrams that he sent to the National Campaign Council, in Melbourne. I suppose that they were sent at urgent rates. At first he was a bit brief. He did not commit himself too much. The first message published said - 

 Mr. Webster telegraphed that he had spoken at a good meeting at Gunnedah, and. a large meeting at Boggabri, and a record gathering at Narrabri, at which there were 1,600 people present. He had experienced no interruption, and considerable enthusiasm had been shown. 
That was the beginning of his campaign. Then he began to launch out, and the wires began to 'be worked. In the  Age  of the 23rd October, 1916, the following appeared :  - 
Sydney. 
The following telegram has been received by the secretary of the platform committee from the Postmaster-General from West Maitland: - " Addressed 2,000 in Picture Theatre, Cessnock. Spoke for two hours and answered questions for another hour. Splendid hearing. Nailed down " anti " delusions, letting light into dark places. The tide is turning. Civilization will survive. Australia will be there." 
Some of the metaphors in this message are, indeed, gems. Here is another- 
Bumper meeting at Wellington, though abit lively. Mangled Doyle's manifesto. Routed the shirker. Inspired the workers. Opened the eyes of the farmers, and made many converts. 
After that triumphal tour, what was the result? Gwydir spoke; and, in spite of routing the shirker, inspiring the workers, and converting the farmers, the PostmasterGeneral has had ' ' cold feet' ' ' ever since, because of the way in which the electors biffed and banged conscription in that district. He talked of letting the light into dark places. Members of the Ministry seem to have " light " on the brain. When the Prime Minister came back he said, " I see the light ; I will follow it." He saw the light in London long " before he came back to Australia, and he thought he saw it throughout the. whole of the voyage. When he reached Western Australia he saw the conscriptionist lamp. Where? At the Town Hall. Then he came to Adelaide, and he saw the same light. Where? At the Trades Hall? No. 
Did he? He came to Melbourne, and he saw the light at the Melbourne Town Hall. He did not look up towards the Trades Hall, or he would have seen, the anti-conscriptionist light burning much more brilliantly. He imagined that the light he saw in London was shining just as brilliantly in every part of Australia.- ' After he commenced the campaign, the light that he imagined he saw got dimmer and dimmer, and when' the people of Australia had an opportunity of recording their votes on the 28th October they gave  Mr. Hughes  and' his followers the surprise of. their- lives by blowing out the light.  Senator Lynch,  at the Celtic Clubthe other night, said the, referendum was defeated " for the time being." 

 - Senator Lynch is more frank than some men, and so is  Senator Bakhap.  That, is the Ministerial statement, and the echo in regard to the conscriptionist issue. It is to be revived. Those gentlemen are awaiting their opportunity, with those who are supporting them, to conscript the manhood of Australia at the first available opportunity, either by- proclamation, or, if they think the time has arrived, by making another appeal to the people. If they want an appeal to the people here and now, the Australian Labour party will help them to get it.  Senator Bakhap,  in his warm advocacy of conscription, approved of the regulations that were not passed atan Executive meeting in Melbourne, but were afterwards passed at an Executive meeting in Sydney, instructions in anticipation of their gazettal being issued. He went further., and called those who were tq be treated in the way that  Mr. Hughes  saidhe was going to treat them, " scoundrels." I believe, if the honorable senator had had the opportunity, he would have gone further than  Mr. Hughes  proposed to go. I do not often agree with what  Senator Millen  says, but I cheered him the other day when he dealt with those regulations. , 

 Sitting suspended from 12 (midnight) to 1 a.m. (Friday). 

In referring to the regulations which had been disapproved of at an Executive meeting held in. Melbourne, and subsequently approved by a special Executive meeting held in Sydney, I incidentally drew attention to the difference between the views expressed by  Senator Millen  and  Senator Bakhap. Senator Bakhap  not only expressed his warm approval of these regulations, but said that those whom the regulations were intended to deal with were " scoundrels." 
I have never heard any one, either inside or outside this chamber, go so far as  Senator Bakhap  did in stigmatizing as " scoundrels " thousands of Australian-born citizens because they intended to exercise their rights as citizens under the Electoral Act, for which the honorable senator himself voted.  His  leader,  Senator Millen,  recently had a few words to say with respect to these regulations. I had expected from him an 'expression of opinion regarding them, because they were of great importance and of serious moment to Australia and its citizens. It was the first time in the history of Australia that any man had had the temerity to tinker or tamper with the secrecy of the ballot- box. In season and out of season the Labour party have fought for the principle that every person shall be free and unfettered in respect of the vote he feels disposed to cast when called upon to exercise his rights. 
If they were abnormal, there was ample opportunity to deal with these men in the way provided for by machinery at the disposal of the Government, i 
There is no analogy between the case cited by  Senator Bakhap  and that with which I am going to deal. A more damning indictment was never made against a Government than that made by  Senator Millen  in referring to these regulations. According to  Hansard,  he said - 
It seems to me that the action taken by the Prime Minister was so extraordinary, so arbitrary, and so absolutely unreasonable, that if those Ministers who dissented from the regulation had remained in the Government they must have done so at the forfeiture, not only of their own self-respect, but that of the community at large. Apart from the method pursued to get it adopted, the regulation itself was sufficient to have justified the resignations of Ministers. ... I disagree altogether with that regulation. Seeing that it involved a matter of vital public policy, it had no right to be put through the Executive Council in that way. Let there be no mistake about it - it was put through, and it was acted upon. It was only withdrawn, not because of any change of policy on the part of the Government, but because of the fear of the consequences that might follow from giving effect to it. 
We are told that the Prime Minister is a man of great tenacity of purpose, and that when he makes up his mind to do a thing he will do it irrespective of the consequences. He had made up his mind regarding these regulations. He said that he would not only have passed them, but have gazetted them, and have made them operative, had he considered them necessary. Let me show that he did 'consider them so necessary that he did what  Senator Millen  attributed to him, and took an action that was " extraordinary, arbitrary, and absolutely unreasonable." On the 24th October, there was a meeting of the Federal . Executive in Melbourne, at which I understand  Mr. Higgs, Senator Gardiner, Senator Russell,  and also, I believe,  Mr. Jensen  were present. While the Executive was holding' its meeting,  Mr. Garran,  the Solicitor-General, handed  Mr. Higgs  the proposed regulations with a request from the Prime Minister that they should be signed, but not published or notified in the  Gazette  until .  Mr. Hughes  directed. The purpose was to issue them on the morning of the polling as an election surprise. Did not the Prime Minister consider them necessary when he requested  Mr. Higgs  to attack his signature to them ? Because the Ministers assembled at that Executive meeting refused to do what  Mr. Hughes  directed them to do - because they disapproved of the regulations - another meeting convened by the Prime Minister was held in Sydney, at which there was present, I' understand, the Governor-General, -the Prime Minister, and  Mr. Jensen,  who, I have every reason to believe, was present at the first meeting. At that Executive meeting the regulations, which were disapproved in Melbourne, were agreed to. Immediately the other Ministers, who were present at the meeting of the Executive in Melbourne, were acquainted with that fact, they tendered their resignations. Prior to the receipt of the resignations of those Ministers,  Mr. Higgs, Senator Gardiner,  and'  Senator Russell,  every provision had been made by the Prime Minister to have the regulations, gazetted, and instructions issued to all presiding officers throughout the Commonwealth.  Mr. Hughes,  when replying in another place to the charges levelled against his Government, and particularly against himself in respect of these regulations, said - 
If I had thought it right to issue those regulations I would have issued them if every other member of the Cabinet had resigned. I say, therefore, that the statement that the regulations were withdrawn after having been issued because of the resignation of Ministers is inr accurate. 
Why were they withdrawn ? They were considered necessary by the Prime Minister on the 24th October. He then directed that the signature of  Mr. Higgs  should be attached to them. He considered them so important that he did what no other Prime Minister in Australia, or any responsible Minister in the world's dominions had done, I believe - he convened another meeting of a section of his Cabinet to do what seems to me to have been an illegal act. In normal times, it would have been considered such an act that any Government that had attempted it would not have- lived twentyfour hours. It- has been said that the regulations were never issued. That is a mere playing with, words. They were passed in Sydney. I want te emphasize that point as well as the fact that, in my opinion, the only reason for the nongazettal of these regulations, and the issue of instructions under them to the electoral officers in Australia was that three members of  Mr. Hughes'  Cabinet had resigned. When this matter wasfirst referred to some went so far as to say that no instructions were issued to presiding officers in any part of the Commonwealth, but the day before yesterday  Senator McKisso'ck  placed a series of questions on the Senate notice-paper, and one had a direct application to the matter about which I am speaking now. It was to this effect: "Under whose instructions were those telegrams sent?" He was referring, of course, to telegrams respecting instructions to presiding officers. Prior to that we had been told that no instructions had been issued, but  Senator. Russell  replied to  Senator McKissock  in the following manner: - 
The Chief Electoral Officer, acting on a regulation approved by the Executive Council on 27th October- / confirming what I said about the regulations being passed in Sydney - a certified copy of which was forwarded to him by the Attorney-General's Department, issued instructions to the Commonwealth Electoral Officers for the several States for transmission to the Divisional Returning Officers. Those instructions were subsequently cancelled on receipt of an official intimation from the Attorney-General's Department that it had been decided not 'to proceed with the regulation. 
So the instructions were issued, and they were cancelled at the eleventh hour; too late, however, for the presiding officers to do other than put the question provided for under the regulations. That question was asked in certain parts of Australia. 
We know thatMr. Hughes before ever he asked the Executive to consider the regulations said at Albury that those who did not respond to the proclamation would, on the 28th October, get the surprise of their lives. What right had any Prime Minister to talk in that. way? If those men' had done wrong there was a method of dealing with them, but apparently  Mr. Hughes,  and those who supported him, wanted to hold a double-barrelled gun at their heads. , 
In the first place, the Prime Minister and his supporters wanted to strip those men of their citizenship rights, because if those instructions were carried out, and the question was asked, the votes cast by the men concerned were to be quarantined, so to speak, to be dealt with by a- tribunal, and in the event of that tribunal coming to the conclusion that the '-men had wilfully disobeyed the proclamation, they were to be labelled as disloyalists, and their votes ' disallowed. After that, in all probability, they would be proceeded against for having disobeyed the proclamation. When  Senator O'Keefe  was speaking the other night  Senator Pearce  asked him if he believed in the provisions for the absent voters, and in a manner he likened those provisions to the regulations complained of. But the absent voters provision is clear and unmistakable in its terms. It provides that those who have reason to believe they will be absent from Australia before, an election day may have an opportunity of recording their votes in the same way as any other citizen, only by a different method. Their votes are not quarantined, and there is never any doubt about their ballot-papers being counted as other votes are. 
Yes, but that is the only difference, and any one who says that the placing of an absent voter's ballotpaper in an envelope is the same as was proposed under these regulations, is talking so much nonsense. There is as much difference between the two provisions as there is between night and  d&amp;j-.  I am one of those who believe that under jio circumstances should we interfere with the ballot-box. We ought jealously to guard the provisions for the secrecy of the vote of every man and woman. I speak feelingly on this matter, because some years ago I contested an election in this State, at a time when feeling ran very high] There were then three kinds of voters, namely, those who voted on the ratepayers' roll', those who voted on the manhood suffrage roll, and those who voted on the voters' certificate roll. At that time it was difficult for many people to become enrolled, and there was in existence then a law entitled the Purification of Rolls Act, under which interested par- tisans were always actively at work to do what they said was a necessary work hy purifying the rolls. Unfortunately, in this process numbers of men entitled to be on the roll were struck off, and they did not discover this fact until late in the day. Provision was, therefore, made for them to get voters' certificates, and vote in that way. At the election to which I am referring, and at which I was a candidate, a number of men were entitled to the voter's certificate, so the Electoral Department decided to keep the electoral offices open at night for the purpose of granting this privilege. Quite a large army of men, the majority of whom would have cast their votes in my favour, because I was to stand as a Labour candidate, made application for these certificates up till, say, Saturday night; there was a provision in the Act that seven clear days' notice must be given in respect of the replications. The Revision Court was held on the following .Saturday night, but the Presiding Officer maintained that seven clear days' notice had not been given., so he knocked out the whole of the applications, notwithstanding the fact that the electoral offices had been kept open the previous Saturday night for the special purpose of issuing the applications for the certificates. Not satisfied with doing that, further action was taken on election day. I was walking down Swanston-street on the day of polling, when I met a friend, who said to me, " They are carrying on a fine game at the booth in Collins-street ; you ought to stop it." I asked him what he meant, and he replied, " At the. voters' certificate table, where the majority of the; votes, no doubt, will be cast in your favour, there is a man with a camera trying to intimidate voters by taking a snapshot of them as they come to the table." 1 went to the booth and made a complaint about such conduct, but as little or no notice was taken of my representations, accompanied by  Dr. Maloney  I went up to see the Chief Electoral Officer and tell him that certain persons' were violating the Electoral Act. He did not seem disposed to take any action, so  Dr. Maloney  and I got into a cab and went back to the  polling-booth.  Dr. Maloney  asked on whose authority the photographer .was taking snapshots of the voters, and as the man in charge of the camera did not give a satisfactory reply,  Dr. Maloney  seized the camera and smashed it to smithereens. We then journeyed to another polling-booth where the same business was going on, and  Dr.  Maloney destroyed the camera in charge of the man there. Afterwards we went to two other polling-booths where the same gang were at work with their cameras, and altogether that day  Dr. Maloney  smashed up four cameras. We were threatened with all sorts of punishment, but that was the end of' it. If now we permitted any tampering with the ballotbox, or the conduct of elections, we would be encouraging " Tammany Hall " tactics of the worst kind. No matter how honorable members of this Government may Attempt to shelter 'themselves over the matter, they cannot get away from the charge that the Prime Minister did attempt to do something which I am satisfied the majority of the sensible and impartial citizens of the Commonwealth will resent at the first available opportunity. Three "members of the Cabinet got out because of the action by the Prime Minister. Two remained out, and one returned to the Cabinet. 
No ; it was a State election, but I say that if we encouraged any attempt at those practices we should be doing something that would be inimical to the best interests of Australia. As I have said, one member of the Cabinet returned to the Ministry, hut I urge that a wrong cannot be righted by a person who disapproved of that wrong remaining in close company with the honorable gentleman who acted the part of a dictator in matters Australian. 
Two others resigned from the Ministry. 
That I cannot say. I am dealing with events of which we all have knowledge. The Prime Minister stated, in another place that, had he considered it necessary, he would have given effect to his intentions, despite all the Ministers of his Cabinet. Such a man is not, according to  Senator Millen,  worthy to be supported as Leader of the National Government, and, were circumstances slightly different, the party to which  Senator Millen  belongs would have joined with the Australian Labour party in removing the present Government from the Treasury bench.  Senator' Millen's  excuse is- that, choosing the lesser of two evils, he must follow the Prime Minister, but he will do so only' while it suits him. The party to which he belongs is only awaiting a suitable opportunity to get into office. 

 - Senator Millen has shown how strongly he disapproves of the proposed interference with the provisions of the Electoral Act. My party also disapproves of it, and showed its sincerity by moving a motion of want of confidence in the Government. 

 - Mr. Tudor resigned from the Ministry because of his opposition to conscription, before these regulations were mentioned. 
I have the right to criticise a Cabinet Minister. The honorable senator's quarrel is with the central executive of this State. Having gone with two of his ex-colleagues a certain distance, he rejoined a leader who, as  Senator Millen  says, wished to do an extraordinarily arbitrary, ' and unreasonable thing. 
The State executives are the controlling authorities of the Political Labour machine, and until recently no Labour member had a word to say against them ; but I have lately heard them referred to superciliously as juntas. 
They are respected members of the community, and earnest and honest members of political and industrial organizations. We owe our positions in Parliament to the organiza-' tion of Labour. Some honorable senators who are here because of 'the support of organized Labour are now more bitter in their  opposition to it than its direct political opponents.  - 
The honorable senator belonged to the Labour organization for many years. It has been said that these executives are irresponsible, but they are elected by men and women who have put us into the position that we occupy. 
I hope that I shall never get off the track that I have been following for so many years. I have reason to be satisfied with the progress that Labour has made. The State executives are appointed by the Conferences, which are composed of representatives from all parts of the States. Members of them who make mistakes, and forfeit the confidence of organized Labour, soon lose their positions. How can those who today call themselves the members of the " National " party ever hope for the support of the Australian Labour party ? The sneering references to the State executives must embitter feeling. Whatever may be the outcome of the present confusion in Federal politics, I am satisfied that, at the first opportunity, the so-called juntas will exercise such a mighty influence that there will be very little reason for those who have been true to the Labour organizations to fear. The conscription issue has split the party, as other questions have done on former occasions. But, while you may kill an individual politically, you can never kill the Labour movement. The movement is as solid as the rock of Gibraltar, though i it has had its good and its bad times. Sometimes its supporters are disappointed and discouraged, but they are ever full of optimism, and do not lose hope. When they set out to defeat conscription they knew what forces would be arrayed against them ; andI do not know that in the history of the Commonwealth of Australia, Labour has ever had to fight such an uphill contest. Every newspaper, with a few exceptions, placed their columns at the disposal of those who were fighting for conscription. Dp to the time that the anti-conscription movement got some strength and influence, none of the newspapers gave publicity to the meetings and doings in connexion with it. "With the exception of the  Daily Post  in Tasmania,  Barrier Truth  at Broken Hill,  The Worker,  Sydney and Brisbane,  The Labour Call  in Victoria,  The Standard  in Brisbane, the  Daily Herald,  Adelaide, and a few other newspapers whose names do not occur to me, every journal in Australia went " baldheaded " for conscription; and there is no doubt that the advocates of that policy anticipated a veritable triumph. Nothing will convince me- that the conscription of manhood in Australia is a dead issue. I believe that certain members of the Ministry, and a number of gentlemen supporting them, are just as eager for conscripting the manhood of Australia to-day as they were during the campaign. 
If the honorable senator is more eager to-day to conscript our manhood than he was when on the rampage in this and other States, there is no obstacle in the way of going to the country on the issue, though this is about the, last issue that some honorable members in this Parliament desire to go to the country on at the present juncture. 
I have no fear of what may happen in this State. I, and others with me, may." go down," but if the Conscriptionist party does go to the country on the issue, my view is that they will not come back on it. If they do, when the war is over, and they have had their way in conscripting the manhood of Australia, it will be "Good-bye, John " to a number of them at the next election. Evidence is not wanting of the influences at work in the furtherance of conscription. When the Prime Minister was introducing the Referendum Bill, he was asked by  Mr. Cook  what would happen if the majority of the people voted " No," and the reply was tha't we should have to find the men. Later on,  Sir William  Irvine was asked what he would do if the vote were adverse, and he said that he would go on as if nothing had happened. I am not too sure about the attitude of  Senator Millen,  because that gentleman says that we are bound to fail in this war unless we put forth a supreme effort, which, in his opinion, cannot be done under the scheme outlined in the Government statement. 
The honorable senator said that we cannot win the war without a supreme effort, and that that effort cannot be put forth under the Ministerial scheme. On that line of reasoning we are bound to lose this war unless we conscript the manhood of Australia 
The honorable senator said we cannot win this war unless weconscript the manhood of Australia. 
The honorable senator said that we are bound to fail unless we put forth a supreme effort, and that it was hopeless . to expect any great measure of success from the Ministerial scheme. Therefore, on that line of reasoning, we cannot put forth a supreme effort on the voluntary system. 
We have only to do with this Dominion. 
Certainly. 
Then  Senator Millen  "was not addressing his remarks to the scheme here or to any effort put forward in Australia. 
-Am I to take it that the honorable senator was referring to efforts that might and ought to be put forward by Great Britain, Russia, France, Italy, Servia, and Rumania. If so, the honorable senator ought to have said "you," and not "we." 
The words are recorded in  Hansard,  and to please  Senator Keating  I will read them. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.-  I do not know of anything in the Standing Orders to prevent  Senator Findley  from quoting the words he has before him. 
To show that I am not misquoting  Senator Millen,  I should like to read his exact words, which are as follow : - 
We should bring home to our people two things, and this we have failed to do yet. First, instead of saying " We are bound to win," we should bring home to them what I believe to be a simple truth, and that is that we are bound to fail unless we make a further effort. 
The honorable senator was dealing with the Ministerial statement, and also with the failure of the referendum, and he made no reference whatever to the Allies. It will be seen, therefore, that I am not doing the honorable senator an injustice.  Senator Millen.  - You are doing me an injustice if you suppose I intended to imply that Australia can win this war. 
What does the honorable senator mean? 
That argument was 'used, not only by the honorable senator, but by the Prime Minister and  Senator Pearce,  who 'said that our lives and liberties were at stake - that . Germany had her eye on Australia, and that if we lost this war we should be under the heel of the Kaiser. We were told that unless we conscripted a few thousand men we were likely to lose the war and Australia. 
I said, and I repeat, that the proposals of the Government at that time would, if carried into effect, absolutely " bleed Australia white" in ten or twelve months. It meant 32,500 men in September, and 16,500 men each month up to March; and this, in turn, rendered it most probable that the call for married men would come at the beginning of next year. I am informed that a number of men were passed who under no circumstances could be regarded as physically fit for oversea service; and when the proclamation and regulations were issued provision was made for everybody to apply for exemption. When the regulations were being discussed in this Chamber I pointed out that so many provisions were made in the interests of those who desired to apply for exemption that it . would take weeks, and probably months, before all the applications for exemption could be finally dealt with. When the men were called up, we found that almost every one of them applied for exemption. We know how some of the applications were dealt with. It was said that -the interests of the man on the land had to be considered, and we know how some of them were treated in the Courts of this State. Some who asked for exemption on the ground that they had an area under crop were told that the needs of the country were greater than theirs. Some who said that they had a certain number of cows to milk, and needed the labour called up for that purpose, were told -that they should get milking machines. Honorable senators know that the Sydney  Bulletin  has all along been in favour of the conscription of the manhood of Australia, and they may recollect that one of the cartoonists engaged on that paper applied for exemption when he was called up. The case was heard before Mr; Dwyer, and I think that I am rightin saying that  Mr. McLeod,  whose home is in Sydney, came all the way to Melbourne to back up the application made by this man on the ground that he was performing a national service. If a man was to be exempted because he was engaged in drawing cartoons, what about those who were engaged in the production of cereals? I feel certain that in their calmer moments the conscriptionists realized how very difficult was the task set them to find the number asked for by the Imperial Army Council. It was so difficult that, if the attempt had been made to carry it out, I believe that all the available man power of Australia would have been exhausted sooner than we predicted. It was shown that a large percentage of the men called up under the proclamation were medically unfit. I heard a gentleman say that a bigger and a better army could be found in Australia now than the army we have already sent overseas. I have never agreed with that view. I say that the best of Australia's manhood have gone overseas. 
They went of their own free will. 

 - Senator Lynch will have a further opportunity to have a go at the men of whom he has already said very hard things. 
That is not the way in which to help on the recruiting scheme of the Government. 
There may be many who are sick of what  Senator Lynch  has been saying from public platforms. Surely there is in Australia room for a difference of opinion. If  Senator Lynch  had had his way, he would never have given the people an opportunity to express an opinion on the question of conscription. I am satisfied, judging by his recent speeches, that in his heart of hearts the honorable senator is very sorry that the people were appealed to, because, in effect, he says that this time of crisis is not a time in which to submit such a question to the people. 
I said nothing concerning the exemptions beyond calling attention to two, or three cases that were dealt with by the Courts. ' 
I did, because I do not believe in the principle. 
Because  Senator Lynch  supported the Military Service Referendum Bill, and now regrets that the people were given an opportunity to express their opinion. 
Because I am opposed to the conscription of the manhood of Australia. 
It is extraordinary that when the majority differ from some people they are always in the wrong. Every one is out of step but Jock. 
In what way was I wrong. Has  Senator de  Largie never opposed the principle of the referendum? Have other members of the Senate not broken away from the principle? 
Yes, every one, including  Senator de  Largie. 
When the proposal was made for a referendum to embody the Financial Agreement in the Constitution for all time. We all opposed the reference of that proposal to the people because we were opposed to the principle. 
I say that the members of the Labour party opposed the Bill to refer that matter to the people. I am not opposed to the referendum as a principle or a political instrument, but I do not believe that it is a panacea for all political ills- far from it. I felt that conscription was a question upon which the people ought not to be called to give a vote, because I was sure that the anticonscriptionists would not be given a fair deal in their efforts to put their side of the question before the electors. I felt that their hands would be tied. The literature we desired to have distributed throughout Australia was censored to such an extent as not to be worth while circulating. We know of the raids on the  Labour Gall  and on the Trades Hall. We know that these things incensed the people, and we were satisfied that we would not be given a fair opportunity to state our case. Consequently, we did our very best to prevent the passing of the Military Service Referendum Bill. I did not rise this evening to prevent the passage of the Supply Bill, but to make a fejv remarks upon matters which, I think, are of great moment to the people of Australia. I have occupied perhaps a little longer time than I should have done had circumstances been different. I have availed myself of this opportunity to address the Senate, because I know that the present Government, with the assistance of their supporters, are extremely anxious to put up the parliamentary shutters as quickly as possible. I hope that the shutters will not be up for any length of time. They would not be up for any time worth speaking of if I had my way. 
SenatorFINDLEY. - We can exercise certain powers in this Chamber, but Governments are not made and unmade here. It is the duty of Parliament to continue sitting during this critical period of our history. 
Because I never had occasion to speak of them in that way. Events have taken such a turn in this Parliament that, in the interests of the citizens of Australia, it should not' be out of session for any length of time.. The condition of affairs is very different to-day from what it has been during any previous period of the currency of the war. It is on this account that the people of the country are keenly watching events in this Parliament. It is because they do not desire that the destinies of Australia shall be intrusted to a Government, the leader of which has lost the confidence of the majority. The people are with the Australian Labour party in their desire for an early appeal to the electors, in the hope that the political atmosphere may be clarified. 
I do not stand in the way. I will do nothing to keep the present Government in power a day longer than I can help. 
 Senator de  Largie is aware that a motion of noconfidence tabled in another place was defeated. We shall no doubt have several opportunities of challenging the Ministry, and I can assure  Senator de  Largie that they will not be missed, because we are not trifling with this matter at all. It is too serious a matter to trifle with. Our political lives rest with the people, in whom I have every confidence. My motto and guiding principle has always been, "Trust the people, and they will trust you." Once the people lose confidence in a Government or in the leader of a Government, try as they may, that leader or his Government can never secure the trust of the people again. 
I am not. The trust reposed in organized labour is as strong to-day as at any time in the party's history. I know that Labour will organize itself for the next fight, because there will be a mighty issue to settle, and I have no fear as to what the result will be. Some honorable senators may lose the numbers of their mess, but what is that compared with the growth of the Labour movement ? In spite pf the clouds overhanging it to-day, gooddays are coming, and the sooner the people have an opportunity of removing those clouds and clarifying the' atmosphere the better I and others belonging to the Labour party will be pleased. 
During the last twelve hours we have listened to speeches by honorable senators who a few weeks ago sat on this side of the Chamber, but who to-day are sitting in opposition, and I have been amazed to think that such honorable, upright, and innocent gentlemen as they profess to be should ever have had. association with any honorable senator supporting the Government to-day. Their statements have been at once amusing and saddening, because behind all their remarks has been the determination to, by insinuation and direct charge, accuse the men with whom they have been for so many years associated of all the political crimes ever practised by politicians in the past, or capable of being practised in the future. 
That is their attitude. As the honorable senator- interjected to  Senator Findley,  if those who are opposed to the Government are dying for an election fight, as they profess to be they have a splendid chance. The people of Australia are in the right frame of mind to deal with any party responsible for putting the country to the expense of an election at the present time, simply because a certain political section is on the. Treasury benches and another section is kept off them. I have no doubt as to what the verdict of the people will be if the Opposition are game to put their threats into execution and compel Parliament to go to the country. No man who has taken the national stand adopted by myself and others supporting the Government could wish for a better time than the present for such an appeal, and I challenge the Labour Opposition to do their worst, because I know that, if they send us to the country now, they will have a particularly warm reception at the hands of the electors. The speakers from the Opposition seem, to have taken their cue from their leader.  Senator Gardiner  commenced by claiming that events had verified his prophecy that the present Government would purchase the support of the Liberal party by trimming their sails to suit the wishes of that section. He stated that the Government had watered down their financial proposals. In that remark there is a clear innuendo that an understanding has been arrived at between the Government and the Liberal Opposition to revise the financial proposals in exchange for Liberal support. I remind honorable senators that the members of the Labour party never had an opportunity of discussing the proposals of the previous Treasurer. 
There is a new rule in our Caucus, that nothing shall be said as to what takes place at our meet ings. We shall not have anybody running to the newspapers to disclose the secrets of the party. 

 - Mr. Higgs brought his proposals to the party meeting, and told us that he himself had not seen them more than half-an-hour earlier. 
Every man at that party meeting was given freedom to amend the taxation proposals as he pleased, so long as the main principles were not interfered with. 
The proposals were submitted, and every member was given liberty to discuss them on the floor ofParliament, because there was no time to discuss them at the meeting. As regards the charge of watering down the Government's financial proposals, that process would have been attempted by many of us in connexion with  Mr. Higgs'  taxation measures if they had come before this Chamber. 
The Ministerial party consists of honorable men, who will not disclose what was done at our private meetings. 
Our party cannot be called a secret junta, because we do not exercise authority over any other persons but ourselves. We attend to our business, and keep our own counsel, and that is something which was impossible in the caucus of which I was, until recently, a member. My assurance should convince any man whose mind is not blinded by prejudice, or who is not anxious to do an injury to his opponents, that there has been no consultation between the Ministerial party and the Liberal party. The taxation proposals were framed according to the best judgment of the party at present on the Treasury bench. They have been submitted to the people, and are meeting with infinitely greater approval than did the proposals of the previous Treasurer. 
The honorable senator is one of those gentlemen who will use any means to hurl dirty innuendoes against his opponents. I have already stated emphatically that there has been no consultation, arrangement, or understanding between the Government and the Liberal party. 
We do not endeavour to impose our will upon others, except by such action as may be decided upon on the floor of the House. To that course no objection can be taken. 
A good deal has been said in regard to the proposal to relieve war bonds of all taxation. Whatever the strict reading of the Act may be, 90 per cent, of the people who invested in war bonds did so in the belief that those stocks would be free from taxation. There is no doubt in my mind that the taxation of money invested in war bonds is a breach of faith with the people, and that is something against which Parliament should carefully guard. For that reason I approve of the assurance of the Treasurer that no tax will be levied on bonds in the direction indicated by the ex-Treasurer. If such a tax were imposed we should probably have to pay more for our future loans than we would derive from this form of taxation. As soon as the public were made acquainted with the fact that the late Treasurer proposed to levy a tax upon war bonds, their value declined to the extent of the tax. This afternoon we heard a good deal about the loyalty of those persons who would send their money out of the country or invest it in other directions than Government stock, but we know perfectly well that men with money naturally look for the best market in which to invest it, and are anxious to make as much as they can out of their investments. I believe that the effect of such -a tax as that outlined by  Mr. Higgs  would be that the Commonwealth would have to pay more for its loans in the future, and that money would be more difficult to procure.  Senator Gardiner  has complained of the high-handed manner in which men were called away from their businesses under the recent procla mation. But every man who has done anything whatever in connexion with the war has suffered some inconvenience. Thousands of those who volunteered gave up comfortable homes, and I fail to see why men who had businesses which were returning them £10 per week, and who were called upon to enter our military camps for, say, £3 a week, are entitled to any more sympathy than those who volunteered. 
The Government are not shirking the taking of profits made during war time. It is true that they are not taking as much of those profits as the honorable senator would like, but they are nevertheless taking a considerable proportion of them. 
They are. I am satisfied with' the Treasurer's proposal so far as the taxation of war-time profits is concerned. If the whole of these profits were commandeered, there would be no incentive for a man to make any war-time profits. A man will not incur the risk of losses, bad seasons, accidents, &amp;c, and make all the profits thathe can out of his business if he knows that the Government will commandeer them. 
So I am. 
I think that we are conscripting wealth. The damage that would be inflicted upon industries by reason of the Government appropriating practically the whole of a man's working business capital would do more harm than it would do good.  Senator Senior  referred briefly this afternoon to the relations' which exist between the South AustralianLabour party and the Labour members from that State, who are the direct supporters of the Government. I am sorry that he did not go into the matter as fully as he might have done, because there are quite a number of honorable senators who are anxious that the electors should have a thorough knowledge of their position in relation to the various Labour Leagues. However, I do not intend to traverse the same ground again. I wish now to refer to a circular which was recently issued by  Mr. Tudor  for the purpose of contradicting some of the statements contained in it. I understand that it is being sent out to all the Labour Leagues. It is only fair to  Mr. Hughes  that a few of the statements contained in it should be refuted. Paragraph 2 of that circular says - 

 Mr. Hughes branded those advocating and supporting no-conscription, generally, as traitors in the pay of Germany, as enemies of their country, and as being responsible for the' policy of the I.W.W. A leader who would hurl such unfounded charges against his own party was unfit to be a leader. 
I absolutely deny that  Mr. Hughes  did anything of the kind. He did say - and I do not think that honorable senators opposite will deny it - that there were men connected with the. anticonscriptionist movement who deserved to be put in that category. 
He did not.  Mr. Hughes  was particularly careful not to do so. I do not say that I approve of everything that he said during the recent campaign. There are many others who made statements which I do not indorse. But I do not want to see the leader of this great party, the man who has done more towards winning this war than anybody else in the Southern Hemisphere branded in this way by a gentleman who is after his position as Prime Minister.  Mr. Hughes  did not make those statements in regard to members of the Labour party generally. It is well known that German money has been spent in every country in the world. 
The question of prosecutions as far as the interrupting of public meetings is concerned- 
My honorable friend knows perfectly well that there are a thousand and one things which enter into his life every day of the truth of which he is perfectly sure, and yet he cannot prove the truth of them. He knows that in every country in the world it has been proved up to the hilt that German money has been used to engender anger and resentment against Great Britain. Let me quote from the  Herald  of Thursday last, the 7th instant. In it I find the following : - 
London, Wednesday, 3.55 p.m. 
It is reported by the  Giornâle d'ltalia  (Rome) that there were 60,000 German spies in Bucharest when the war broke out. Many were arrested, and others were interned. 
On the morning on which war was declared King Ferdinand ordered the arrest and courtmartial of all the servants at the palace.  Senator Pearce.  - But there are none in Australia. 
No, none in Australia. The same remark is applic- ' able to Greece. The same journal refers to the number of enemy spies in Athens, and to the fact that in Russia, German influence and German money nearly wrecked the Duma owing to a separate peace being practically signed by the Premier, who was a traitor to his country. Here in this one paper are three instances of German influence being at work in. the different countries. 
I am not accusing  Senator McKissock,  or any other honorable senator, of being ''influenced by Germany. Neither did  Mr. Hughes-,  nor any one else. In his own heart the honorable senator knows that there is an undesirable class of persons in this community who will take anybody's money to do anything; and that if there happens to be any German money about they will take it and do anything they are told to do for it. 
There is a good deal known that it would not be wise or prudent to mention here. In this circular  Mr. Tudor  says - 
That the issue of regulations by  Mr. Hughes  on the eve of the polling designed to intimidate voters from exercising the franchise, was a base betrayal of Democracy, which showed him to be unfit to lead a great political party. It has been proved up to the hilt that these regulations were never issued. 
I do believe that the regulations were never issued. , 
I grant that instructions were issued ; but  Mr. Tudor  refers to the issue of " regulations," and not instructions. Why is he not truthful in the statement which he has sent out to the community? It is sent out with the idea of poisoning the minds of the people against the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has admitted that he sent -out instructions in anticipation of the regulations being issued ; but event if they had been issued, what' were they intended Ato  catch ? Simply defaulters. I am as keen as any other honorable senator in i±he matter of preserving the secrecy of the ballot and seeing that no interference with the ballot, good, bad or indifferent, is allowed. But there was too much made of this incident. 
I am npt apologizing for them.  Mr. Hughes  was wrong in issuing them, but no man has ever lived who has not done something wrong, and this was a comparatively small thing. But for the difference in the Labour party, honorable senators would have been defending  Mr. Hughes  against  Senator Millen  on this matter just as strenuously as they possibly could. 
 Mr .  Hughes has not denied the issue of the instructions. He told honorable members in another place that the instructions had been issued. 
I am not the keeper of the consciences of those Ministers. 1^ do not know what I might have done in the same circumstances. 

 - -Mr. Hughes has been accused of saying that the members of the Labour party and those supporting no-conscription were traitors in the_ pay of Germany.  Mr. Hughes  never intended that those remarks should apply to any honest citizen of Australia. He has also been accused by  Mr. Tudor  of saying that the anti-conscriptionists and the rest of them were responsible for the policy of the Industrial Workers of the World. No honorable senator sitting on the opposite benches will say that there is not such an organization as the Industrial Workers of the World, or that its objects' ire not the damaging of property and the injuring of industry. 
Its members are in the Labour party. They have got into various unions, and their influence is being felt in the Labour party. It is up to the organizations, instead of pleading f ot the members of the Industrial Workers of the World,  to take steps to see that these men are expelled from their ranks. This would purify the organizations to the benefit of Australia and the betterment of industry generally. 
In this circular  Mr. Tudor  also claims that  Mr. Hughes  has assumed the  role  of a dictator. That statement is absolutely wrong. I have no more use for a dictator than my friends opposite have, but I have always contended that if there .is any time in the. history of a nation when a dictatorship is the kind of government that is needed, it is during a time of war. But, to my mind,  Mr. Hughes  has not been a dictator. He has simply been a strong man keen on the prosecution of the war, and he may have said things that may have been indiscreet or unwise, but it is most unfair to send out a circular of this kind to the industrialists of Australia. 
It is not true. The sentences are purposely coloured in order to give to the people of Australia the very worst impressions so far as  Mr. Hughes  is concerned, and it is most unfair that any one who aspires to be leader of a party should issue such sentiments. The same sentiments run through the circular that have permeated the speeches delivered in this chamber and elsewhere during this debate. Anything that is wicked and bad can be said about  Mr. Hughes.  Anything that will stick and will possibly make him unpopular among the people outside has been said here and in the circular. Reverting to the question of the regulations, I remind honorable senators that they opened (he door to a great extent to them by the passing of the Military Service Referendum Bill, which, in itself, opened the door to interference with the Electoral Act. Honorable senators agreed to the clause of the Bill which authorized the returning officers to ask certain questions of naturalized British subjects and others. 
Yes, as  Senator Findley  has put it, their votes were to be quarantined. 
Not necessarily. The section provided - 
In addition to the questions prescribed by section 141 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1902-1911, the presiding officer may, either of his own motion, or at the request of a scrutineer, put to any person claiming to vote at the referendum, and shall put to each person who he has reason to believe was born in any country which forms part of the territory of any country with which Great Britain is now at war, the following question :  - 
Are you a naturalized British subject who was born in any country which forms part of the territory of any country with which Great Britain is now at war? 
If any person refuses to answer the question fully, or by his answer shows that he is not entitled to vote at the referendum, his claim to vote shall be rejected 
If any person answers the question in the negative, the presiding officer shall, before permitting him to vote, indorse the ballot-paper with the words " section 9." 
If, in the case of any person enrolled in any proclaimed subdivision, the presiding officer has reason to believe that that person is the son or daughter of a person who was born in any country which forms part of the territory of any country with which Great Britain is now at war, the presiding officer may issue to the person a ballot-paper indorsed with, tha, words " section 9." 
By putting this; provision in the Bill, Parliament deliberately broke the Electoral Act. Even: if the suggested regulations had come down to this Chamber for approval, I' am quite confident that, after the circumstances had been pointed out, we would have agreed that those who had not reported when they were called upon should be questioned just the same as foreignborn subjects. The Prime Minister had considerable justification for issuing such a regulation, because . Parliament had agreed to a similar course being taken. 
I say so still; but Parliament had already agreed to a breach of the Electoral Act. 
It was applied bo many people, but not to many to. whom it should have been applied. Every blunder that has been made during the course of the referendum, every mistake made by an electoral officer, has been laid at the door of the Prime. Minister. 
It is true. Every error made by an electoral officer has been purposely laid at the door of  Mr. Hughes  in connexion with this circular. 
My honorable friend knows that there are electoral officers who are not very familiar with their work. 
I am not as familiar with what the Prime Minister does as the honorable senator seems to be. 
The Prime Minister has been blamed for blunders made even at Exemption Courts. Statements made by magistrates have been quoted by many speakers, and I think at the back of the mind of the members who made the quotations was the thought that this was an innuendo which would stick to the Prime Minister afterwards as the man mainly responsible. I have two instances of what happened in South Australia at Exemption Courts. I do not lay these at the door of the Prime Minister or the Government. It is only fair that the magistrates should take the blame of what they do or say themselves. This is one case - 

 Mr. Herman Homburg, solicitor and exAttomeyGeneral, made an eloquent appeal at Norwood on behalf 'of his younger brother, who acted as the firm's representative at Tanunda in the capacity of auctioneer and estate agent. A document handed to the magistrate showed that the firm managed large estates, and had made advances to farmers on a large scale, the total involved being about £250,000. An exemption was granted on the ground that Homburg was doing work of national importance. 
This young man's work was to stay at home and collect as much money as he could from the farmers, to whom the firm had made loans. 
If every crime connected with the referendum cannot be saddled on to the Prime Minister it will not be  Senator Ready's  fault. This was another case - 
A blacksmith, employed by his father, appeared before the Port Adelaide Court and asked for exemption. He had three brothers, none of whom had enlisted. " If every family were likeyours we would have a lovely war," said the magistrate in allowing fourteen days' exemption. 
That man did not deserve an exemption. In another case the magistrate told a farmer who wanted some men exempt to take his harvest off that he ought to turn his cattle into his crop. That is the kind of thing that was largely responsible for the defeat of the referendum. Conscription would have gone very much nearer being carried if there had been no Exemption Courts, and everybody had been called up.' 
I do not know. 
I think there was a good deal of mismanagement. A hospital ship arrived in Melbourne about a fortnight ago with about 600 people aboard, but only 100 ballot-papers went down to the ship before she left Home. 
Of course, it was the fault of  Mr. Hughes,  who was somewhere in Australia trying to catch up to the fairy tales told by his opponents, and had sent some one to London to do his business for him ! 
I do not suppose the honorable senator knows much more about it than I do, and that is nothing at all. 
I heard some fanciful message which came through from a. well-known legislator warrior stating that. there were so many merinoes, and so many crossbreds. If all the information my honorable friends have to go on is a telegram from such a biased source, they should be ashamed to make use of it. 
The Minister for Defence told the Senate that the vote would not be published. I believed him, and I believe him still. 1 
That is more slinging of mud which the honorable senator thinks will stick. I do not care whether the soldiers' vote was affirmative or negative, although I should certainly prefer it to be affirmative.. I simply say that it has not been published, as the Minister for Defence said it would not be, although anticonscription speakers on public platforms offered to bet their " bottom dollar " that the Prime Minister would publish the results on the Friday before the referendum. That was a wicked insinuation, and honest, honorable men should have nothing to do with it. 
It was "for nothing of the kind. It would have been impossible to publish the result at that time, because votes were taken on board ship and all over the place. The taking of the soldiers' votes went on for weeks, and there was no intention on the part of the Prime Minister- 
I am taking the Prime Minister's word. I do not think he is a liar. I would not have the honorable senator's conscience for all the tea in China. I do not think that he believes anybody's word, and am sorry for any man whose conscience is in so bad a state. ' I have been, ever since the war started, a consistent believer in compulsory service, and a rational method of calling the men to the colours. I have never believed in the four or five sons of the widow going away to the war and the four or five sons of the wealthy man next door staying at home. 
The day that war was declared. 
I did. I declared myself on the question the first time I spoke on the hustings, a day or two after war was declared. When  Mr. Poynton  and I returned from the WestCoast, I stated at Port Lincoln that the voluntary system- was wicked and pernicious, and would lead us into trouble. My declaration of where I was is, therefore, nearly three years old. 
I invite the honorable senator to turn up  Hansard.  I spoke on two occasions in this chamber, and on both made myself perfectly clear.  Senator Ferricks,  who claims to be a Democrat, is the only man in 'the Senate who said he would not abide by the decision of the people if it was in favour of conscription . 
I never heard them. Any man who refuses to comply with the decision of the people cannot claim to be a Democrat. I have the best of reasons for the attitude I have taken. The manifesto issued by  Mr. Fisher  before we went on the hustings last time clearly told the people that we would prosecute the war with all the vigour possible. This was what it said - 
As regards the attitude of Labour towards war, that is easily stated. . . . War is one of -the greatest realities of life, but it must be faced. Our interests and our very existence are bound up with those of the Empire. In time of war, half measures are worse than none. If returned with a majority, we shall pursue with the utmost vigour and determination every course necessary for the defence of the Commonwealth and the Empire in any and every contingency. 
What possibility is not embraced in that declaration? Everything that Australia could do in the defence of the Empire is covered by it. Under it the conscription of wealth, the conscription of men, and of anything else is possible. Like a good many more honorable senators who a few weeks ago opposed conscription, I told the people of Australia at the last general election that they need have no fear in returning the Labour party to power, beeause in this manifesto, signed by its then leader,  Mr. Fisher,  and the secretary of the party,  Mr. Watkins,  it was stated that under a Labour Administration Australia would pursue this war to the last man and the last shilling. No Government could get outside the four corners of that manifesto. I had intended to put into  Hansard  an article by a British Labour leader and writer, which I am sure every honorable senator would be pleased to read. I refer to an article in the  Clarion,  by Robert Blatchford, in which he dealt with compulsion in England and spoke of certain workers who were striking while his sons and those of many others were fighting in the trenches. .At this early hour of the morning, however, I shall not attempt to quote this article, although it is a very valuable one. I propose to deal with some of the public utterances of honorable senators who have been complaining very bitterly during this debate that the. press was closed to them during the referendum campaign. Such a complaint could not apply to the press of South Australia, for the anti-conscriptionists were allowed to publish whatever they desired in the three daily newspapers of Adelaide. I have no wish to see the press suppressed, but a section publishes matter which is neither edifying nor educative to the people. That section of the press ought not to be encouraged. 
No ; I am referring to another section which might well adopt better methods. One could not help being struck by the difference in the opinions expressed by those honorable members of the Federal Parliament who recently returned to Australia after a visit paid to the Old World with the object of ascertaining the facts of the war, and seeing how it was being carried on. It is' rather significant that Labour representatives of States where the Labour executives had not taken action to expel those in favour of conscription spoke in support of compulsory service on their return from the Old Country, whereas the representatives of States where conscriptionists had been expelled by the Labour executives were opposed to compulsory service. That is a somewhat peculiar fact. An honorable member of another place, who, before he went to the Old World, was one of the strongest anticonscriptionists in Australia, came back a strong supporter of compulsory, service. I refer to  Mr. Glynn.  There was no stronger opponent of conscription than he was.  His  whole nature revolted against the principle of conscription, and his opposition to it was lifelong. He went, however, to the front, saw for himself what was being done, and returned to Australia an ardent conscriptionist. He took the platform with the rest of the conscriptionists in South Australia. When a man like  Mr. Glynn  departs, because of what he saw at the front, from what has been the whole course of his life, there must be something more than a mere matter of opinion involved. Every one knows how eloquent  Mr. Glynn  can be. 
I do not know that his politics have varied very much. Twenty years ago he was considered one of the foremost Democrats in South Australia. This is what he said on his return from England, just before the referendum - 
For every man in the trenches two were required behind to carry out the army organization. On the evidence of the men at the Admiralty and the men of the Army, he be- lieved, if they did now bring to bear on. the foe the tremendous might of the British Empire, victory would be much surer than it could otherwise be. There was no question of reinforcements being wanted. Already there had been drafts on the Australian fifth division in England in order to keep up the strength of the Australian forces at the front. He was sure Australia would respond nobly in this grave emergency. 

 Mr. Burchell, a representative of Western Australia, also advocated compulsory service on his return. 
I do not think he did. I have here a statement on the question which was made by  Senator de  Largie on the 23rd October, and a statement as to his attitude towards conscription- was made by  Mr. Burchell  on the same day, so that I do not think there was any delay on his part in declaring himself. Some members, of this Parliament on returning from the recent trip to the Old Country did take a little time to make up their minds as to their attitude towards conscription. I refer to  Mr. Thomas, Mr. Watkins,  and  Senator McDougall.  ( 
He took some little time to make up his mind. 
I have merely pointed out that those who represented States where no pressure was being applied to the Labour party, came back and defended compulsion, while other members representing States where compulsion had been applied - -where they were not free - declared themselves against conscription. We have heard a good deal about the Maltese. The anticonscriptiontionists in South Australia and elsewhere had a great deal to say about  Mr. Hughes  and the millions of Maltese he was bringing to Australia. Every time the tale was told the number of these Maltese was increased. 
We were told that there were 2,000 .employed on the East-west railway - more than the total number of hands working on the line. We were told also that there was a shipload of Maltese off Fremantle, that another vessel with a large number of Maltese on board was lying off the Semaphore, Port Adelaide, and still another at Sydney. All these Maltese, we were informed, were to be landed after the referendum had been taken. 
That is precisely what was proposed from the first. Had the' anti-conscriptionists told the truth they would have informed the people, as I did, that there was a ship coming to Australia with a number of Maltese on board; that  Mr. Hughes  had said that there were over 200 Maltese immigrants on board this vessel, but that they would not be allowed to land. He made that statement early in the campaign, and repeated it again and again. Apparently, it was not seen by the anticonscriptionists, because, as the story was repeated, the number of Maltese was increased until they became as numerous as the sands on the sea shore. 
We will come now to the statement by  Senator Findley,  that these Maltese were allowed to land.. I have in my hand a copy of a press telegram from Sydney, dated 10th November, to the following effect - 
Fifteen Maltese were charged at the Water Police Court this morning with being prohibited immigrants. All were healthy, strong, and clean. Their ages were from 18 to 30 years. Sergeant White said they had been refused a landing from the steamer  Gauge,  but had come ashore on their own account. They would be returned to the ship and sent on. to Noumea. All were discharged. 
This, it appears, is the 15,000,000, or 10,000,000, or'1,000,000, or whatever the number might be, of Maltese that were to be landed in Australia. It turns out that a few of them were brought before the Sydney Water Police Court, charged with being illegally at large. They were returned to their ship, to be sent on to Noumea. 
That is another of those villainous statements that were made during the referendum campaign with the object of discounting the Prime Minister, in spite of his denial, made so often. 
The statements I am making are hurting the honorable gentlemen opposite. They would not be making such a noise if I were not getting under their ribs somewhere. 
It was not censored, so far as I am aware, because the Prime Minister told the people of Australia, when he was advised of the arrival of this ship, that he had cabled to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, asking that no more Maltese should be allowed to come to Australia. There was no secret about the matter. 
SenatorSenior. - Are there not Maltese in the Northern Territory as members of the Labour unions? 
Personally, I have no knowledge whatever of the indention on the part of any person to bring Maltese to this country. 
I have just received from the Minister for Works a return showing the number of Maltese who arrived in Australia during recent years. This shows that, in 1911, 41 landed in Australia; in 1912, 122; in 1913, 193; in 1914, 464; in 1915, 57; and in 1916, to 30th September, a period of nine months, 147 . There were 218 on board the French ship  Gauge,  and they were sent on. 
That telegram has been made use of so often, and on so many platforms, and it has been denied so often, that by this time the facts ought to be known by the people. It is not true, but it was one of the instruments used by the anti-conscriptionists to defeat the referendum. On 8th Decem ber the Prime Minister is reported in an Adelaide paper as follows: - 
In the House of Representatives to-day, the Prime Minister told  Mr. Riley  that a party of 200 Maltese immigrants were refused permission to land in Australia during the month of October. 

 Mr. JosephCook. Why? 
The Prime Minister said eight or nine were being allowed to settle here under special arrangements, but the remainder were being sent back to Malta. 
I understand that the special arrangements were made in the case of the eight or nine, because they had businesses or relatives in Sydney, and thus they were permitted to land. That bogey, like others, has been absolutely destroyed, but during the campaign it won thousands of votes for the anticonscriptionist cause, because, young girls all over the . Commonwealth were told that "Billy" Hughes had these ships full of Maltese waiting to land in Australia as soon as he got our young boys away, and that " Billy " Hughes was going to compel the girls to marry the Maltese for the purpose of breeding cheap labour for "Billy" Hughes and his capitalistic friends. That is a sample of the eloquence and of the arguments used by the anti-conscriptionists during the campaign. 
It appeared in the newspapers. The honorable senator can find it if he likes. 
Yes, I do. 
There is not much fear of the "Dagoes" coming here. The White Australian policy is as safe in the hands of the Government and their supporters as it would be in the hands of the members of the Opposition. It is quite safe with either party. I want to go further into this Maltese question, and read for the information of the Senate a cable received from  Mr. Bonar  Law, because the anticonscriptionists during the campaign were gifted with a very vivid imagination, and worked this bogey for all it was worth. 
So far as I know,there was none; but, of course, my imagination may not be so keen as that of the honorable senator. 
I saw some people who said they saw a copy, but I did not see a copy myself. Now this is what the Secretary of State for the Colonies cabled to the Commonwealth Government on this question under date 22nd October- 
I gather that statements have been made in Australia to the effect that arrangements are in contemplation here for the introduction of coloured or cheap labour into the Commonwealth to take the place of tha men sent to the front. I request that your Government will issue ah immediate and categorical denial. It is absolutely untrue that any such intention or desire exists on the part of  His  Majesty's Government, the Government of India, or the Governments of any of the British Possessions. That was a point-blank denial of any intention on the part of any Government to introduce cheap labour into Australia. I am satisfied that the people will not forget all that has been said on this subject, and that there will be a day of reckoning for those who have been endeavouring to deceive them. Another story toldsby the anti-conscriptionists was to the effect that the French soldiers sent to fight at Salonica were volunteers, and not conscripts. That statement was made use of in this Chamber and outside fora considerable period. Now, this is what the Consul-General for France in Sydney stated in a letter to the press - 
It is being widely circulated that French soldiers are only liable for service in France, and that only volunteers may be used for service abroad. I should be glad if you will kindly allow me to correct this statement through your columns. The French law renders soldiers liable for service in France or anywhere else the interests of their country require them to be sent. 
Our friends are anxious to get the Prime Minister to apologize for those things which they say he said, but they will not apologize for anything that they said. I wish now to follow the example of  "Senator Barnes,  and to put into  Hansard  some recent remarks of anticonscriptionist friends of his. Speaking of the Labour party,  Mr. Anstey  said not long since - 
This party has no argument against conscription. It cannot have any. lt was the first party to make it a party battle-cry to have conscription of men for the defence of our country. I quite agree with the honorable member for Balaclava . when he says that once we admit the fact, and accept the principle of conscription, it is a matter of indifference where the men shall be called upon to fight. It may be a policy of discretion that rather than have the fight round our own doors we should carry it as far as possible away from our own doors. 

 Mr. Anstey and the rest of those who have opposed compulsion were never tired of facing the Prime Minister with a statement that he made before the war, and it is fair that they should be faced with their own statements. I come now, to  Mr. Catts.  He said - 
So far as I am personally concerned, it does not matter whether compulsion is introduced, because when my country is fighting for its existence I am prepared to go wherever I am ordered. 
Where is  Mr. Catts  now?. 
I am sorry if  Mr. Catts  is ill. Since he made the statement I have read, he has gone back on every word of it, and few men during the campaign were more vicious in their remarks than he. He swallowed his own words, and invented a great many for other people. Then this is what  Mr. Finlayson  said - 
The demand for men now is for reinforcements to back up the men at the front, and to assure them that they shall have whatever support is necessary. Upon that point I assure the fight honorable member that my attitude has been, and is now, that we cannot stop. We must see that those men are adequately supported. 
Let me also read this paragraph - 
Before leaving for a tour of the northern towns of Queensland,Mr. Finlayson, M.H.R., stated, " I may not have another opportunity to address my constituents on the Military Service Referendum. I venture to warn the citizens of Australia against two items that I am strongly convinced the Prime Minister will use to secure a majority for the conscription of human life;" 
The items are these - " 1. Two or three days before polling day we will probably have another of those vivid iurid messages from the Right Honorable Lloyd George, which have, since the return of  Mr. 
Hughes to Australia, arrived at eminently suitable moments. 2. At about the same time a heavy casualty list will probably be released." 
The man who is capable of associating  Mr. Lloyd  George with afaked cablegram to the Prime Minister, and of associating the Prime Minister or Minister, for Defence with the issuing of a faked casualty list, or with the holding back of a casualty list for political purposes, is guilty of a wicked falsehood, and should be heartily ashamed of himself. The people of Brisbane, at the next election, will well rid this Parliament of a man who is so evil-minded, and has been so keen to secure the German vote to himself. 
The PRE SIDENT. - A senator is entitled to criticise whomsoever he pleases, including a member of another place, provided that he makes no offensive reflections on that member.  Senator Newland  has referred to the public utterances of certain members, but he has not made any offensive attack upon them. , 
It is for the electors to say who shall occupy seats in Parliament. If  Senator Newland  made the statement attributed to him, I ask him to withdraw it. 
A Colonel Weir, speaking at Adelaide, said there was one division which had never been relieved, which was now reduced to half its strength, and which would have to fight on until every man perished, as it could not get reinforcements. That was not true, and the man who made such a statement ought to be interned. 
Let us see what kind of man it is who, according to  Senator O'Keefe,  ought to be interned. 

 Colonel Weir said he was never more disgusted with anything in his life than when he heard that compulsory service abroad had been turned down, and he believed that the people who voted " No " would live to regret their action. (Applause.) However, the majority of the people seemed to be against conscription, and he really did not know what they were going to do. Australia had earned a name of which she should be proud. The First Division had not been relieved since going to the front, and when he left Belgium it was felt by all that it was proper for that division to be taken out of the trenches and given a long rest. However, unless there- were reinforcements, the First Division would have to go along as best it could. ' He believed that the "No" decision was arrived at by the vote of a lot of people who did not 'think; out the matter. 
The honorable senator must not interrupt a  speaker,  though he may make a personal explanation at the conclusion of a speech. 
Lieutenant-Colonel Dollman said it was almost impossible to conceive the magnitude of the war in France. The casualties were so great that it was imperative for Australia's good name that reinforcements should be continuous. It was seldom that a unit going into action suffered less than 60 per cent., of casualties. When Colonel Weir and he heard, on the transport, of the conscription vote, they felt that they could heap ashes on their heads in misery at the thought that Australia had turned down conscription, and had not played the game as British soldiers and men. 
At another function Colonel Dollman said - 
Through the intervening months Australia's flag had flown honored and sung. Australia had been held up as an object-lesson to the world. The call had not died away yet. England, France, and Belgium were still calling for men. lie believed a member of the State Parliament had said the war was over. Well, the State Constitution said a lunatic 'had no right to a seat in the House. Such men were doing a lot of harm to Australia and their cause. They should think for themselves before they talked such utter rot.. The war was raging - just as furiously as ever. Many kind things had been said of the boys of Unley. Some of them had been left in Gallipoli, others in Egypt and Belgium, and many in France. But he knew that if the people could do more for the Empire they would use their influence to send men to help those already at the front. (Cheers'.) If Australia's effective strength in' the firing line was to be kept up it would be necessary to send more than 10 per cent, reinforcements each month, and the sooner they realized it the better it would be. 
I think those people who voted " No " really did not understand the position. Probably they thought it meant sending men to certain death; but that is not the case. The percentage of deaths is very small, and they would go to fight men who will surrender if the least opportunity is given. Of course there is a danger in the game, but as I have told you, the number of casualties on our side is small compared with the other side's record. More men are wanted. One hears people say there are 4,000,000 in training or reserve in Great Britain, but they forget that a large army has to be ever ready there lest anything should happen which would give the enemy a chance of invading England. 
Now, I should like to tell  Senator O'Keefe  what General Birdwood had to say about this officer who " ought to be interned." In a letter to  Colonel Weir  before he left, General Birdwood said - 
My' Dear Weir, 
In case you should have gone over to England before I get up to our new destination, I write just 'these few line's to wish you goodbye, and to thank you. most sincerely for all the really excellent and good work which you have done for us during these last two years. I know you are not so young as you were, and I do think it has been extremely good of you to have gone through all you have done so whole-heartedly and courageously for the sake of the cause for which we are fighting. I am so thankful, too. that you hove so marvellously got through everything you have done unscathed, for I know you have always been in the thick of the fighting with your men, who have indeed done magnificently; and I am only so sorry to look back on bur losses which have been sustained, and which have been so bravely borne since we landed on the Peninsula. You .will, indeed,- have much to look back upon when you return to Australia, where I most sincerely wish you the very best of good fortune, and where I hope you will be of still further use in the training of troops, who, I fear, we will want out here for many a long day yet. 
Again, all good wishes to you, and my grateful thanks. 
Yours very sincerely, 
B. Birdwood. 
Colonel Weir left Australia with the first contingent, and, although over fifty years of age, went through the whole of the severe training in Egypt, - and was almost the first man ashore at Gallipoli. He led the men up the cliffs, and remained there for many months, finally being carried away on a stretcher. He was then sent to England, and, after his recovery, to Egypt, and he accompanied the First Division on service in France. From the' day he landed in France until the day he left, he performed his duties in the most heroic as well as in the most efficient manner. The troops under his command had no relief. 
My son, who is an officer under  Colonel Weir,  went through the whole campaign with him; and I am told that, from the day they landed in France until a fortnight or three weeks after  Colonel Weir  left the trenches, they were not relieved. Further, out of the whole 10th Battalion there were not twenty left when my son wrote to me.' The others are not by any means all killed, but many are sick in Australia, England, and other places. My son claims that it is time something was done for the battalion, and he tells, me that every " stunt" they make takes one or two more of the old hands out of the ranks. He asks, "What is Australia doing  V  Colonel Weir,  who, on his return, quite indorsed what my son had stated, is a man who, although up in years, and has fought from start to finish; and yet he is told by somebody, who has done little, that he ought to.be interned. Further confirmation of what I have said is furnished by a returned clergyman, the Reverend  Mr. McNichol;  and all who are acquainted with the facts 9840  Supply BUI   [SENATE.] (IVo. 3) 1916-17. know that our Australian boys are being wiped out one by one. It is true, the battalions are not being reduced, but the old hands "go out" at every attack; and after two years' fighting it is time those boys were relieved They have faced the fearful heat of Egypt and the freezing cold of France and Flanders, and should be returned to Australia, to have a spell and recover their nerve. 
I do not say that, but if we bad conscription they would be relieved more frequently. They are in the trenches for days together, and they prefer to fight, not with the British troops, but as an Australian unit; and they will continue to do this until there is not a man left to handle* a rifle. As a matter of fact, we in Australia have every reason to be ashamed of our conduct in not providing regular relief for those boys who have done such excellent service. ' I wished to vindicate the character of Colonel Weir, because I know the man and his work - I know the great care he takes of bis troops, and how he never sacrifices a man unnecessarily, but sets out to do the best he can for the Empire without any effort at the spectacular. Having performed that duty to Colonel Weir I shall not detain the Senate longer. 
I wish to say a few words to make clear one or two matters that have been referred to during the present debate. So -far as the War-time Profits Bill is concerned, the Government will, in my opinion, make a serious mistake if they ask for any more than 50 or 60 per cent, at the outside. If they propose to take the whole of the profits of a business at the end of a year, they will leave no' incentive to the owner to make any profit at all, and if he makes no profit there will be nothing for the Government to take. If they are satisfied with 40 or 50 per cent, the owner will still have an incentive to make as big a profit as possible. With respect to the military service referendum, which has been the cause of so much dissension, especially in this branch of the Legislature, I wish to say that I never advocated conscription. I was always an opponent of the principle until it was impressed upon my mind by the exigencies of the Empire and by the statements of those in charge of affairs in Australia that -the voluntary system had failed, and that some further effort must be made to secure the necessary reinforcements for our boys at the front. I then came to the conclusion that conscription was the only means whereby the necessary reinforcements could be obtained. Having come to that conclusion, I did what I could to induce the people to vote "Yes" on the momentous occasion of the referendum. A majority of the people of Australia turned down the Government's proposal, and, in the circumstances, my present position is perfectly clear. Some honorable senators have said that honorable senators on this side are awaiting the' earliest opportunity to enforce conscription without asking the consent of the people; but, in view of the decision of the people at the referendum, I shall not vote for it until the people have again been asked their opinion and have agreed to consent to it. I do not know that I should have troubled the Senate even to make myself clear on the two matters to which I have referred were it not for the fact that the Leader of the self-appointed Opposition in this Chamber accused me of being impertinent in making certain interjections. I felt and believe now that the honorable senator to whom I refer was doing himself and other members of the Senate a great injustice. He admitted that he accepted the denial of the Leader of the Government and the Leader of the Opposition that no arrangement between them had. been made, and immediately afterwards by innuendo /he said that he did not believe a word of their statements. That is what annoyed me. I could understand the honorable senator saying straight-out that he did not believe the statements of these gentlemen. 
The rules of Parliament do not permit me to say that. They compel me to accept their statements. 
In this connexion  Senator. Ferricks  said that so craven was the Prime Minister in his methods that he even went the length of altering the form of the ballot-paper. He said that the ballot-papers should have been printed in alphabetical order, and that instead "Yes" was printed at the top and "No" at the bottom, although alphabetically N comes before Y. The honorable senator had not even taken the trouble to look up the Act which provided for the taking of the referendum, or he would have known that in that Act the form of the ballot-paper was clearly laid down. 
I am sorry that he did not refer to Adelaide at the same time, because Adelaide is probably suffering more severely than is Melbourne, so far as the beef supply is concerned. 
The taxation proposals of the Government are extremely distasteful to me.  Senator Pearce,  who at one time expressed himself as being in favour of a land tax for Federal revenue purposes, without any exemption at all, has gradually reneged on those principles, and to-day stands forth as a member of a Government which is prepared to move no more in that direction, but to tax a miserable sixpenny ticket for a picture show in order to get revenue. There may be something to be said in these abnormal times in favour of taxing the more costly tickets for amusements, but nothing whatever can be said in Justification of the Government's proposal to levy a tax of 1d. upon a ticket worth only 6d. That tax is a shabby and contemptible way of getting revenue, and is a disgrace to the Government. I do not propose to enter to-night into a discussion of land values taxation, but there is no man in this Chamber who could put this ' question more forcibly and convincingly to the electors than could  Senator Millen.  At one time that honorable gentleman was game to stand up for proposals of this kind in the same way as  Senator Stewart  does, but for a number of years he has been silent on this question, and it will be only a matter of time before he buds forth as a high-revenue tariffist, like  Senator de  Largie. I have no great hope of very much revenue being derived from the so-called tax on war-time profits. I am awaiting developments in that matter, but I doubt very much if the Government will secure anything like the sum -they estimate to get from that source. I doubt if that will prove even a moderately fair way of securing revenue in these times. With regard to the wealth tax, I understand that some objection was raised by certain investors to the proposal recently made that the amounts invested in Commonwealth war loans should be subject to the operations of this tax, and that, in ' consequence of that opposition, the Government have abandoned the proposal to levy even a. nominal tax on such investments. It does seem to be very unfair that a person who may have invested money in a home should be taxed on a 5 per cent, valuation, whereas, if he mortgaged that home and invested the money in the war loan, the whole amount would be exempted from taxation. I believe that if it were known that a war loan was to be subjected to taxation, it would not be supported so willingly, or to such a large extent as it otherwise would be, and that, in the long run, it might be better to exempt war bonds from the operation of the- wealth tax, as they are now exempted from the operation of the income tax. While I am opposed to the idea, it is a wonder to me that the Government do not also find some ways and means of collecting more revenue through the Customs House.  Senator Beady  stated the other night that 90 per cent, of the taxation through that medium falls on the working' people. As they are prepared to make a raid on, the 6d. tickets, I am surprised that they have not gone further in this direction. I do not often advocate anything in the way of retrenchment, because I have an idea that, in the event of retrenchment being effected, the Government will so arrange matters that a considerable number of workmen will be displaced. In the light of the answer given by the Minister for Defence to a question which I put to him yesterday regarding the amount that is being paid annually to the press censors, which constitutes only a very small portion of the total expenditure of the censorship, I think that the Government might very well issue regulations to the newspaper proprietors and printers generally which would entirely obviate the necessity for the employment of censors. 
Exactly. The total cost of the censorship may be fifteen or sixteen times the amount therein set out. The present Government, which governs chiefly by regulations, might very well issue regulations which would entirely obviate the necessity for the employment of censors. Then there is a Commission . which for some months has been inquiring into the administration of affairs at the Federal Capital. It has already cost the Commonwealth £4,000, and it is still sailing merrily ahead. Such an expenditure at the present time ought to at once engage the attention of the Government. I wish now to point out, for the benefit of  Senator Millen  and others who have forgotten their early training, what I regard as a very proper source of revenue. I know that  Senator Stewart  the other evening made a few observations under this heading, and perhaps I may be pardoned for adding to them. I say that a Government which neglects to tax the best of all sources of revenue ought not to receive very much support in this Chamber. It will be remembered that some time ago a  deep-laid scheme on the part of the Government, in connexion with the wealth census cards, was brought before the Senate. An effort was made, in the first place, to prevent the information which is now partially at our .disposal being elicited, and to have a return which I 'desired so prepared that the value of the lands within the Commonwealth, and of the improvements upon them, would be given in a lump sum. With the assistance of  Senator Millen  we succeeded in getting a separation effected between the value of the lands and the value of the improvements upon them. Until then no attempt had been made to ascertain what was the value of the lands of the Commonwealth. The return which was supplied the other day, although only partially complete, shows in a way which ought to appeal to honorable senators, the direction in which additional taxation should be levied. The total unimproved value of the lands of the Commonwealth are set down by the Government Statistician  at £4:4:6,121,056. Like  Senator Stewart,  I do not for a moment believe that the owners of these estates would be prepared to part with their unimproved values for this sum. But, accepting the return as .correct, it would be very much better for the Government to come down to the Senate and invite it to impose a flat rate on the unimproved land values of the Commonwealth, to enable them to overcome their present difficulties. A fiat rate of 3d. in the fi would yield £5,000,000 annually. If it is desired to secure more revenue from the same source, the way to do it is perfectly clear. A flat rate at per £1 value, and without any progressive gradations, would be very easily collected. It would not be difficult for the land-owner to estimate the amount that he would have to pay. Such a tax would be 'much more economically administered, and the position would be more satisfactory in every way. It has been frequently urged that an impost of this character would press harshly upon the poor man. But the poor men of this country own less than £100 worth of' land, and the total value of the land held by persons in this category is only £11,800,000. A tax of 3d. in the £1 would not hurt them. The total value of land in the Commonwealth valued at from £100 to £5,000 is £256,753,547. Under existing conditions the whole of that amount is exempted from taxation.  Now  it is admitted by all who have given attention to this matter that one of the effects of a land tax is to reduce the selling value of large estates and to make it more difficult for their owners to hold on to them. The land comprising such estates is thus brought within the reach of those who desire to; use it for the purposes of settlement. If that be so, the working men of this country, who have not £5,000 with which to speculate in land values, should have the same benefits extended to them. It is only on sections of land worth less than that amount that they can operate. It must be evident, therefore, that the effect of the present exemption is to make it more difficult for the poor man to secure a piece of land at all. This condition of affairs does not exist in Australia alone. It obtains all over the world. Only to-day I read an extract relating to the township of Hamilton, in Scotland. That township is typical of ' many others in Great Britain. In it I find that there are settled 38,000 Scotchmen, with their wives and families, and these people live on 300 acres. The men are chiefly miners, and 27,000 of them live ir. houses of one or two rooms. The Duke of Hamilton's palace stands on pleasure grounds comprising 2,500 acres, and contains about 100 rooms. He has 2,200 acres more than have the 38,000 residents of the township. It is men like the Duke of Hamilton - and there are many of his type in Australia - who should carry the taxation of this country. Land values taxation, imposed in proportion to the values of the estates held, would fall but lightly, on small owners. To-day we have to recognise that the land question is the question which is preventing settlement in Australia. I read recently in a work which was published some years ago a description of the scandalous clearances which took place in the heart of Scotland. -I read of how the Sutherland shire estates were cleared out one after the other. As many as 300 houses were in flames at once. These countrysides are now occupied by sheep and deer. The men who had been prepared to fight for the Empire were evicted from that country many years ago. That is one of  the reasons why Great Britain is in such sore need of men to-day. 
He could get a very good living, very much better than men can get round a township like Hamilton, where 38,000 Scotchmen and their wives and , families are obliged to live on 300 acres, and' pay a pretty stiff rent to the Duke of Hamilton for permission to live there and work in his mine. Hamilton is typical of all the mining districts in that part of the world. It is common knowledge that miners are generally very badly housed, and one has only to visit the south coast of New South Wales to see that it is true. The matter is frequently reported in the press, and I have seen for myself that the houses are not what they ought to be. This state of affairs is due to the fact that much of the land there is owned by the mining companies, who will not permit the miners to get a freehold or even a decent leasehold. 
The houses in Scarborough and Coledale and around that district are anything but satisfactory, because the land is held in what is merely a reproduction of the way in which it is held in Hamilton. It is a scandalous disgrace that working men in this Senate should deliberately close their eyes to such a state of affairs, instead of going to the land-owners of Australia for whose estates the men of this Continent are now fighting, and calling, on them to pay a very large proportion of the cost of the war. Yesterday  Senator Stewart  asked why we have never had an effective Protectionist policy in Australia. There never has been a Protectionist party in power in the Federal or State arenas. There have been make-belief Protectionist Governments which have been really highrevenue Tariff Governments, and they have always brought, forward high revenue Tariffs which fall to the extent of 90 per cent, on the poorest section of the community. They realized that if they cut away the revenue derived through the Customs House they ' would have had to look somewhere else for revenue, and they were afraid to stand up, as  Senator 
Millen used to stand up some years ago, and advocate that the owners of land should pay their fair share of taxation. Victoria has been renowned as a Protectionist State, but because the people in Victoria have never been game enough to stand up for the taxation of the larger estates, the State, like many other States in the Commonwealth, is so honeycombed by these large estates that people find it very difficult to get land on which to settle. 
I will help to get the land tax straight away. The Government propose to get revenue by taxing 6d. picture show tickets, and by imposing a wealth tax, ' which . will tax industries, make it more costly to build, discourage employment, and drive capital out of the country. I will join with any honorable senator in opposing that taxation in order to compel the Government to get a larger proportion of their revenue from the land-owners of Australia who, according to a return which has just been furnished by the Commonwealth Statistician, own unimproved values in land to the extent of £446,000,000. 
I do not support such a proposal. The honorable senator has not heard me support a tax on 3d. tickets or 6d. tickets. 
I do not know about that, but I Ho know that' men who have . enlisted in New South Wales, and have been sent to Victoria, and on some flimsy pretext have failed to pass tests which they had already passed in New South Wales, are . drafted into the Victorian infantry. This is very unsatisfactory and very unfair, but I am not going into that question now. It is very 'unfair to the workmen of Australia that, year in and year out, they return men to this Parliament to look after their interests, yet those men, instead of placing taxation on the shoulders of those who can bear it well, are not even game enough to make any increase in our present imperfect Federal land tax. There is nothing much in a proposal to increase the income tax by 25 per cent. 
It will not trouble me, but it will trouble the thousands of working men who assist in putting the honorable senator here to learn that he is notprepared to do anything in the way of getting homes or cheap land for them. It is up to men who have been returned to this Chamber by the workmen of the country to take the only step that can be taken that will give them relief, and that is to impose a straight-out land values tax. 
During thissitting I have listened to a number of speeches. Some of them have been interesting, and others have been used in erecting the " stonewall " that the Opposition have been building to-night. 
I do not wish to take up much time. I wish to combat one or two statements that have been made. When  Senator Barnes  was speaking I interjected with the object of ascertaining from him whether the Labour executive, which takes upon itself the ordering of members of Parliament as to what they are to do, is instructed by the people who elect itof whether it is acting merely on its own initiative. From my experience an (executive is simply a body elected by a number of larger bodies for the purpose of carrying out the instructions . of those larger bodies or the instructions of the rank and file of the organizations. . 
That is so; but in this case we had an executive which had not been instructed by the people who elected it yet claimed the right to instruct members of Parliament as to what they should do. It claimed that it was empowered to order members of Parliament to do things which they, in seeking election, promised their constituents they would not do, or to order them not to do things which they had promised their constituents they would do.  Senator Barnes  said that Labour has always been against conscription, but, during the present debate, I have heard quite a number of the colleagues of the honorable senator admit in this chamber that they are not against conscription. They say that the Labour party was responsible for having conscription in Australia, and that credit is due to the party for having introduced compulsory service: Most members of the Labour party, until quite recently, claimed to be proud of the fact. Yet when a great crisis arose in our history, and members of Parliament had to make up their minds as to how they should act and vote in regard to a very important question, because some of them decided to do something which some of the executives-not the whole of them - claimed was the wrong attitude for them to adopt, these bodies have asserted the right to ostracise them, expel them from the Labourparty, turn them out of Parliament, and do their utmost to prevent their ever getting back into Parliament again. 
Nothing of the sort. A few men in some of the organizations which elect the executives - speaking on behalf of the organizations - which they have no right to do - have supported some of the executives. But there is not an executive or society in Australia which has dared to take a plebiscite of its members as to whether the attitude of the executives met with their approval. 
SenatorMullan. - You can test that by going into the plebiscite in South Australia, and see how you get on. 
I shall deal with that in a moment. Although one of the planks of the Labour platform is the initiative and referendum, several executives ordered members of this Parliament to oppose the referendum when the measure was before the Senate. In other words, they ordered members of Parliament to distinctly break one of their election pledges. Many members yielded, and, judging by their looks, some of them have been ashamed of themselves ever since, as they ought to be, because a man who has convictions upon a question like conscription and meekly yields his manhood and votes against his own conscience at the dictation of some outside executive for fear of failing to secure re-nomination for a seat in Parliament, ought to be ashamed of himself. I am not surprised that some members of the Senate have been wearing signs of shame on their faces for the last six or eight weeks. Others stoodup to their manhood, claiming the right to decide for themselves on such a question. They said there was nothing in the Labour platform to prevent them from advocating conscription, and no member of the Senate on the other side has yet brought any proof that there is anything in that platform to prevent any member of the Labour party from advocating compulsory service or, at least, advising the people to empower the Government to compel men to go and fight for their country in the only place where there is any fighting to be done.  Senator Mullan  interjected just now about my submitting to a plebiscite. The Labour party is composed of two sections, the industrial and what I may' call the democratic. The industrial, of recent years, has set itself out to control the whole Labour movement, and that is the cause of the present trouble. The Australian  Worker,  the official organ of the Australian Workers Union, contains two letters from Adelaide on the position in South Australia. The first, appearing on page 16 of the issue of Thursday, 9th November, and signed by 0*. E. Baker, president of the Trades and Labour Council of South Australia, was as follows: - 
The special meeting  of  the industrial section of the Labour party was held in  the  Australian Workers Union  rooms  on  that historical  evening of  2nd  November before  the  Labour Council meeting. 
That means that the industrial section had a preliminary meeting of industrialists only, where they fixed up a ticket, and decided that they would all vote on similar lines, in order that the industrial section should entirely control the whole proceedings of the larger bodies - 

 Mr. Lundie was in the chair. At the Labour party conference the industrial section was outpointed in tactics, and again  at the last  monthly meeting of the party in October. 

 Senator Ferricks tried to work a point over there. He and some of his friends tried to get himself appointed as a representative of South Australia on the State Conference of that State. That is what is referred to there - 
The politicians knew more about the gameBut this time the industrialists were organised magnificently. At previous meetings the politicians had talked the business out. This time the industrialists arranged their motionsand picked the movers and seconders for them, while nobody else was permitted to speak. That is the party that has been howling about freedom of speech - 
To a man - aye, and to a woman too - this arrangement was loyally carried out. Men and women, despite the tense feeling of the past weeks, controlled themselves admirably. Victory, after victory was recorded on the minute-book of the party. It was the outraged feelings of the rank and file taking toll of the men who had stigmatized them as traitors, pro-Germans, and who circulated literature that disgraced those who were responsible for it. 
It was decided to take plebiscites and details are given by the writer, who then goes on - 
None of the politicians spoke - 
Because they were not allowed. There were between twenty and thirty politicians there' who desired to explain to the Labour party the reasons which animated them in advocating a "Yes" vote, but the industrialists had packed the meeting in such a manner that not one of them was allowed to speak. Apparently  Senator McKissock  approves of that, yet he has been one of the loudest howlers for freedom of speech. What many of the freedom-of -speech advocates really wanted was licence to make revolutionary speeches. We learn that - 
After two speakers had put the case for the politicians the industrialists moved the closure. 
Instead of the executive being allowed to control the taking of the plebiscite, it is stated that - 

 Mr. Jesse Smith, assistant secretary of the Australian Workers Union, was unanimously elected returning officer after some discussion. The  chairman  ruled that the executive should control the ballot, but the meeting thought otherwise, and the industrialist nominee was given a walk-over. 
The industrialists demanded an immediate plebiscite for Federal as well as State members, although the State Parliament does not expire until March, 1918, because they thought there was a strong feeling among the rank and file against those members of Parliament who  had advised the people to vote "Yes." On page 20 of the issue of Thursday, 16th; appears another South. Australian letter headed " The Conscriptionist' s Quandary." It is unsigned, and is a complete answer to  Senator Mullan's  interjection. It states - 
The action of the industrialists in going for the plebiscite will rank as one of the shrewdest political moves ever made. The politician was never in such a cleft stick before. If he runs he commits certain political suicide. They admit that. If he docs not run he cannot say that he was victimized. They wanted to be expelled. They would then have been able to pose as martyrs. 

 Senator Mullan will now know why I could not accept his challenge, and offer myself to the plebiscite, when the official head of the industrial movement over there outlines the position in that way. 
I have never called them a junta yet. Another statement repeatedly made by nearly every member of the new, Opposition, to distinguish them from the old Opposition, is that recruiting has been made difficult by the people who advocated " Yes." I give that statement an emphatic denial. The position has been rendered most difficult by those who, by misrepresentation invited the people to vote- against conscription. 

 Sitting suspended from 5.S0 to 6.15 a.m. (Friday).- 

It is not correct that those who advocated conscription have made future recruiting difficult. The position has been made difficult by those' members of Parliament who, owing to want of courage, spoke and acted against their own convictions, and deliberately misled a large number of the people in order that they might be sure of. being selected to contest a seat in Parliament once more. And yet we hear these honorable senators claiming, one after another, that they are just as anxious as any one could possibly be that we should win this war. I shall make a short quotation from a speech by  Senator Watson,  which is typical of the claims made by honorable senators -on the other side. He said - 
The true patriot will be the man who refused to advocate a policy of conscription, but who is yet prepared to appeal to 'the people to voluntarily offer themselves for service. I am prepared to play my part now as formerly. I yield to no man in my love of country and the Empire to which I belong. 
That is an illustration of the trend of the speeches now being made by honorable senators who persuaded the people to withhold from the Government the only power that would enable them to do their duty to the Empire, and to assist in winning the war in the shortest time. What was the burthen of their song during the referendum debate in this Parliament? They said that Australia had done, enough; that we could not spare any more men. 
I believe the hon- orable senator did, or, if he did not, a number of his colleagues made the statement. 
 Senator Barnes  for. one said that we could not afford the expense of the war.  Senator Findley  and others declared further that the war was already won, and that, therefore, there was no necessity to do more. What sort of a reception are these honorable senators likely to receive when they go on the platform and advise ouryoung men to enlist? Can they do so with any hope of success in view of statements of this kind that they have made, hot only in this Parliament, but on every platform from which they have spoken. They know they cannot hope to do anything. Their professions of loyalty to the Empire, and of a desire -to do everything to help the Mother Country are mere hollow pretensions, and mean nothing. I would remind these honorable senators who are throwing all the blame on  Mr. Hughes  - who fear that they have made a mistake, and that, although they have secured their selection, the electors themselves may turn them down - that they subscribed to a manifesto issued by  Mr. Fisher,  il--  Prime Minister of Australia, one short paragraph of which reads as follows : - 
As regards the attitude of Labour towards war, that is easily stated. War is one of the greatest realities of life, and it must be faced. Our interest and our very existence are bound up with those of the Empire. In time of war, half measures are worse than none. If returned with a majority we shall pursue with the utmost vigour and determination every course necessary for the defence of the Commonwealth and the Empire in any and every contingency. Regarding as we do, such a policy as the first duty of Government at this juncture, the electors may give their support to the Labour party with the utmost confidence. 
Tha electors believed this manifesto, and trusted the Labour party.  Senator McKissock  and others who subscribed to this manifesto practically said that half measures in connexion with the war were worse than useless. But as soon as we are asked by the Mother Country to do something, to make some sacrifice, they say "No! We have done enough." " We cannot do any more," they said, and they persuaded a majority of the people to their way of thinking. 
Australia has done very well ; but, until she has done all that she can, she will not have carried out the promise made by  Mr. Fisher.  Every one approved of his promise on behalf of Australia to give the last man and. the last shilling. That, of course, was a figure of speech. It did not mean that we w'ould actually give the. last man or spend the last . shilling, but. it did mean that Australia would spare no effort and fear no sacrifice necessary to bring the war to a successful conclusion. Honorable senators who no longer follow  Mr. Hughes  have stopped half way, and have prevented Australia from carrying out the promise made on her behalf. 
I shall tell the honorable member presently. .  Senator Ready  asked just now by whom these statements had. been made. They were so general that I need not trouble to particularize. Quite recently, however,  Senator Ready,  in this Chamber, expressed great indignation at the action of the Ministry in hanging on, as he said, to the Treasury bench, depending for their existence upon a party whose "principles are absolutely antagonistic to their own. He waxed very indignant, and said it was something of which the Ministry ought to he heartily ashamed. He went on to say- 
The reason we find ourselves in opposition is because we have been true to the pledges we have made to the people who sent us into Parliament. 
Has he been true to the pledge that the Labour party would, do everything possible to win the war? As a matter of fact, he has been instrumental in preventing the people of Australia from fulfilling that pledge which he, as a member of the Labour party, gave to the electors. 
 Senator Ready  said, further - 
We elected to sacrifice whatever emoluments we might have been receiving for the sake of our principles. 
This comes with an ill grace from  Senator Ready,  . who hung on to the salary of his Whipship under the Hughes Government all the time that he was away in Tasmania publicly denouncing  Mr. Hughes.  During the whole of that time he was in  Mr. Hughes'  pay. He was taking his money,' while at the same time endeavouring to condemn him throughout Tasmania. 
And yet this honorable senator condemns the Government for having to depend upon the Opposition for support. There may be some room for condemning a Government which relies for its existence on the support of the party in opposition. In ordinary times I should be alongside  Senator Ready  denouncing any Government who did that; but the honorable senator seems to be unable to realize that we are at war - that things are totally different now, and that there should be no party and no party politics in the Federal Parliament to-day. Until the war is over all party feeling should be dropped, and all parties should combine to win the war. These honorable senators boast about their principles and the sacrifices they have made, although they have not given up what they should have given up had they acted decently. I was asked just now- something in regard to war profits.  Senator Millen  put the case very clearly when he said, " If the Government are going to take the whole of the excess war profits there will be none." You might just as well say you are going to take excess wages. There are tens of thousands -of piece-workers who, because of the war, are receiving higher wages. 
If the Government proposed to take all the excess wages because during a war workmen were getting higher . rates of pay, could it be expected that the workers would earn any extra wages? Certainly not. 
I am not prepared to say. that 6 per cent, is enough for all businesses, though I am willing to admit that it is a fair return for some, and can conceive that a profit of even 15 or 25 per cent, would not be excessive for some undertakings owing to heavy expenditure incurred in a time like this. But the point I am making is that a workman would refuse to do extra work to get a higher rate of wages if the Government intended to take all his excess pay ; and likewise a business man. would not put extra pressure on his plant in order to make excess profits if the whole of those excess profits were to be taken from him. It is not in human nature to expect that. But I suggest to honorable senators on both sides of this Chamber that an effort might be made to induce the workmen of Australia to understand that because, we are at war it is their duty, if they are really patriotic and understand their obligations, to work for rather a longer period each day. during, the war in order, that there may be greater production. 
At a time like this. I think it is the duty of every one to do something extra to increase the production of wealth. Pf every one would agree to work an extra hour per day for the same wages if devoted to that purpose, what a grand contribution that would be towards winning the war. 
Order ! The honorable the Minister must, withdraw that statement. 
Order ! The Minister must withdraw unreservedly. 
SenatorSTORY. - Well, what 'has  Senator Ferricks  ever done for the industrial movement in Australia ? 
SenatorMcKissock.-Well, we will  go  down with our colours flying, at any rate. 
I do not propose to unduly prolong this debate, and the remarks which I shall make will be mainly directed towards the financial proposals of the Government. However, before proceeding to deal with that aspect of the question, I should like to say that one of the mysteries surrounding the referendum campaign which was so successfully concluded from the point of view of the Australian Labour party, was the extraordinary "No" vote obtained in South Australia, where we had the press, the pulpit, and the platform against us. There was only one Federal member fighting there on behalf of the " Noes." But having heard the wail of Senators Story, Newland, Senior, and  Shannon, and their rehash of the speeches that they; made during the campaign, I now understand why the electors of the State so decisively voted " No."  Senator Story  has said that not an executive in Australia is game to put this question toits members by means of a plebiscite, but in his own State it was recently proposed by the executive to invite nominations for candidates to fill vacancies in the Senate and other parliamentary positions. Why did not  Senator Story  try conclusions with them then ? It was because he knew that the Labourites of South Australia would have turned him down. He said that there should be no party during the war, and repeated the old myth about the last man and the last shilling. Why did he not mention the other part of '  Mr. .  Fisher's programme? Prior to the general election, a section of the Labour party held out the olive branch to the Cook party,, and offered a cessation of hostilities during the war. That offer was declined, and the Labour party went to the country intent on doing everything it could for the winning of the war, but also determined to secure as much as it could of the Labour programme.  Senator Newland  made a- great mouthful of the statements about the Maltese. No one ever so polluted the public life of Australia as the Prime Minister did in connexion with that matter. The censorship was prostituted by the Government in connexion with it.  Senator Newland  would have us believe that there was no censorship in regard to the Maltese question. Every one knows that Maltese were , being imported into Australia, and  Mr. Hughes  felt that it would damage his prospects to let the people know the number of arrivals, or anticipated arrivals. Consequently, he used the censorship to prevent the publication of news about them. . At the height of the dispute the military censor in Queensland, no doubt acting under the instructions of  Mr. Hughes,  sent the following note to every newspaper in the State :  - 
Commonwealth Military Forces, 1st Military District, 
Censorship Office, Brisbane, 13th October, 1916. 
Memorandum for the Editor. 
I have to advise you. that the following instructions have been received from the Deputy Chief Censor, and to request your compliance with the same: - "Prohibit any reference to the arrival or expected arrival of Maltese in Australia." 
C. Coxon, Captain, 
Censor, 1st Military District. 
There was no reason for withholding the truth, and by suppressing it the Government -was mainly responsible for the rumours that were circulated. Had every one been told the facts, there would have been no ground for these rumours, whereby the Government suffered. 
At a time when the manhood of Australia are being asked to fight for the Empire at the other end of the world, it is not a fair thing to fill their places with men physically fit, brought from a country within a few day's sail of the firing line. 
I am more concerned about the welfare of Australians than about that of Maltese. I will look after Australians, and allow the honorable member to look after Maltese. 
I wish to say a word or two regarding the attempt of the Government to suppress information' about the yoting of the Anzacs. 
If the honorable senator is.notcareful, I will hurl at him that terrible threat of  Senator Lynch,  " I will deal with you." 
Surely there never was a time when any one wanting to fight had more opportunity for doing so. My honorable friend should have stopped on the other sfde of the world and taken part in the fighting in the trenches. Information regarding the voting of the Anzacs has been suppressed for political reasons, and, therefore, we resent its suppression. Here is my proof. The vote was taken on the 28th October, and the regulation prohibiting the publication of the Anzac voting came out on the 3rd November, when the result would be sufficiently plain. It was cowardly to prevent Australia from knowing how the boys at the' front voted. They have won imperishable fame on Gallipoli ; they have immortalized themselves in France, but generations yet unborn will revere and honour these heroes who in the face of death voted . against conscription and for a free Australia. The Government, for mean, petty, selfish, political reasons, suppressed all news regarding that voting. 
The honorable senator, speaking from the public platform during the campaign, denounced as wasters, cold-footers, shirkers, and traitors, all who should vote " No," and the 
Government now feel that they cannot afford .to let the country- know how many of our soldiers they have-thus insulted. Are the men in the trenches who have voted "No" shirkers, or disloyal, or in receipt of German gold? These things are burning into the soul of  Senator Lynch..  These are the facts which prevent the Government, revealing, as they will be compelled to do before long, how the Anzacsvoted. 
I am "full up" of- those men in the Senate who are all howling, for the blood of. other men. I should here like to quote that celebrated statesman, Edmund Burke, because the quotation very aptly applies to  Senator Lynch; Senator Bakhap,  and others who ceaselessly howl here for any .blood but their own. Burke said - 
I 'cannot conceive any existence under heaven which is more truly odious-and disgusting than an impotent, helpless creature, without civil wisdom or military skill, bloated with pride and arrogance, calling for battles which he is not to fight. 
The honorable senator can apply it to whom he likes - including himself. As- to the Supply Bill proper, the Government are, of course, anxious to have an adjournment, so that they may, as in the past, proceed to govern the country by regulations - a. form of government to which I strongly object being' exercised by this or any other Administration. We have a Parliament designed for the government of the people of Australia, and they ought  to  be governed  by  that Parliament alone. No Government - especially when  we find it  possible for two members  of it to  issue regulations - should  be  allowed  to  rule a country  in  that fashion; and the only way  to  stop  it  is for Parliament  to  deny the  Government  - especially a Government that cannot  be  trusted - from going, into a long recess  on  a motion  for  adjournment. A unique position  has  resulted from  the  referendum vote  and the  mutiny  of  Mr. Hughes  and  a portion  of  his late crew. This  has led to the  establishment  of  a  new  Government,  or,  rather,  the old  Government under  new  conditions. The position is that the present Government have not a quorum in the other House, where Governments are made and unmade, and they are to-day at the mercy of their erstwhile opponents. The policy of every Government must be dictated by a majority of its followers. It is; axiomatic in politics that the policy of a Government is coloured by the majority which supports- it. It, therefore, follows, as the night the day, that the policy of the present Government will not be the policy of  Mr.. Hughes  and, the few men who, with him, left the Australian Labour party, but will be the policy of the men behind  Mr. Cook: Senator Lynch,  who, politically speaking, has hounded  Sir John  Forrest from one end of Western Australia to the other, has now to " eat out of the hand " of that right honorable gentleman. This is a nice spectacle for the electors of Australia ! Here we have a1 sturdy .Democrat, who, a few months ago, was utterly opposed to  Sir J  ohn Forrest, now humbly, meekly, and obsequiously " eating out of his hand." It is to be deplored that a Government; or' any member of1 a Government, should come to such a pass. 
 That has been denied by the Liberals - why assert it now. 

 Sir, we. are passing through the greatest crisis in OU] ' history- 
I understand the honorable senator to say that he is quoting from  Hansard  something said in another place. Under the Standing. Orders that is not' permissible. Standing order' 411 provides - 
No senator shall allude to any 'debate of the current session in the House of Representa.tives, or to any measure impending therein. 
-I should not have known that the honorable senator was going: to- quote from  Mansard  had. he not informed me of the fact.. , 
The honorable senator will be in order in quoting  Hansard  if it refers to debates . in the Senate. 

 Sir, we are passing through the greatest crisis in our history. Our national existence, our liberties, arc at stake. There rests upon every man an obligation to do his duty in the spirit that befits free men. The Government asks men to make a great sacrifice; it asks them to risk their lives in order to save their country.  Sir, I  believe that they are prepared to make this sacrifice. But the country must in its turn prove itself worthy of such men. There must be, as far as humanly possible, equality of sacrifice. Wealth has its duties; it owes all it has to the State, and must be prepared, if necessary, to sacrifice that all to the State. Many wealthy men have responded nobly to the call of duty; others have not. But they cannot be allowed thus to evade their responsibilities. 
All other considerations must be swept aside; one great principle must now govern our every action. Whatever is necessary for the salvation of the country must be done; and since we are calling upon men to sacrifice their lives, we ought not, and shall not, hesitate to compel men to sacrifice their wealth. 
That was the financial policy of Hughes, the Labourite - of Hughes, the so-called Nationalist! Let me quote an incident to show the price which the people of this country are paying in order to keep the present Government in power - in order to keep Hughes and his fragment or remnant of a party in power. The Labour party, before the destruction of the Hughes Government - while  Mr. Hughes  was. the head of that party - agreed to the imposition of a tax on war profits amounting to 50 per cent, for 1915-16, and . 100 per cent, for 1916-17. What is the concession which the present Government have had to make in order to maintain its political existence? They have had to forego £400,000 of this tax for 1915-16, and £1,100,000 for 1916-17, or a total of £1,500,000; and to that extent the exploiters of the public have been relieved of taxation which will have to be borne by the poorer classes of the -community. 
Only twelve months ago it was understood in this Parliament that war bonds were to be free from taxation. We had a long debate upon the matter. Two months ago  Mr. Hughes  declared that they were not to be free from taxation. One month ago he again said that they were to be free. I say that in the interests of the financial stability of the Commonwealth this financial jugglery should cease. It has been said that the financially fit in the Commonwealth are making great sacrifices. I do not think that file financially fit have yet been called upon to do anything like their proper share. If we consider all the direct taxes to be collected this year we shall find that" "they, are estimated to produce an aggregate revenue of £7,300,000. But our interest bill for the same financial year will amount to £8,162,000, or £862,000 more than we shall receive from the total direct taxation of the country. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
Second Reading. 
Motion(by  Senator Pearce)  proposed - 
That this Bill be . now read a second time. 
In view of the fact that in this measure the Government seek a grant of three months' supply, it is one whieh should be very closely scrutinized. We know that if the Bill passes this Chamber without any request, Parliament will not re-assemble until March of next year. I will ask my leader, who has just entered the Chamber, to make a statement indicative of our attitude towards the Bill. 
.- I shall follow the example that I set upon the motion for the first reading of the measure by being as brief as the importance of this subject permits me to be. We shall not oppose the second reading of the Bill, but in Committee I shall move a request for an amendment to reduce the grant of Supplyfrom £3,293,290 to £2,195,527. The latter sum is two-thirds of the former, and will consequently cover two months' Supply. I ask the Government not to regard my request as an act of war against them, but as a friendly intimation that we are willing, in view of the Christmas season which is upon us, to grant them two months' Supply, notwithstanding that they have not a sufficient following of their own", in either House of this Parliament, to constitute a quorum. . 
Before the honorable senator does anything rash, may I suggest for his consideration two facts. The first is that the Governvernment have appealed to the members of this Parliament, and to the people generally, to assist them in launching a recruiting scheme in order that by voluntary enlistment we may provide the . necessary reinforcements for our troops at the front: The basic idea underlying that scheme is that Federal members may be afforded an opportunity to visit their constituencies and assist in the organization of the requisite committees. Now, the Government take the view that three1 months is none too long to permit of that being done, especially at this, time of the year, when we have to recollect that nearly three weeks of the period will be holiday-time, during which little public work of that kind can be undertaken. I ask honorable senators, in all friendliness, to consider this view, and to say whether we are unreasonable in seeking three . months' Supply. I wish' also to direct attention to anotherfact in connexion with this Bill. The Government do not propose that Parliamentshall be definitely adjourned for three months. The usual course will be followed, and the Senate will adjourn until some date to be fixed by the  President. 
Undoubtedly, the Government would indicate the date upon which they desire Parliament to be called together. I am sorry that honorable senators are disposed to treat my remarks in a hostile spirit. I am putting the position in all friendliness. Further, we never know from time to time what events may transpire which may render it necessary to call Parliament together at any moment. It may be' found necessary for the Legislature to re-assemble during the first week of; the New Year, and if we fix a definite date, as suggested 'by SenatorNeedham, our hands will be tied. 
I cannot please the honorable senator anyway.  I do ask  Senator Gardiner,  before taking the action that he has foreshadowed, to consider the points which I have mentioned. The grant of Supply for three months does not mean an adjournment for three months in any case, and it will still be open to us to call Parliament together at any time that course may be rendered necessary. 
Yes. Half of the present month has gone, and the other half will be devoted to holidays, so that the longest adjournment we can possibly have will in reality be two months. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee. 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 postponed. 
Clauses 3 and 4 .agreed to. 
Schedule (Proposed vote, £3,293,290). 
I move - 
That the House of Representatives' be requested to reduce the amount, £3,293,290, to £2,195,527. 
In doing so I wish to say that there is no desire on my part, or on the part of those associated with me, to in any way interfere with recruiting. But  the Minister in charge of this Bill must recognise that during the period that the war has been in progress, very rarely has more than two months' Supply been granted. For a new Government, without even a quorum of their own party in either branch of the Legislature, to ask for three months' Supply is to ask too much. I have no desire to dwell upon . that aspect of the matter, because it might* be thought that I was doing so in a carping spirit. As regards the re-as sembling of Parliament I propose that we shall fix a date beyond which it cannot stand- adjourned, but in such a way that the Government will still have power to call it -together at any time that the occasion demanded. I am endeavouring to deal with a most serious proposition in a most friendly way. I think that the Government must be aware of that fact. Last night I was as anxious as was the Government to see this Bill put through as soon as possible. As to who was responsible for the all night sitting  I  think that honours are even. But the position of the Ministry is different from that of any other Administration that I can remember during my parliamentary experience. In view of the fact that, for a fortnight out of the period over which we adjourn, members of the Parliament from distant States will- be occupied in going to and returning from their homes, we are satisfied to grant two months' Supply. If the Government are willing to regard this as a peace offering, I shall be pleased; but if they are not we are prepared to meet any contingency which may arise. As far as the public servants are concerned, we have sat here all night in order (that they may receive their pay at the usual time. We have been anxious to proceed speedily, with a view to the civil servants receiving their pay without any- unnecessary delay. 
If that is the case, it is not our responsibility. The Government should have called Parliament together a little earlier, or placed a little restraint on their own. supporters to enable it to be done. 
The time that honorable senators occupy in speaking is recorded, and will show that the representatives of the party with which I am. associated have not taken an undue length of time in discussing any matter regarding the Bill. 
I am not complaining of any one else, but when the implication is put forward that we have already prevented the civil servant? from being paid in proper time, I can claim that honorable senators have been ready to meet the Government and come to a  division at any time if they had wished it during the last twenty-four hours. 
The occasion is very unique. Things have happened of such magnitude that what has surprised me has been the moderation of all honorable senators. Even if' the Minister for Defence is a little out of sorts through having been kept out of bed all night, he should recognise the generous way in which we are treating the Government, but if there is no response to generous treatment, and the gauntlet is thrown down, we are quite prepared to pick it up. Honorable senators are prepared to submit the amendment without any further delay or debate, in order to enable the Government to accept it, or, if they do not do so, follow, with the utmost expedition, whatever course their' wisdom has mapped out. 
I regret that  Senator Gardiner,  notwithstanding my appeal, has moved this request. I again appeal to him not to follow this course, and I appeal to honorable senators not to vote to carry the request; "because, if it is carried, it will practically prevent members of this Parliament from taking part in the recruiting campaign, as can easily be demonstrated by. a reference to the dates. We are now in the middle of December. If the request is carried here, and is acceded to in another place, we must meet again not later than ' the second' week in February, which means that the members from Queensland and Western Australia will not have more than a week or two in their States. Obviously, nothing can be done in connexion with recruiting for the rest of this year. 
What he has said is not. the point at" the present moment. What the Government have said is the  main thing. We have asked the' people to endeavour to make recruiting successful.  Senator Gardiner  has said that it can be made a success, and a number of members of his party say that they are willing to help to make it a success, but it cannot be done unless they have time to visit their constituencies and make arrangements for the formation of committees. 
The Federal member is asked to make himself the primary agent for forming committees in his electorate, but if the request moved by  Senator Gardiner  is carried and acceded to by another place, it will give the member, at the most, only a month in which to do that work, even in the districts that are within easy reach of Melbourne, while in the districts at a distance from Melbourne it will not give him a fortnight. 
There is something to be said for that. The most important question we have to deal with at the present juncture is that of supplying reinforcements for the troops at the front I ask honorable senators to realize that the action that has been taken by  Senator Gardiner  will prevent that being done, and to vote according to their consciences. I shall pursue the matter no further, except to reply to  -Senator Gardiner's  remark as to the position of the Government. The honorable senator takes up the position that if the Government will accept what he and his party like to give everything will be all right. The Government do not propose to take up that attitude. We have escaped from one form of tyranny, and do not propose to put ourselves under another. 
We were not. As soon as it was attempted to be exercised we acted accordingly. . The Government do not propose to accept the request. If it is pressed to a division, I hope those honorable members who wish to assist in the recruiting campaign will vote against it. 
I would be reluctant to take any step that would prevent the utmost effort being put forward in connexion with the recruiting campaign; but, at the same time, I think it is highly desirable that this Parliament should not go into a lengthy recess. We have heard that a certain section of the community, which has been condemned from one end of the Commonwealth to the other, advocate a go-slow and ca'canny policy, but there, is no institution whichis so liable to go slow as Parliament is. I do not like so much government by regulation. It will be no inconvenience to the great bulk of members of this Parliament to assemble in the first week in February. If we were about to set out on an election campaign we would find ample time to speak and return here by that time ; and, as the question of securing the necessary reinforcements is even of greater importance to the country than an election campaign, I am satisfied that the great bulk of members of this Parliament could engage in the campaign most persistently and determinedly during the month at their . disposal, and be back here during the first week in February. 
It is being got ' into working order now. Any one who has carefully perused the document handed to us over the signature of  Mr. Mackinnon  will have noticed that steps are now being taken throughout the Commonwealth to get the full scheme into working, order at very short notice. If members of Parliament care to put their efforts behind the scheme it can be got into working order at very short notice. 
It should not take more than twenty-four hours to get to all the railway centres of South Australia. 
The honorable senator will not be expected to do' all the work in South Australia. We can assemble here in the first week in February, but I. do not think that it will be necessary even then to remain in session for a long period. I am not in favour of Parliament going into a long recess at the present juncture, and I am not prepared to offer opposition to any scheme that the Government may have in view for the purpose of maintaining reinforcements in sufficient number under the voluntary system in order to keep our Forces up to the normal strength. 
 Senator Gardiner  has invited us to notice the striking similarity he presents to that great Indian proconsul who was staggered at his own moderation. At times . I might have been inclined to think that  Senator Gardiner  was moderate, but when he followed his claim for moderation by a threat there was no mistaking the attitude' he has taken up. Apart from that, I wish to emphasize the honorable senator's statement that this is a claim for moderation. No request, short of refusing the Bill altogether, could have been submitted which was less immoderate. We have already exceeded half a month of the Supply asked for. 
No; it commences from the 1st December, and two weeks have now gone by. 
I shall deal with that point later. Already to-day two weeks have gone. The honorable senator proposes to give two months' Supply. He could not give one month's Supply only, unless he is prepared to stop here through the Christmas holidays. Therefore, in his talk of moderation, it is not moderation for -the Government that he is thinking of; it is the convenience of honorable senators who have the holidays in view. So let there be no pretence as to moderation in this matter. I come now to the suggestion that, though we have lost two weeks at this end of the term, we shall gain two weeks at the other end of the period. That is true. But what is the complaint made? It is that the Senate has not had sufficient time to examine the Bill.  Senator Gardiner  points out that there has been an overlapping in the due time of payment to the Civil Service, owing to the fact that the Bill did not come- to. this Chamber earlier, but that, position arises from the fact- that when you have no Supply to go on with' you have immediately to get' it within a few days. There is another test of the sincerity of the declaration of  Senator Gardiner  that he did not wish to harass the Government. If he was sincere- in the declaration that all he sought was some guarantee that Parliament would meet within a reasonable period, the motion might have been preceded by a request to the Government to state when they intended to call Parliament together. Does he want a  guarantee of. when the Senate will meet,, or. does, he want to hamper the Government in the matter of Supply? If the latter; he is taking, the correct, course' now, but if he merely wanted an assurance' that Parliament would not be kept in. recess, when it ought to be sitting, his. proper course was to ask the Government, first, to what date they intended to adjourn Parliament, or to promise that they would call it together by a certain date. That he did not do. Therefore, he is not seeking an assurance as to the re-assembling of Parliament, but is endeavouring to harass- and, possibly, humiliate the Government. Many honorable , senators living, in distant States will naturally desire to return home for' the Christmas' holidays. A holiday till the middle of January is not unreasonable for men situated as. many honorable senators are-. But if the requested amendment is carried we shall meet early in February. It takes some honorable senators a&gt; week to- come from their States, and thus- we should have only two' weeks to- give to recruiting.. Are not honorable senators who say they are prepared to help , the voluntary method open to the suspicion, if they vote for the request, of seeking to create some excuse for their absence from the recruiting platform?' It will have a very damping effect on the recruiting organizations throughout the country if there is the slightest suspicion that members of Parliament, whilst throwing their verbal blessings over the movement, are in some way or- other seeking, to avoid their share of responsibility for doing what they- can for the movement. It will have a very bad ' effect on the agencies to which we are looking to carry the brunt, of the work. "We at least owe it to these bodies of private citizens to render them what little assistance and 'help we can by our presence and advice. For that reason we have to ask ourselves whether we will support the Government proposal, leaving ourselves, at least six weeks for recruiting, work, or practically placard Australia with the statement that we- have adopted such a course as will leave' only two or three weeks available for that, important national work. 
Members' from Western Australia are placed in an awkward position. Because of the uncertainty as to the rising of the Senate, I have been unable- to book a passages to Western Australia until this week.. The earliest time I can leave for the West is. the 26th, arriving in Fremantle on 3rd January,If the amendment is carried, no one landing in. Western Australia, on that day could do any earnest work in the im-. portant recruiting campaign before us before he would have to leave again for Melbourne for the meeting of Parliament. If this move is simply to tie members to Melbourne, or humbug. , the Government,. I advise honorable senators opposite to go straight for what they are aiming at, and " fire " the Government out. I prefer' sudden death to the Government being kept from doing the work of the country. If their desire is to prevent the granting of Supply, members of the Opposition have the numbers in this Chamber to bring the Government down at one fell swoop. The country will not tolerate any humbug, but will have a great deal more regard and respect for the Opposition party if they do what they have been threatening so often to do. Three months' Supply, with the holidays intervening, is not too long if any work at- all is to be done in connexion with the recruiting scheme. Personally, I have not been able to get to my own State since I returned from the Old Country. 
Motion, by Leave, amended to- read as follows :  - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to leave out the amount of the total £3,293,290 and to insert £2,195,527 in lieu thereof, and to make the consequential amendments in the schedule. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
This is a Bill to cover three months' Supply in respect of works, the amount asked for being £2,702,760. With the exception of certain amounts, which were paid out of Treasurer's advance, in respect of expenditure in the Federal Capital, and which are authorized under this measure, the Bill contains nonew items that have not already been . authorized. 
I should not have risen, but for an aside just now between the Minister for Defence and myself, and in which I received for the second time during the present sitting a sort of lecturette from him. Whilst I was offering a few observations on another measure, I was told that I was delaying the payment of the salaries of Commonwealth public servants. That statement was absolutely incorrect. I was not doing anything of the kind. Quite a number of other honorable senators took part in that debate, and several supporters of the Government had a good deal to say. While one of the supporters of the Government was speaking, ' and after he had been an hour or more in getting into his stride, the Minister for Defence encouraged him and he kept going for quite a long time. 

 Sitting suspended from 8.45 to 10.15 a.m. (Friday) . 

When the sitting was suspended I was saying that the last thing I desire would be the stoppage of any works in progress or any works contemplated by the amount provided in this Bill for the present financial year. I know that there is a movement afoot in different quarters to prevent a number of works in progress in different parts of Australia by Federal 'Departments from being proceeded with. I am told - I do not know whether it is correct or not - that a number of men have been dispensed with at the Flinders Naval Base, and that, although their services have beendispensed with, there is work which, in the opinion of some persons, might well be proceeded with now. 
What do we want many things for? 
The honorable senator is, apparently, disposed to join in the cry from various sources that all 
Works of a non-productive character should cease during the progress of the war. 
I understand that the honorable senator would forthwith, whether it was sound economically or not, support a proposition to stop the works being proceeded with to complete the trans-Australian railway. 
I understand that the honorable senator would stop any developmental work in the Northern Territory, and various other items ? 
These ' repeated cries for economy come in cycles. They come in peace periods; they come in normal times, and they come in such times as we are going through now, and the moves are not always so much in the true interests of economy as they are for party purposes. Did we ever hear in peace time, especially from a New South Wales representative, that the works at the Federal Capital should be stopped? Did we ever hear from any representative of Western Australia, either Labour or Liberal, that the trans- Australian railway should not be completed? I know the fight which the Labour members from the latter State, at one time members of the Australian Labour party, put up for years to convince a number of honorable senators, and a number of the people in different parts of the Commonwealth, that that railway was not only essential in the best interests of the Federation, but that it ought to be looked upon, not so much as a productive enterprise as an imperative necessity from the defence stand-point. 
I was one of the few representatives of Victoria who gave a support to the passage of the Survey Bill, and to the measure for the construction of the line itself. I gave the representatives of Western Australia every assistance I could, in order to hasten the completion of that work. If it is to be stopped now because it will be nonproductive, that kind of economy, and the reasoning applied to that kind of economy, could be made applicable to almost every undertaking now in progress in. Australia. Are there any Commonwealth buildings to-day which, in. themselves, are productive enterprises? 
A few; . not many. 
It all depends upon what the honorable senator means by the word " productive." 
I can quite understand that post-offices are productive in the sense that revenue is raised from them; but we know also that the post-offices, in some years at least, have been nin at a loss. We know, too, that a number of the telephone services have been run at a loss. We know that nearly every railway built in Victoria before it became a State was non-productive from the start. We know, further, that the roads and the bridges are non-productive. We know that all military expenditure is non-productive. Is  Senator Stewart  going to join issue with those gentlemen who are crying out " Economy, economy !" to prevent all undertakings which are not productive - ' 
Which are not revenue-producing, which do not show a profit to the Commonwealth, which are run at a loss? The construction of the trans- Australian railway is to be stopped when it is almost nearing completion because it, so it is said, will be a nonproductive undertaking. If it were laid down as a basic principle that no money should be voted by this Parliament' for any works in any one of the States unless they would be revenue-producing, and. profitable, enterprises from the word " Go," I wonder how many undertakings would be proceeded with. 
Absolute stagnation. 
I say. to members of our party in all friendliness, "Beware at certain times, of those who cry  Economy, economy, economy !' " When they desire economy and apply the praning-knife, who are the first people that are affected? Who are the class, that, mostly suffer ? I do not know how many men are employed on the transAustralian railway. Perhaps  Senator Lynch  can. tell me. 
It can be safely said that at least double that number would be, more or less, affected by the stoppage of the railway. 
The honorable senator suggests that we should begin, by sacking all these- men and stopping the construction of the railway. Then, to be consistent, he would not stop there. He would displace all the men employed at the Federal Capital. There may be 200, or 300, or 1,000 at work there. Then there is a number of men employed in the erection of public buildings in different States and in making, additions to existing buildings. All these men would be more or less affected. If  Senator Stewart  and others are consistent in their advocacy of economy, and adhere to the principles which they apparently believe in, there will be a general cessation of Commonwealth undertakings from now onwards. In what direction, may I ask  Senator Stewart,  could Commonwealth workmen be better employed ?' Can he give me an answer ? 
-Very. good. Many of these men,,  Senator Stewart  may say, might be at the front, or might be employed in avenues which would be- helpful in the furtherance of the war. But I do not think that he would say for a moment that it would be a proper thing, to stop public works in order to force these men to the war; that they would have to choose between starvation and going to the front. 
I do not want to do that. 
I do not know where those opportunities are-. 
I know that in Victoria there is a number of men who are on the union books to-day, and have been there for a long time,, who would be very glad to get from  Senator Stewart  information which would lead them to obtain work. 
They may not be suitable for that class of work. During the last' few days I have seen men canvassing who-, till' recently, were in employment. The stoppage, of coal supplies threw quite- a big army of men out of work in this. State, and this may apply to other. States, too. If,' in 'addition to these hardships, thousands of other men are to be thrown out of work, there- is a bad look-out for everybody in Australia as a result. The present Government, I believe, have started to economize in certain directions. The other day the Treasurer was asked in another Chamber to what extent economies had been effected, or were proposed to be effected during the . coming year,, and he said that the Government expected to effect a saving of £740,000, and he instanced the buildings which, apparently, were not to be proceeded with. The list includes quarantine buildings, lighthouses, postal buildings, naval and military buildings. This apparently is but the beginning of a policy approved by the Government and indorsed by tbeir supporters, who appear to be extremely anxious to stop all public undertakings. This course would inflict- severe hardship upon thousands of citizens in Australia. I am not one to advocate expenditure that is not justifiable, but I maintain that we shall never have progress in Australia if we listen to the editors and writers of special articles in the different papers. I remember that a similar cry was raised in 1913. It is a familiar cry, 'and as I have said, it comes in cycles. At that time the  Age  devoted leading and special articles to the amounts voted by Parliament for naval and military purposes. One article appearing in the  Age  on the 26th November, 1913, was as follows: - 
The only object of our Citizen Force is to drive out an invader if he once got into the country - an extremely vague and shadowy contingency. To accomplish that defensive action we should be sufficiently equipped if we had an army of bush fighters and marksmen similar to the force used by the Boers against Great Britain. Such a body of citizen defenders does not need to be trained by the drill-ground and barrack-room methods of an offensive military system, such as th'at directed by the War Office. Nor need it involve the waste of millions of treasure. The form of defence most suitable to our need -must be evolved by Aus-  tralian genius free from the effete influence of General Ramrod and  Major Pipeclay,  and adapted to the means and resources of a peaceful and industrious people. 
May I ask the honorable senator if he intends to connect his remarks with the Works and Buildings Bill ? 
But I would point out that the honorable senator will have an ample opportunity under the heading of military expenditure. At present he is only entitled to speak with regard to the works and buildings. The extract read by the honorable senator was not directed against works and buildings, but against general military expenditure, and by referring to that matter now, he will be duplicating the discussion. 
I have listened with a good deal of interest to the address delivered by  Senator Findley,  and I could not help wondering if the honorable gentleman had not quite forgotten the circumstances in which the Commonwealth finds itself.  The honorable gentleman talked as if we were living in the " piping times of peace," when normal expenditure' might be proceeded with without difficulty, instead of in a time when we require every farthing we can lay our hands upon for such productive works as may be necessary to the " welfare of this Commonwealth. We are, in short, at a very difficult period in our history with our public debt, due to the war, mounting to within easy distance of £200,000,000 sterling, and before we know where we are, we shall have an interest bill of about .£10,000,000 per annum. That money will have to be found by the working people of Australia, and the more we borrow now to keep people employed, the heavier will become the burden upon those engaged in reproductive industries. When the war ends we shall also have to provide for our soldiers - to see that the men who were brave enough to go out to fight for their country are suitably rewarded. That is a duty -which we shall not be able to avoid. Then we shall also have an army of dependants. In addition to all" this expenditure, we have the old-age pensions bill to meet. A very short time ago we increased those pensions by 2s. 6d.a week, and I have heard it mooted that pensions are shortly to be paid to widows a,nd orphans. That is quite a legitimate way of spending public money, and I could enumerate a number of other directions for such expenditure. When we have such an array of proposals for expenditure before us, it behoves every man who has the interests of the country at heart to see that not a single shilling is spent at the present time that can be avoided. I look through these. Works Estimates, and I notice that it is proposed to spend over £1,000,000 on the Kalgoorlie to Port Augusta Railway. The most sanguine man in Australia will scarcely contend that that railway will pay in the ordinary sense of the term within the next fifty years. If that be so, why not put this £1,000, 000, which I remind honorable senators We have to -go cap-in-hand to some one to borrow, to some immediately productive use. I do not say that the construction of. this railway should be stopped for ever. I would not advance such a proposition for a moment, but I say that the Commonwealth is now in the position of an individual whose house happens to be on fire. He would trouble himself about nothing at the moment but the quenching of the flames. I have seen fields of sugar cane and of grass in flames, and the farmers have called upon every man on their holdings, and every man they -could gather in their neighbourhood, to help them put out the fire. Every other work was stopped until the fire was beaten out. Speaking of the Commonwealth, I say that our house is in flames. At the present moment we are at war, and every resource of the country should be employed in carrying the war to a successful, issue. That is the attitude I take up, ' and I can defend it before any audience and in any company. 
T hope that  Senator Findley  will have a little patience. I know what his ideas  n  these matters are. Unfortunately for himself and the country, his experience has been confined to Melbourne. He has seen hardly anything of the rest of Australia. 
I said the other evening that the cities of Australia have grown out of all proportion to its population. They have grown to such dimensions largely because of the adoption of a policy such as that suggested by  Senator Findley  to-day. Numbers of people live in the cities. They have votes and political power. They have the control of politicians, and they insist upon the poli'ticians borrowing money to spend - where ? In the cities. I have heard ,men openly proclaim that it did not matter to them whether public works paid or hot. So long as money was spent, and they earned good wages, that was all they required. That kind of thing has been going on for fifty years in Australia, and is as rampant to-day as ever it was. It has become a very Frankenstein, and those who are behind the adoption of such a policy are like the horse leech, they are never satisfied. Any man who would say these things to the people of our large cities would make himself exceedingly unpopular to them, but we have to take a square look at the condition of things in Australia. It is not by letting things slide that we shall ever get the Commonwealth out of its difficulties. I remember 
I have been up and down Australia as much as have most people, and I am satisfied that the part of this continent with which I am most familiar is very -much over rail-roaded I am satisfied that it would be very much better for Australia if to-day she had only about half the railway lines she has in operation. 
That may be the interpretation which "the honorable senator puts upon my argument, but it is not the interpretation I put upon it, nor is it the meaning I wish to attach to it. If  Senator Ferricks  will have a little patience, I shall discover the matter to him. I suppose that I may be permitted to say a few words here upon land monopoly? 
I am not talking of mining towns, but of agricultural districts. I know of districts in Queensland through which .railways run for 100 miles with hardly any settlement along them. In other parts of the State there are huge areas of excellent land unoccupied, although they are within easy reach of railway communication. This evil of land monopoly is intimately connected, not-only with our railway systems, but with the public expenditure of the country. No one will tell me 'that if the railway from Kalgoorlie to Port Augusta were completed to-morrow there would be any volume of traffic over it. I do not believe that there would be a ' large passenger traffic, though members of Parliament, being able to travel free upon it, would probably be compelled to use it. I do not believe that .many other people would travel over the line. There would be no great goods traffic. It would be very much more pleasant for people going to and comin'g from Western Australia to travel by sea 'than to go across hundreds of miles of this desert railway line.' With regard to the carrriage of goods, every one is aware that sea carriage is much-cheaper than is land carriage. "So that the probability, or even the possibility, of that railway being anything like a financial success during the next fifty years 'is extremely problematical. We are going to spend a comparatively large sum of money upon the Federal Capital. I ask why, in the name of common sense, we should not put a stop to that expenditure. Other proposed works might be dropped and the money set aside, or profitably employed in other ways under a properly organized system.  Senator Findley  seems to think that I am desirous of. throwing a large number of people out of employment. 
I have no doubt that that would be the immediate effect of such a policy, but I ask  Senator Findley  and every other member of the Senate to consider whether those men could not be more profitably employed so far as the Commonwealth is concerned in some other direction. Any one who considers the question must admit that 'there will be no immediate return from the Federal Capital. Whatever money is spent there will be sunk without any return for a long period of years. The same thing applies to the money spent on the railway from Kalgoorlie to Port Augusta. I do not suggest for a moment that when the war . is over, and conditions become normal again, the expenditure on the railway and at the Federal Capital should be stopped. I say by all means, when we have this urgent business of the war off our hands, let us turn our attention to these ventures again and completethem. 
We cannot at present get any return from it. 
I direct attention to the fact that the- projects on which we should spend money at this time are those from which we may look for a speedy return. We cannot expect a. speedy return for money expended at the Federal Capital. 
I say again that we cannot afford to complete the Federal Capital at present, because there is more urgent . work to which we should direct our attention. In regard to finding employment for the men who would be thrown out of work if these undertakings were stopped,I would ask  Senator Findley  whether the resources of Australia have been exhausted ? The Labour party has a platform. The Labour party was in power in New. South Wales till a very recent date. Unfortunately, it is not in power there now, but I have not the slightest doubt that if the matter were put before the present Government of that State, it would be able to find em ployment for those men who might otherwise be deprived of their means of livelihood. I say that these men should be put to some more productive task than that on which they are engaged during the present crisis. We hear a good deed about providing for our soldiers on their return from the war. Would  it not pay the Commonwealth better if the New South Wales Government set to work, and employed the men who are now engaged at the Federal Capital in getting farms ready for our soldiers, who will soon be returning, clearing the land for them, fencing it, erecting buildings upon it, and commencing to cultivate it? Would it not pay the country better if money were spent in that way instead of being expended on the Federal Capital? 'The position ' requires only to be stated in order to demonstrate its advantages. This is not a new idea. The same thing is being done in Canada at the present moment. The Canadian-Pacific Railway is busily engaged preparing farms along the whole length of its lines. If a private railway company can do that, surely a sovereign Government can do it. But providing' for the needs of our soldiers is only one way in which the discharged men might be employed. We require to produce more and more primary products. Could not each State Government engage in some industry which would be immediately 'productive? In New South Wales, I believe, the Government . have embarked upon wheat-growing. That sort of thing might be enlarged indefinitely. A similar remark is applicable to the Government of Western Australia, and I am sure that the Victorian Government, if it cared to do so, could also find 'employment for a large number of men in this way. By giving effect to a policy of this sort, we should be only following along the lines of the Labour platform, and if ever there was a time when the inauguration of such a policy was in the interests of the Commonwealth, that time is now. It must be evident to everybody who gives this matter the slightest consideration that, whilst there may be difficulties in the way, those difficulties are not insurmountable, and that any Government which is sincerely anxious to cope with the unemployed evil can do so effectively by the means I have suggested. If that were done, instead of our burying money in the sand, as is being done in so many ways in Australia at the present time, our enterprises would become almost immediately, . reproductive. Look at the wheat crop which has just been sold to the British Government. We are told that the farmers of Australia will get about £27,000,000 for that crop. Surely if private individuals working here ana there on small patches of land, in the most haphazard fashion, can create an industry out of. winch £27,000,000 can be got in one season, the various State Governments can do very much better, and can insure the employment of armies of men on the lands of Australia. I do not wish to go into this matter in detail. I merely desire to outline my ideas' on. the subject, and to point out. to  Senator Findley  and others, who may think I am callous to the welfare of the men who will be displaced' ifour public works are discontinued, that I am nothing of the- kind. I merely object to money being wasted onenterprises which may well be deferred, in view of, the desperate position which we occupy at the present moment; We haveseveral Labour Governments in Australia, on the platform of' each of which is to be found the ideas to which I have been giving utterance. Yet in scarcely a singleinstance has any real attempt been made to engage in enterprises in the way I have suggested. I think that it ought to be done, indeed, that it must be done, if the country is to emerge- successfully from the difficulty in which it now finds itself, and in which it will remain, for a considerable time after the war ends. I know that to talk about reducing expenditure is unpopular, and for the reason which has been given. But a community must order its life on the same lines as a private individual, and a time comes in the history of every private individual when he is compelled to- review his methods of life, to examine his expenditure, to take a; square look at his income, and to see 'whether he is so regulating his business as to get the best out of it. The- same remark applies to a community. If ever there was a necessity for any country to- take stock of its position, that necessity exists in Australia today. I have given utterance to the sentiments which I have expressed, because I think more, of the welfare of Australia than I do of what may be thought of me. Some persons may imagine that I take up this attitude because I wish to find fault. Nothing of the kind. But I realize that if Australia persists in following the course which she is pursuing, ruin must be the result.. And if ruin comes to this country, who will suffer? I am speaking on behalf of the working men and women of Australia. If bad times befall us, it is they who will suffer most. Everybody will suffer more or less; but there is a. considerable section who will always have plenty to eat, a place in which to live, and the ordinary comforts of life. But in the dark days which are to come in Australia there will be thousands of men, women, and little children who will want for the necessaries of life. It is to guard against these consequences as much as possible that I have ventured to put forth the ideas to which I have given expression to-day. I think it would be wise if the Government cut down expenditure to the narrowest limits. Unfortunately, we have not,, at present, the means of providing employment in the direction I have indicated for any considerable section of the community. But the time may come when- the Commonwealth will be able to embark on socialistic enterprises on a very considerable scale. That time, however, has not yet arrived; and, until it does, we must depend largely on the good services of the State Governments to help us out of whatever difficulties may arise. I do- not wish to say anything more on the subject. I have outlined my ideas on this matter, and I am content to leave it at that. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill, read a second time. 

 In Committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 postponed. 
Clauses 3 and 4 agreed to. 
Schedule. 
I brought under the notice of the Minister for Home Affairs some time ago a united request from the whole of the building trades of New South Wales for a reduction by the Department of the hours of labour to a uniform fortyfour per week. So far I have received no satisfactory reply. The men ask that they should be paid only at so much per hour, as they' are paid now, so that this is not a request for an increase' through the reduction of the hours of labour. Will the Minister for Works favorably consider the suggestion? It is proposed to expend £95,000 on the erection of a building in London. That is a" work which might with advantage stand over. 
In certain works under the control of the Department a forty-four hours- week is at present in vogue. I am not prepared to say off-hand whether that can be extended to the other part of the labour employed, but if those employees who want the hours of labour shortened appealed to the Arbitration Court that would be the best way to settle the matter. I am not prepared to interfere in the fixing of rates of pay and conditions of labour while Minister. I am wedded to the principle of arbitration as a means for adjusting rates of pay and conditions of work for employees in the Commonwealth Service. Forty-four hours may be enough for some classes of labour and too much for others. I have never been a slavish believer in an eight-hours day for all classes of labour, knowing from experience that a six-hours day is too long for some kinds of work and eight hours not enough for others. I am not disposed to alter the existing conditions unless directed by. the proper tribunal after an appeal by the employees concerned. 
I do not know what stage-the building in London has reached, but great quantities of marble have been ordered from Australia to put the finishing touches to it. It would, therefore, be foolish at this stage of the work of construction to arrest its progress. We can afford' to spend the trifling amount necessary to complete the work without inconveniencing the Department or running it into any unnecessary expense. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Postponed clause 2, preamble, and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment, and passed through its remaining stages. 
I move - 
That, in the opinion of the Senate, a Royal Commission should be appointed to inquire into and report upon the past administration, and the policy for the future general administration and conduct of affairs in the Northern Territory. 
I am not anxious to incur any additional expenditure at a time like the -present, when economy is the order of the day, but during my recent visit to the Territory many matters came under my observation which justify an inquiry. My idea is for the Commission not only to inquire into those questions, but to frame some great scheme for the future management of the Territory. The Commonwealth is spending large sums there, and I am confident that we are not getting the return from it that we have the right to expect. I do not know that the Territory has received any greater benefit from the Commonwealth than it did from South Australia while it was under her control, although a tremendous increase has taken place in the expenditure. I am not so much finding fault with the salaries, because it is absolutely ' necessary that men who go to the Territory should be paid decent amounts. But I am convinced that a re-organization of the whole position in the Territory would be effected by the appointment of a Commission, - such as I suggest, to go there and investigate matters. In my speech here, I endeavoured to show that many matters require investigation and organization. I pointed out the amount of dissatisfaction which exists among the people, for one reason, amongst many others, because they are defranchised. They have no representation in this Parliament ; th'ey have no votal voice in the government of this country. Any honorable senator will realize that a person living in any portion of Australia regards it, not as a privilege, but as a right, that that portion shall be represented in theNational Parliament. I recognise that there is some difficulty in arranging this matter. I am not sufficiently familiar with the Constitution to be able to say whether the people of the Northern Territory can get representation without an alteration of the Constitution, but I believe that they can. While the Northern Territory was being governed from Adelaide, it had two representatives in the House of Assembly. I am confident that that fact went a long way towards insuring fair management and due consideration of the requirements of the Territory. At the present time, these distant people have no voice whatever in their own government. I found that every section of the community at Port Darwin was totally dissatisfied with this state of affairs. If the Commonwealth is going to spend any more money, apd attempt to develop this, country as it ought to be developed, it is absolutely essential that a representative should be returned to this 
Parliament, so that, whether he is sent to the Senate or the other House, from time to time the people and the Parliament of Australia may be brought more closely in touch with the requirements of the inhabitants of the Territory. 
We . ought to consider their claim to a vote for representation in this Parliament. 
I may say that the- people of the Northern Territory returned a very substantial "Yes" majority at the referendum, but I must not tread on that dangerous ground. We gave these people a vote at the recent referendum, and it is only fair that they should have a vote so that they may be represented in the Parliament of Australia. Since my return from Port Darwin I have received many communications from residents, who have been pressing me all the time to bring forward this motion and ask the Parliament of Australia to agree to the appointment of a Commission to go to the Territory, not with the idea of finding fault, not so much with the idea qf condemning past administration, as with the idea of laying down some plan by which the government of the Territory could be carried out, and the Administrator, or the Government Resident, or whoever the Commonwealth may p°ut in charge in future, shall know exactly what lines he will be expected to travel along; that he shall not be an autocrat; that he shall not be left in the position of having to refer everything he does, or what is done, to Melbourne. The distance between Darwin and Melbourne is too great, and the time occupied in communication is too long. The amount of money spent in pursuing 'every year this roundabout system,' even on telegrams, I venture to say, must be very considerable. So far as agriculture is concerned, although in the Queen's Hall there may be seen some samples of the agricultural products - the sample of rice is a very good one - the agricultural industry in the Territory is in a very undeveloped and very unsatisfactory state. Not much is to be expected from agriculture there for a very considerable time, and one of the reasons is the unscientific methods which  were adopted in conducting experimental farms.. I  went  very fully into that subject when I was last addressing the Senate, and I only desire to say now that; so far as I know, only two men are making a success of agriculture. I want honorable senators to understand thai I am satisfied that this position is owing to no fault of the Territory itself. In years to come, I think farming will be possible and profitable; but a more scientific method, of experimenting, hybridization, and so on, will have to be carried on. A Commission such as I suggest will be able to investigate matters on the spot, and compare the Territory with territories largely similar, and not so far norths with, for instance, the northern portion of Queensland and the north-western portion of Western Australia, which are practically in the same latitude. Queensland has done a very great deal to render the northern portions of her territory - productive, and from that State we could expect to get experts who would have a knowledge of that class of country and climate, and of what was required. From the establishment of the Batchelor farm, and from the time men were invited to go and take up land, nothing of a practicable nature has been done in the Northern Territory, for a reason which I will point out. A man goes up and stays for a year or so as an experimentalist, and then something transpires.. There is a dispute with somebody, he leaves the place, and a considerable period expires before his successor is appointed. Whatever work one man may have done has entirely disappeared before the arrival of the other man. I am by no means condemning the agricultural industries of various kinds in the Territory ; but I hold that they are practically useless until the local population is large enough to consume the major portion of the products. As regards mining, the northern portion of the Territory, that is to say, from Darwin to Pine Creek, is very promising. There are large mineral belts, not very well prospected, and very poorly developed. The other day I received a telegram informing me what the cost of treating the ore was. I am sorry that I have not the message here, otherwise I could have told honorable senators exactly the cost of treating ore in the small batteries which have been erected. The cost is altogether too great, and unless some action is taken to increase the power of the batteries and reduce the expenditure in someway or other, these small tin mines will not be profitably worked. 
Is the honorable senator anticipating the report of the Commission which he proposes to have appointed ? 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Russell)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
With the idea of expediting the business before the Senate, it is 'my intention to make only a few remarks upon this,the first of the Bills for an alteration, of the Constitution, and merely move the second, reading of the other measures, because this Parliament has already discussed" and passed all the measures. The Bills were ready to go to the people when the Government, of which I was a member, withdrew them as the outcome of a definite pledge given by the Premiers of the several States that in order to avoid a referendum they would voluntarily surrender to the Commonwealth all the powers asked for during the term of the war, and for twelve months afterwards. Much inconvenience was caused to the Government by the failure of the States to honour the agreement.A large number of regulations had to be passed to deal with matters that could have been embraced within the several measures referred to. 
No, . but it was a question of the difficulty of being able to remedy the position caused by the treachery of other people. 
I do not mind the taunt from the Leader of the Opposition, as I recognise that he may feel justified on any occasion when he thinks fit to taunt me with being silent with regard to this matter. I remained silent because there was no other course open to me, and because the Government, of which I was a member, were exercising certain necessary powers under the War Precautions Act. To the credit of  Mr. Holman,  it must be said that his Government honoured the promise made. The New South Wales Parliament passed the necessary . Bills through both Houses, and I venture to say that if every Parliament of the Commonwealth had done likewise, the position would have been quite satisfactory. 
Yes; the Queensland Government did succeed in passing the Bills through the Lower House, but the Legislative Council deliberately tore up the scrap of paper by rejecting them. After the definite promise made by the Premiers, the several Parliaments should have honoured the agreement. At the time of which I speak, the Bills, having been passed by the Federal Government the necessary steps had been taken to appeal to the people, and when the agreement with the Premiers was made, the Commonwealth Government had to withdraw the writs by means of a proclamation issued by the Governor-General. I emphasize distinctly the fact that the blame for failing to honour the agreement made by the Premiers rested with the various State Parliaments rather than with the Governments of the States. 
SenatorMillen. - You. could not blame the Parliaments because they were not parties to the contract. They could not help themselves. 
The Parliaments, in view of all the circumstances, should have honoured the agreement. Referring- to the Bills, I point out that they are identical with those introduced on a former occasion and passed through both Houses by a constitutional majority. That being so, I will refrain from a further advocacy of their principles. I might sum up the position by saying that at present our legislative authority is limited by the Constitution, and that there is a consensus: of opinion throughout the Commonwealth that the National Government should have power to deal with the several matters referred to in the different Bills. The Commonwealth Parliament, representing Australia as a whole, should possess the fullest powers of sovereign government. These measures have been before the people on previous occasions, and on the last occasion secured a larger support than when they were first submitted. It is apparent that there is a growing feeling that the Federal Parliament must be given greater powers than it at present possesses. If the States persist in refusing these powers, there will be be an increased feeling that the time when there should be six sovereign State Parliaments, each with full powers, and one Parliament of the Commonwealth with only limited powers, has gone by. I shall say no more except to repeat that this Bill and the other Constitution Alteration Bills with which I propose to proceed were passed by the Senate on a previous occasion. 
On the point of order I wish to say that although these Constitution Alteration Bills were introduced and passed by the Senate, they were withdrawn by an Act passed by both Houses of this Parliament. An Act was passed authorizing the Governor-General to issue a proclamation to withdraw the writs which would have enabled these Bills to be given effect to.- The proclamation provided for under that Act was issued, and so far as the previous Bills similar to these are concerned, they are quite dead. The only way in which effect could now be given to them is that they should be brought up again in the Senate and dealt with as I propose. I have overlooked for the moment the title of the Act authorizing the issue of the proclamation to which I have referred. 
I do not think that the fact that an Act was passed to authorize the issue of such a proclamation is in dispute. 
That . is quite another matter. 
No question or amendment shall be proposed which is the same in substance as any question or amendment which, during the same session,' has been resolved in the affirmative or negative, unless the order, resolution, or vote on such question or amendment has been rescinded. It does not matter what became of the previous Bills. The question which  Senator Gardiner  is asking you, sir, to put to the Senate is one which, in this same session, has already been dealt with. It is quite immaterial in the circumstances what proceedings were taken under theAct to which  Senator Gardiner  has referred. 
I have examined the Bill, the second reading of which  Senator Gardiner  hasmoved. I havelooked up the facts connected with an exactly similar Bill passed by the Senate during this session. I have also looked upall the authorities on the matter. I find that, as pointed out by the Minister for Works, Standing Order 133 says - 
No question or. amendment shall be proposed which is the same in substance as any question or amendment which, . during the same session, has been resolved in the affirmative or negative, unless the order, resolution, or vote on suchquestion or amendment has been, rescinded. 
It is quite evident that this Bill has already been before the Senate and was decided by this Chamber during this session, and under the Standing Order it cannot be again revived during this session. That is perfectly plain. There can be no dispute about it, The point taken by  Senator Gardiner  that these Constitution Alteration Bills were withdrawn by an Act of Parliament has been taken under a misapprehension. They were nob withdrawn. Nothing was done fo those Bills under the Act of Parliament referred to. There is an Act on our statute-book withdrawing the proclamation under, these Bills. As  Senator Millen  has pointed out it does not matter one iota whether these Bills were withdrawn' or not. The only question to be decided by me is whether these Bills have already been dealt with by fhe Senate during the present session. It is indisputable that they were so dealt with. The Standing Order is very clear on the point that consequently the attempt now made to revive them is not in order. I have fortified myself in connexion with this ruling by looking up the Imperial practice, which is also quite clear on the point. In the 11th edition of  May's Parliamentary Practice,  at page 300, I find the statement made - 
It is a rule, in both Houses, which is essential to thedue performance of their duties, that no question or Bill shall be offered that is substantially the same as one on which their judgment has already been expressed in the current session. 
There are numerous* instances given of the application of this rule.  May  goes on to say, at page 308, that the only way in which that rule can be got over is by. inducing the Government to grant a pro- rogation of Parliament so as to overcome the difficulty. At page 308  May  says - 
Hence, in 1707, Parliament 'was prorogued for a week, in order to admit the revival of a Bill which had been rejected by the Lords. 
That was the remedy adopted in that case. It is unfortunate for  Senator Gardiner  and those who desire that these Constitution Alteration Bills should be revived that owing to the war and the necessity that Parliament should constantly be in a position to be called together, there has been no prorogation since this Parliament met for the first time on the 8th October, 1914. 
I have considered that point. Under the standing order, they cannot be revived in the same session, and the Senate is now unable to deal with them. I supported these Constitution Alteration Bills when they were previously introduced, and I would support them again if they, could be brought properly before the Senate at the present time. I am, of course, dealing with the matter entirely from the point of view or the proper procedure to be adopted by the Senate. I am bound, as the Senate is hound, by the Standing Orders, the practice of Parliament, and the Constitution. Constitution Alteration Bills are the only measures which., under the Constitution, may be passed more than once by either House in the same session, but the condition on which they may be so passed in the same session is that either House will not have agreed to them. In all the circumstances, it is unnecessary for me to give a more elaborate ruling. The position is unmistakable under the Constitution, our Standing Orders, and the practice of the House of Commons, which is very largely our guide. The point taken by the Minister for Works must be sustained, and the Bill ruled out of order. Does  Senator Gardiner  propose to take any further action with respect to the other Bills of which he has charge? 
The . honorable senator can take plenty of time to consider what he will do, but if they are submitted, I shall simply be obliged to rule them out of order for the reasons which I have given for ruling that the first Bill cannot be proceeded with. 
For the reasons which I stated at length in dealing with the Constitution Alteration (Trade and Commerce) Bill (No. 2), I have to rule that this Bill is also out of order. It is unnecessary for me to repeat my ruling. It is sufficient to say that the Bill cannot be further proceeded with. 
It is unnecessary for me to say more than that, for exactly the same reasons as I have given in connexion with the other Bills, this Bill is also out of order, and cannot be proceeded with. 
For the same reasons as I gave with regard to the previous Bills, I rule that this Bill is also out of order, and cannot be proceeded with. . 
For the reasons I have already given, I rule that this Bill is out or order, and cannot be proceeded with. 
For the reasons I have given in 'dealing with the previous Bills, I have to rule that this Bill is also out of order, and' cannot be proceeded with. 
It is some time since the debate on this motion was adjourned. Honorable senators will be aware from the speech with which  Senator McDougall  introduced his motion, that the principal needs to which he referred are those of the Post and Telegraph Department. The war has taught us. how very necessary it is that we should establish manufactures of essentials for our own use. Matters are in a very different position to-day from what they were when  Senator McDougall  introduced this motion. If his reasons for recommending it to the Senate were good at that time, they should now apply with greater force. We, have a very great interest in the establishment of manufactures, necessary to make us self-supporting. The. Government are carrying, on in the Post and Telegraph Department a huge concern in connexion with which, for instance, thousands of tons of copper wire are used. We require the establishment of a wellequipped factory to supply the needs of such a huge spending Department, and the sooner we set to work in real earnest to provide factories for the manufacture of all necessary supplies to meet Government requirements the better. I suppose that. Australia is as rich in metals . necessary for manufactures of this kind as is any other country in the world. The copper mines of South Australia, and of the other States, can provide us' with all of this kind of metal that we require. Since the beginning of the war we have appointed a Science Committee to inquire into matters in which science can. assist industry and industry can be instructed by science. Having ascertained the most scientific method for dealing with- this and cognate questions, we shall then be in a position to establish industries in this country. That would be a much more efficient way of providing employment for our own people than is the old-fashioned method of levying imposts on imports with a view to compelling private individuals to embark in industry. I feel quite sure that the Government will give immediate effect to this motion if it should be carried. I am satisfied that it will be carried, and if, as a result, we find in the near future that an earnest' attempt is being made to supply from own own mines the increasing requirements of our public Departments, this Senate will have accomplished a very good work. 
Motion (by  Senator Lynch)  put - 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
The position now is that I am asked- to express an opinion upon a proposal submitted by  Senator McDougall,  which, if carried, will commit the Government to the establishment of certain works for the manufacture of electric cables. When the motion was moved, the adjournment of the debate was proposed by  Senator Gardiner,  who was then a Minister. When any honorable senator submits a proposal of this character, it is only reasonable that a Minister should be afforded an opportunity of placing before tbe Chamber the view that is held by the Go-, vernment regarding the advisableness of giving effect to it. A change of Government having taken place,  Senator Gardiner's  name still stands on the noticepaper, indicating that he had the right to resume the debate, and he has spoken upon the motion, although I venture to say that he was not prepared to do so. But whether he was prepared or not, the fact remains that we are being denied a statement by the Minister. When a proposition is submitted to the Senate, which, if carried, would commit a public' Department to a certain line of policy, there is naturally a desire on the part of every honorable senator to know precisely what arguments, either for or against the proposal, the Department chiefly interested will advance. I hope that even now an opportunity will.be given to the Department, through its Minister, to express its views on this project. Personally, it is one which appeals to me. But I will not accept the responsibility of voting for the motion without first having an opportunity of learning from the Minister all the information which the Department most directly concerned has upon it. I ask  Senator McDougall  to consider this aspect of the case. Even if the motion be carried, it will not help him one jot unless he secures the cordial co-operation of the Government. It is merely owing to a change of Ministry that we have not had an opportunity of securing the Minister's advice in regard to this proposal. I ask  Senator McDougall  to recognise . the reasonableness of my suggestion that the Government should be afforded an opportunity of placing before honorable senators all the information they have in their possession in this connexion. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Ready)  adjourned. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.30 to4. p.m. (Friday) . 

It is a proposal to tax the unimproved value. 
If it does not, it is due to a misprint. . I propose a straightout land value tax on the unimproved value of land. I ask leave to continue my remarks on a future date. 
Leave granted ; debate adjourned. 
.- I regret that the Minister did not give reasons why this most reasonable and just request of the Senate should not be pressed. When it isdeliberately decided by a large majority of the Senate- 
Yes; a majority that was actually half the Senate. When eighteen members out of thirty-six make a request to the House, the Senate is entitled to insist on pressing it. I shall, therefore, vote against the motion. 
Sixteen were present, and I take it that the other two would have been with us had they been here. 
I shall insist on the request being pressed. 
I do not think anybody in this Senate is to be bullied or threatened by fear of consequences. If the consequences in this case mean the Government going to the country immediately, and us with them, we shall be quite prepared to accept the challenge, and also the decision of the people. 
I would also point out that, in order to facilitate the business of the Senate, the request could be modified in the direction of insuring that Parliament shall be called together on the 27th February, or at such earlier date as may be deemed necessary by the  President.  The majority who votedfor the request being pressed said that their principal reason was that it was undesirable that Parliament should adjourn for such a long period as three months. I beg now to inform them that we cannot leave the position as it is at present; but if it will satisfy them to any extent, they can agree to a proposition that Parliament be called together as I have just suggested. Having given that undertaking, I cannot go any further in my attempt to meet their wishes. The Minister for Defence has explained quite fully our reasons for asking for three months' Supply in this measure. Three months' Supply has been repeatedly granted by the Senate.  In the course of this session it has been given without murmur, but now we are face to face with the situation that several honorable senators refuse to grant the ordinary amount of Supply which has been given without question on previous occasions. I realize that there are certain grounds which are more or less of an unstable character supporting the claim that this request be pressed," but. I would point out that, as mentioned by my colleague, we are living in a time when we need to avail ourselves to the full of the opportunities afforded to honorable.  members of this Parliament who desire to take a hand in the recruiting campaign." If, my honorable friends are going to ask members of Parliament to come from distant parts of the Commonwealth merely to satisfy the whim of a brutal majority in this Parliament, and leave recruiting to be thrown to the winds, they can accept the responsibility, and it will not rest upon honorable senators on this side. That is the naked position. Otherwise, honorable senators coming from Western Australia will have no time in which to visit their- homes and enjoy that respite which should be theirs, just as much as honorable senators .living in States close to the Seat of Government. My honorable friends are not only unkind and unjust to these honorable senators, but they are destroying every opportunity which would be reasonably afforded to honorable members of both Houses to take a share, as they are entitled to do, in the recruiting campaign. If my honorable friends propose to come back here for an idle purpose, merely to look at each other - and no other reason has been assigned for meeting at such an early date in January - let it be stated. If they propose to come back here for no visible reason at that early date, to leave recruiting to take its own course, to let honorable members of Parment please themselves as to what share they should take in the .campaign, again let me say- 
Yes. Again let me say that the responsibility will not rest with the minority on this side. It is quite clear that my honorable friends have a majority here to enforce their will. But I would point out that in the other Chamber this request was rejected by an overwhelming majority of thirty:six to sixteen. Here my honorable friends have a flimsy majority of eighteen to sixteen, and why, in the face of the overwhelming majority elsewhere, are they seeking to force their will here? I appeal to the leader of that section of the Labour party to realize thoroughly the position which he and his friends will occupy, not only in the Senate, but also in the eyes of the electors throughout the Commonwealth. The responsibility will rest on his shoulders, and on those of his seventeen followers here if, after casting to the winds every shred of excuse which he might have, he insists upon this request being pressed. As already mentioned, the Minister for Defence, who has had to go to his native State, has never had a day off for the last two years? I feel sure that honorable senators will not begrudge my colleague that well-earned rest to which he is entitled after two. years of continuous work, and during a time when it required all the physical energy which he could bring to his aid in the discharge of his important office. He has already explained the position to the Chamber. I appeal to  Senator Gardiner,  and to those who think with him, to modify their views in the light of the promise I have made, and not to insist with a bare majority upon destroying every opportunity which honorable senators would otherwise have to share in the recruiting campaign. 
As I said, three months' Supply has been asked for previously, and given freely by the Senate. But apparently such a. request from this Government is in the eyes of honorable senators a wrong one. 
There " is nothing  definite before the Chair. I allowed the Minister for Works to put the position before the Committee, and I now suggest that nothing be said by way of interjection until a definite motion is 'submitted. 
Has the Minister concluded his remarks? 
That cannot be allowed. There must be some question before the Chair. 
.- I move- 
That the requests be pressed. 
The Leader of the Government has stated that he is willing to make a concession by calling Parliament together, on 27th February instead of 28th February, but I point out that the Supply would last until 28th February, so Parliament would only be called together one day earlier. 
If we gave three months' Supply, it would last over December, January, and February, and the Government would have sufficient to carry them on to the beginning of 
March. I want to put the position fairly, as it appears to me. The Government want us to grant them Supply for December, January, and February-, and we propose to give them Supply for December and January. As a matter of fact, the concession proposed by the Government to meet the desires of the "brutal majority ". - for that is the conciliatory term applied to members of this side by the Acting Leader of the Government - is that, instead of meeting Parliament on the 1st of March, they would meet on the 27th February. 
That is a splendid offer to make. I have no desire to harass, annoy, or inflict any hardship on the present Government, but I point out that, if the Government, without a majority in either House, had asked for two months' Supply, they would havegot it without one word from my party or from myself. Honorable senators behind the Government may not care about my statement that they do not constitute a quorum in either House, but that is a fact. I have read the debates in the other House, and  Senator Millen,  the Leader of the Liberal party in this Chamber, has made it abundantly clear that he is not of the Government party. Neither is  Mr. Cook,  the Leader of the Liberal party in the other House. 
I put it to the Senate that it is a serious matter that a Government without a majority, and without enough members to form a quorum to conduct the business of Parliament, should ask and insist upon getting three months' Supply. If they are prepared to meet this House in February, we shall be ready to treat them as generously as they could expect to be treated. As far as I can gather from the details of the recruiting scheme, the platform work will not be done by parliamentarians, but will be in the hands of organizations, and it can be organized independently of the meeting of Parliament. But there is another very serious oversight. It must be remembered that honorable senators of the first class will have to be re-elected before the 30th June, and up to the present the Government have not given us any. indication of their intentions inregardto that matter. It is  not fair that honorable senators who will have to face their constituents have not received information concerning this important matter, and, in view of this circumstance, the request we make with regard to the meeting of the Parliament is a fair and reasonable one. 
Because the Cook Government always had a majority of their own. 
But they had in the other House, and I again point out that this Government have not a majority in either House. If the Government had a better sense of their obligations, they would have come down to us with a request for three months' Supply, and informed us that as soon as the Christmas holidays were over they would appeal to the constituencies. If that had been done Supply would have been given. It is unfortunate that we should have in office a Government without a majority and without power. I can remember that when we were a third party we had 'the power and no responsibility. That is the position occupied by  Senator Millen  and the Liberal party in both Houses. They have the power, but the responsibility rests, so far as I can see, upon eleven members behind the Government in this Chamber and thirteen in the other House. 
I do not think we need quibble about that. . The elections must be over before the end of May, and the return of the writs cannot be delayed beyond June. I appeal to the reason of honorable senators that we are entitled to have these matters placed before us in a practical, business-like way by the Government. For Senate candidates all the constituencies, are exceedingly large, and it is not fair that the Government should allow this matter to go on until, say, March, perhaps, before they give an indication of their intentions. If the advance account will enable the Government to go beyond the term for which Supply is asked, as the press indicates, they will, be able to struggle on a little further. The position is altogether too serious. 
The granting of two months' . Supply will avoid any dissension or trouble on the eve of the Christmas holidays when we ought to cultivate that kindly expression of opinion which honorable members on this side of the chamber desire. 
It appears from the interjection that if we hold out the olive branch we are laughed to scorn by Government supporters. 
I have not had much time to consider that aspect of the question, and, as a matter of fact, it is only one day before the day on which the Supply would expire. I can quite understand that the ' Government might regard it as a loss of dignity to accept what the majority of the Senate desires them to accept, but I ask them to accept my assurance that our offer has been made, not in any spirit of opposition, but with a desire to meet them in every possible way. Very few Oppositions having the strength of the party I am leading would have been prepared to keep the Government business going all last night. 
Yes, members of our party sat here and never once asked for the quorum bells, to be rung, and . as far as the discussion was concerned, we, with our majority, took no more part in it than the rest of the members. The records of  Hansard  will show that, even to men of suspicious minds. 
I do not state that. . I merely repeated what the press, has already stated; namely, that if this Supply is granted, there may be sufficient money in the advance account of the Treasury to enable the Government to continue in recess for a longer period. 
The Government have never contradicted it. 
Does the honorable senator contradict the statement which appeared in the press? 
But there may be in the previous Bill an advance account that was not exhausted, and that may be drawn upon. What advantage is it for the honorable senator to say ' that it is not in this Bill. We have assembled here in a friendly way to criticise the Government. They must expect that, but the' criticism has not been ungenerous. 
The honorable senator always brings abuse upon his own head. 
If the Governmentchoose to laugh to scorn the friendly sentiments which I have expressed they may do so, but, as far as I arn concerned,' my shoulders are quite strong enough to bear the responsibility of my statements and of the position which I have taken up in protecting the interests of the people outside. While I am a member of this Senate I shall continue to do that. 
The majority in opposition, of which we have heard so much from  Senator Gardiner,  though we saw little of its generosity during the past night, is altogether insignificant when we remember the total of the members of this Parliament who have voted on this question. When this view of the matter is taken, it is clear that what is proposed is really that a minority shall push down the throat of Parliament a most unreasonable suggestion. The division in the Senate this morning on the request was eighteen to sixteen. The votes in favour of the request constituted less than an absolute majority of the Senate. The division on the motion, in the. Rouse of Representatives refusing to make the amendment requested by the Senatewas thirty-six to sixteen. A minority, consisting of eighteen in the Senate and sixteen in another place, are trying to force this proposal down the throats of fifty-two other honorable members of this Parliament. If honorable senators opposite had a good case, I would not pay so much attention to the figures disclosed by the divisions, but they have an exceedingly poor case. In sixteen years' experience in this Chamber, I can remember no instance, when Parliament, sitting so late in the year, was called together so early in the following year as the proposal from the other side would make necessary on this occasion. There should be very good reasons urged for calling Parliament together so early in the new year, and, so far, we have heard none. Honorable senators who may. jump on the train tonight and be at their homes to-morrow should have some consideration for those who have to wait for a fortnight in Melbourne before they can get a boat by which to return to their homes. Apparently, so long as honorable senators who are insisting on granting the Government only two months' Supply may get easily to their homes, it is immaterial to them whether their proposal meets the requirements of other honorable members of the Senate. If the proposal were accepted, it would be quite impossible for honorable senators who desire to do so to take any , hand in connexion with the recruiting scheme. If honorable senators coming from the western States are to do anything in the matter, they must be given more time than the proposal from the other side would give them. The great majority of the members of this Parliament have accepted the Bill for three months' Supply, in order that they may take the important work of recruiting in hand. If those who are making this proposal do npt desire to take up the work of recruiting, they, at least, should not prevent those who are willing to do the work from doing it; or, if that is their object in pressing the request, they should be manly enough to avow their intentions. I should like to know what is really behind the proposed request. If the intention is to bring about a dissolution, I will be one to help  Senator Gardiner  in that direction. We want to know where we stand, and the sooner we know it, the better. I should like to know whether the request is put forward in a spirit of pique, with the  object of placing honorable senators who come from Western Australia in a difficult position. If the desire is to embarrass those who wish to take'part in the recruiting scheme, let honorable senators opposite be honest enough to say that that is their object. I have pointed out that the number of members of this Parliament supporting this request represents an insignificant minority, who have no right to try' to push down the throats of the majority this most unreasonable proposal. 
-  Senator de  Largie is asking for the reasons which prompted  Senator Gardiner  and those supporting him to press the request. The honorable senator and those with him seem to think that the Senate has no rights as a branch of the Federal Legislature. 
T - The tenor of the honorable senator's remarks would lead one to think so. I can appeal to Senators Gould and Millen, who have, been members of the Senate since the establishment of the first Federal Parliament, to admit that this is not 'the first occasion on which the Senate has decided, after full consideration, to press its requests to the House of" Representatives. 
I - I am not referring to Supply Bills, but I say that on questions involving money, such as Tariff questions, the Senate has pressed requests when another place has disagreed with them. We thought that we had good reasons for so doing. The honorable senators to. whom I have referred will agree that there were grave differences of opinion between the two Houses in connexion with which very interesting debates arose, in which recognised constitutional authorities in both Houses took a leading part. After much argument ag to the respective rights of the Senate and the House of Representatives, it was acknowledged in another place that the Senate has almost co-equal rights with that House in money matters! 
I w I wish that this persistent interjector would allow me to put my case in- my own way. From the beginning the Senate has chosen to ecercise ' the undoubted rights given to it under the Constitution. Eventually these rights were recognised by another place. This branch of the Federal Legislature, having a majority in favour of pursuing a certain course, propose to take that course.  Senator de  Largie has said that it is a small majority, but it has been described by the Minister for Works as a " brutal majority." We decided to prefer a request to the House of Representatives and that House has sent the Bill back to the Senate with a message intimating that they refuse to make the amendments requested by the Senate. The Senate will be quite within its constitutional rights in pressing its request. I admit that we ought to give good reasons for doing so, and extremely good reasons were given by  Senator Gardiner.  Senators de Largie and Lynch have based their opposition to the proposal from this side on the ground that it would not give members of this Parliament time in which to take part in the recruiting campaign. They have apparently altogether forgotten the fact mentioned by  Senator Gardiner,  that in the ordinary course of events one-half of the members of the Senate must go to the country some time prior to 30th June next. 
N - No; the writs must be returned before the 30th June. The Government have agreed to undertake that Parliament shall re-assemble on the 27th February. I am quite willing to accept that as a promise that would be kept, if honorable senators on this side chose to give way.- But I say also that it is impossible for us to accept such a suggestion. Every one will agree that candidates for the Senate should have not less than a couple of months in which to canvass their States. 
We We might count back from that date. If the Senate met on the last day of February there would be only one month left for this Parliament to do the work which has to be done. 
What about the Tariff?  . 
From the time we assembled yesterday afternoon to the present moment I have not addressed myself to this Bill, and I would not now have risen but for the fact that the Minister for Works mentioned' my name immediately I vacated the chair upon the return to the chamber of the  Chairman  of Committees. I should like to know exactly what he said concerning me. 
The honorable senator could not make that remark whilst I was filling the position of Acting  Chairman.  But I had scarcely vacated that office when he questioned my vote upon the matter which is immediately under review. 1 do not think that that is extending fair play to an honorable senator who was temporarily relieving a colleague. Let me tell  Senator Lynch,  and the people who have sent me here, why on two occasions I voted as I did in connexion with this request. My object was not to prevent my colleagues from visiting their own State. I wish  Senator Lynch  to let that statement burn into his brain. I have registered my vote as a representative of Western Australia, and I think that I have a right to record it without  Senator Lynch  questioning my motives. 
1 care not whether  Senator Lynch  questions my motives. But it is not characteristic of him to challenge the votes of honorable senators and to attribute motives to them. I voted as I did because I object to the Government being granted too long a recess. I have always adopted a similar attitude, as the pages of  -Hansard  will prove. I object to placing too much power in the hands of the. Executive of the day. On this occasion I registered my vote much more emphatically than I have previously done, because the present Administration does not possess power in either branch of the Legislature. It has not the confidence of "Parliament or of the people. For that reason the Senate, in the exercise of the powers conferred upon it by the Constitution, has requested the other Chamber to limit the grant of Supply to two months. It has been said that those of us who persist in pressing the request are desirous of eluding the recruiting campaign. I come from Western Australia, and I am prepared to take my share in that campaign at any time, irrespective of whether Supply be granted for two, three, or six months. The vote which .1 have registered,' and which' I am prepared to register again, will not prevent me from participating in that campaign. 
I am doing it just as well as is the honorable gentleman. He should at least restrain himself, ' and allow every other honorable senator the liberty of expressing his opinions without his motives being called in question. The request preferred by a majority of this Chamber is a reasonable one. If  Senator Lynch  had met us in a conciliatory spirit, his offer might have been considered. But the offer of the Government merely meant a concession of about four days in the date of the re-assembling of Parliament. 
It is true that the Minister for Works used the words, "or at an earlier date." 
What nonsense it is for the honorablesenator to say that. 
No. Whilst that practice has been adopted since the inception of the war,  Senator Gould  knows perfectly well that the mandate relating to the re-assembling of Parliament comes from the Government. ' 
I quite admit that. But I have learned a very salutary lesson. 
No. I would remind  Senator Keating  that, before any disturbance took place in the ranks of the Labour party, I made a similar statement from the seat which is now occupied by  Senator Senior. 
No, last October. The honorable senator was not in the Commonwealth at the time. It will be seen, therefore, that my salutary lesson has not been suddenly learned. It has gradually grown upon me, as the records of  Hansard  will prove. I intend to aid those honorable senators who propose to press the request to the other branch of the Legislature. 
If that is the construction which the Minister for Works puts on my action, he is welcome to it. 
In answer to the honorable senator's question, I would refer him to  Hansard,  from the pages of which he will learn that I have repeatedly made my position clear. If he had been listening attentively to my remarks, he would have heard what I said only a moment or two ago. I have made my position perfectly clear. 
Thanks. The honorable senator is usually courteous in his interjections. 
Because I have made the statement so often, and have repeated it within the last few minutes. I am at the disposal of the Recruiting Committee of my State at any moment. 
At any time they like to ask me. 
I am at their disposal whenever they want me to go. 
I want to impress on  Senator de  Largie as honestly, courteously, and sincerely as I can, that my action in registering my vote on two occasions, and the fact that I am about to do so again, has nothing to do with the question of recruiting, as imputed to me by the Minister for Works. The whole question, so far as I am concerned, is whether the Government shall come back to meet Parliament when at least some of us think they should do so. From the moment I took. part in these divisions, the question of recruiting never entered my mind, nor is there any desire on my part, by my vote, to prevent recruiting taking place. 
I thank the honorable senator for that. I am not actuated by any motive against recruiting or by the question of whether an election shall take place. The Minister for Works said that  Senator Gardiner,  and those thinking and voting with him, would have to take the responsibility of their action. I am quite prepared to take my responsibility; and if it means facing the electors to-morrow or the next day, I am quite prepared to do so. 
Last night the Minister for Defence told  Senator Findley  that, if he continued to speak, he would deprive the public servants of their pay on 15th December. 
From 3 o'clock yesterday until now, just; as many of the Government party as of this party have spoken; but  Senator Pearce  did not chide any of them for preventing the civil servants being paid to-day. Yet, at a quarter to 12 o'clock yesterday evening, he chided  Senator Findley.  Why did he not chide others, who spoke in support of the Government's proposals ? 
I was not alluding to the honorable senator; but he has interjected, and I have answered him. I should not have risen but for  Senator Lynch's  remarks. In justice to my electors, the Committee, and myself, I have made this ° statement, and am prepared to take the full responsibility of my votes. 
I ask honorable senators to recollect one or two matters before they finalize their judgment. A great deal has been said about the object of denying Supply to the Government being to insure an early resumption of parliamentary duties. That is not the real reason. Honorable senators, if concerned about that, could have made their views known without attempting to curtail one penny of Supply. They had only to ask the Government, which was quite a proper thing to do, and a proper time to do it, when the Supply Bill came forward, to state for what period they contemplated adjourning Parliament. That request would have been perfectly in order, and quite usual; but they did not make it.' They were not concerned to see that Parliament met at a certain time. They .were concerned to humiliate the. Government by denying them Supply. 
There has never been a time when the Senate has sought to deny Supply to the Government.  Senator Gardiner  said he would extend to the Government the same consideration that he gave to other Governments. On' one occasion he gave the Cook Government more than three months' Supply. 
I am simply saying that he and his party gave that Government Supply, and enabled it to shut up Parliament. ' The honorable senator is now denying this Government, of which he was quite recently a member, the consideration which he gave to a Government composed of those whom he would have the country believe to be his political enemies. It is only a subterfuge to say that he is taking this step to insure the early resumption  of parliamentary business. The Leader of the unofficial detached Labour party did not ask the Government the time to which they proposed to adjourn. He simply said, " We will  dock ' Supply." At the same time, he contended that he was prepared to treat the Government with consideration 
I said "dock" and not." stop." We. have heard a great deal about the Senate election. 
It is ah important question, but is this an attempt on the part of the Senate to blackmail the Government by withholding Supply, and so compelling it to extend the life of honorable senators of the first class, who go up for election in the ordinary course in the middle1 of next year ? Is it an attempt to apply pressure to the Government to make it take some action to extend the life of that class ? That point has only now been raised on the second reappearance of the Bill. If it is such an important question as  Senator O'Keefe  says, surely it was equally serious two or ' three hours ago ? It is an afterthought brought up at the present moment. 
It is not a question of suspicion. Only two arguments worthy of the name have been used, today - one that there ought not to be a long adjournment, the other as to the Senate election. I have shown the insincerity of the first, and proved that what the party opposite wanted was an excuse for cutting down Supply. The other argument was equally potent at 9 o'clock this morning, yet no reference was made to it then. This is the first time the Senate has ever attempted to interfere with Supply.  Senator O'Keefe  referred vaguely and mysteriously to requests for alteration which the Senate made in certain money Bills in. the first session of the Parliament, but there is no parallel between the Senate . requesting the raising of the duty from l¼d. to l½d. on cocoa and the Senate attempting to deny Supply to the Government. The actions of the Senate at that time were perfectly legitimate and successful attempts by this Chamber to assert its rights to an effective part in the shaping of the Tariff. 
I have not said so yet. 
It is not. The inference is that they gave the Hughes Government six months' Supply, adjourning the House from November, 1915, to May, 1916. They are not acting to-day on account of any principle, so much as out of a desire to humiliate the Government, with which they have had the misfortune to fall out. , 
If that is a reason, it is a reason for the Senate refusing Supply altogether, instead of reducing it from three to two months. 
Of course not. 
I should hesitate to recommend so tragic a course when I consider the appalling prospect which would confront us on the 31st ofthis month. But there are people to whom the action of the Senate is already appearing in the shape of domestic tragedy. I have received the following wire in the last half-hour: - "No salary received by any postal employees. Distress resulting. Can you please do anything?" 
Is that one of the honorable senator's characteristic and contemptible insinuations that it is not a genuine wire ? The suggestion is so dastardly that not another man in the chamber would have ventured, to make it. I produce a wire which I have just received at . the door of this chamber, and I am told that the whole thing is a fake. I ask the Senate and the country to bear in mind that the only . men who would make insinuations of that kind are those who freely practise them themselves. 
If that is so, why has the honorable senator remained there silent on the matter so long? 
What nonsense it is for the honorable senator to talk like that! We know perfectly. well that there are thousands of persons, in and out of Government employ, who are under the necessity of utilizing their monthly or fortnightly payments the moment they are received. And what is more, there are members of the Senate who, if for some reason or other the Treasury forgot to do its duty at the end of the month, would be inconvenienced. 
I am told that some honorable senators did. not hear the telegram. It reads - 
No salary received by any postal employees to-day. Distress resulting. Can you do anything ? 
Yes; the official who wrote the telegram is attached to a suburban office. I was trying to bring home to the Senate the position in which it will place itself if it persists in the attitude it has taken up. It is, I repeat, the first occasion on which the Senate has ventured to refuse to a Government the Supply which has been asked for. I am not going to say that there might not be circumstances which would not justify the  Senate in taking up that attitude. I do not for a moment place the Senate, with its constitutional standing and rights, upon the level of an ordinary second Chamber. But I do ask honorable senators to remember that, if they elect to come to a conflict with the other Houseit will not be merely a conflict with the Government then - they, as sensible men, must naturally ask themselves what will be the consequences of that' action. I shall say no more on that point, and ask what is the matter in dispute? It is a question of a month's  Supply. We are in the middle of December, and the public servants of this country are not paid. That cannot be disputed, and no one, I venture to say, will contradict the assumption that a large number of the public servants will be in the position of my telegraphic correspondent in the matter of suffering some inconvenience.' The next fortnight of December is a period in which no one suggests that we should meet. It is a holiday, to which we are entitled as well as everybody else. My honorable friends, therefore, are wanting to give the Go,vernment one month's Supply - for January only. If that is the case, weshall meet again possibly in the first week in February. What will happen then? The Government will have to get Supply again up to the 14th February. Assuming that the Supply Bill is brought in, - and the usual discussion takes place in the other House, we shall have the measure brought here probably on the 12th or 13th February, when we shall be in exactly the same position as we always have been in. and that is the position' of being .unable to give to the question of Supply the reasonable attention which its importance demands. 
Unless the Labour party want to meet before- then they must give the Government more Supply than they propose to give them to-day.  Does any one here wish the Senate to meet in January ? ' 
If the Government get two months' Supply only it means that my honorable friends will have to be here early in February. 
The Government cannot, because payments will have to be made on the 14th of the month. 
What is the good of the honorable senator talking like that. The Government brought this Supply Bill into the other House before the 14th of this month, and it is not law yet. When a Government wants to rush a Supply Bill through there is  a natural complaint shared in and voiced by my honorable friends opposite. Now let us get down to dates. Does any one here want the Senate to meet in January ? I venture to say not. Even my honorable friends who object to an unduly long adjournment think that we might reasonably be in recess for January, subject to any emergency which might arise. 
I am trying to point out that the grant of- two months' Supply now means that we ought to meet again by the 7th February. Unless we do meet by that date we shall not have a reasonable opportunity of making Supply available by the 14th or 15th February. 
Those who say that we can meet on the 10th February ought never again to raise their voices here in protest against inadequate time being allowed to deal with a Sunnly Bill. 
And over and over again honorable senators have complained here that they had not an opportunity to deal with the measures. 
If honorable senators say that the passing of Supply here is to be a mere formal matter, and that we can meet a day before it is wanted, let us understand the position well. They will no longer be anxious to take an active part in controlling the finances of this country. If there is any substance in the complaints that we are not allowed an adequate time to deal with Supply, the Senate will have to meet by the 7th February. Let us see what is the alternative. The Government say that they are. willing to meet on the 27th February. Tt is a difference of three weeks only. That is not a question on which the two Houses ought to quarrel, for no question of principle is involved when it comes to a matter of three weeks. It is not even a matter of a month about which my honorable friends are quarrelling. I suggest to them whether, if that is the case, they might not find a reasonable solution of the difficulty by doing now what I think they might have better done in the earlier part of this discussion, and that is asking the Government whether they are willing to meet by a certain date. They did not do it, but it is open to them to do it now. 
My honorable friends can fix the date of meeting for the Senate, but not for the other House. We cannot say when Parliament . shall meet. We can only adjourn to a certain date. If the honorable senator means to take steps to determine when the Senate shall meet, surely he ought to tell other honorable senators what he proposes to do, because it has a bearing upon this discussion ! And, more than that, unless he is looking for some sort of quarrel with the Government, can he not be frank now and tell them on what date we should meet? 
The honorable senator charges me now with a tirade of abuse. He charged me a little while ago practically with having a faked tele gram. I wonder that the words did not scald his lips. It is sheer rank hypocrisy for him to talk like that about abuse on my part. A solution of this difficulty seems to be open to honorable senators. Under one proposal we shall meet on the 7th February, and under the other on the 27th February. Surely there is a  via media  without precipitating either a quarrel between the Houses or without subjecting public servants to one moment's further inconvenience.' I know that  Senator Gardiner  can cross his hands and shrug his shoulders. He is not now in a Ministerial position. Therefore he is not so sympathetic to public servants as he possibly would be if he stood talking to them and soliciting their votes. It is a ridiculous thing to assume that any principle is involved here. There would be a principle involved if my honorable friend said, " We deny Supply to* the Government altogether, because we cannot trust them."But no principle is involved in their saying, " We will give them Supply if they will meet us on the 7th February, but we will . not do so if they want to meet a day later." That is an adjustable period, and we, as sensible men, ought to be able to arrive at a  via media  by which we can settle the matter. It is not for me to make a suggestion. It is not going to place the Senate in a favorable light before the eyes of the electors if, with so small a margin, we fail to arrive at an agreement with the other House. 
 Senator Keating  asked a question of those who he alleges have taken up time by making long speeches. I do not plead guilty to that insinuation, for the simple reason that I speak very, rarely. Since the Senate met, I think that I have'' spoken twice only, and not at what I consider, and think other senators' will consider, an unreasonable length. When wo come to deal with this matterof Supply,  Senator de  Largie, in his usual aggressive style, looks across the chamber and says to honorable senators on this side, "What is it that you want? Do you want a dissolution? If you do, you can have it." We never said a word about a dissolution. ' I remind the honorable senator that we have had nothing but threats of a dissolution from the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence ever since this Parliament met. They have hardly been able to address a meeting outside or speak in Parliament without uttering such a threat. We have not attempted to shirk the possibility of a dissolution. We have merely replied to the statements of these honorable gentlemen, " All right. If you bring along a dissolution we are quite prepared to. meet the position. We are not going to throw any obstacles in your way if you deem it necessary to appeal to the people." That is the answer to the threat.  Senator Millen  wants to know if we desire to blackmail the Government. Most decidedly not. I think it was an ill-advised term which he used, and he is not in the habit of using such terms. Why should we want to blackmail the Government? The honorable senator says that we are endeavouring to induce the Government to extend, the term of those members of the Senate who  willhave to retire early next year. We are doing nothing of the sort. That matter has been talked over, and I believe it has been mentioned in another place. I presume that the Government are well aware of the conditions set out in the Constitution,' and are taking whatever steps they deem to be best. We have not proffered any request to them to extend the term. They will have it in their power to hold two elections next year. Whether that will meet with the approval of the people of Australia or not, I do not know. If the Government are going to talk economy, and then say that they have money to burn in holding elections twice in one year, the people will begin to doubt their  bona fides.  When the Government tell us that they desire to prevent extravagance in the Departments, and intend to cut down all unnecessary expenditure, the public outside will think it strange if, instead of spending only £100,000. on an .election this year, "for both Houses, they intend to spend £200,000, because they think they might get some sort of party advantage out of an election for the Senate. I did not think any honorable senator would wittingly use the term " blackmail "' as far as we are concerned, because blackmail usually means that the persons making the demand get consideration in some shape or form'. So far, we have not attempted to do anything, of that sort.  Senator Millen  says that this is the first time the Senate has refused Supply to a Government, and he taunts members with having once given Supply for a longer term to the Government of which he was a member. Evidently we made 'a mistake on that occasion, but instead of commending us for having agreed to his request, he is now chiding us. Apparently we made a blunder, and if ever the honorable senator is at the head of another Government in this Chamber, and asks for Supply for a similar period, honorable senators who may be here will surely take into consideration what he said to-day. 
It is true we did give Supply for a longer period to the previous Hughes' Government, but they represented a homogeneous party in the Parliament, and practically controlled the destinies of this country. Supply for that longer period was granted then because  Mr. Hughes  was going to the Old Country, and it was believed he would be able to do a great deal of good there. Personally, I voted against  Mr. Hughes'  visit to Great Britain. I believed then that I was right, and I believe now that it would have been much better had I secured the assistance of a majority of members of my party.  Senator Millen  also stated it has been the custom to give Supply for long periods. No one knows better than  Senator Millen  that that' is not true. The honorable senator could afford to lay a wager, and give long odds,, that the largest number of Supply Bills granted in this Parliament have been for a period of two months. 
I am considering the altered circumstances, and considering also a number of incidents in connexion with the present Government that have been already referred to, but which I will not mention again. That is the reason why members of the Labour party desire to have an early meeting of Parliament. Who has complained more bitterly than  Senator Millen-  about government by regulation? We have had good cause of late to realize the justice of his remarks on many occasions,, when he warned us that government by regulation would eventually lead to the undoing of Parliament. The honorable senator was right, and we were wrong. But is there any reason why we should not mend our ways? Members of the Senate have realized the mistake they made when they neglected the advice so freely tendered to them by  Senator Millen,  so he should not complain now if they see the error of their ways, and are prepared to accept the advice which he has given on many former occasions. If the honorable senator realizes that we have become repentant, he should commend, and not condemn, us. Complaints have been made by almost every honorable member of the Parliament, even with two months' Supply, that unless we meet in good time we are not able to give the necessary attention to a discussion of the Estimates. We have had two days on the Estimates' on the present occasion, following a debate on a motion for the printing of a paper, which enabled honorable senators to talk upon almost every subject under the sun. 
It gave the only opportunity available to honorable senators who had not spoken on the previous debate: and  Senator Lynch  admits that there was some ground for our complaint and for the motion moved. 
Yes, the . honorable senator said there was some ground, though it might not be of a substantial nature, for the action taken, and he then went on to say he would compromise by agreeing that Parliament should meet on the 27th February. 
The object of the motion ' was to insure the meeting of Parliament on an earlier date. We have come to the opinion, as a result of experience, that it would be better for us to get back to the usual custom of granting two months' Supply, and the offer made by  Senator Lynch  means, merely, that instead of coming back in the first week in March we shall come back in the last week in February. Even if the Government had three months' Supply, we would have to come back in the first week in March to enable Parliament to pass Supply by the middle of March for salaries and the ordinary requirements of the Government. 
I think  Senator Gardiner  was in error, because further Supply would have to be obtained by the middle of March. I am sure that every honorable senator regrets that  Senator Millen  was able to produce to the Senate a telegram stating that in his. constituency there was distress in the family of some of his constituents, because they did not receive their pay yesterday. No one wants to prevent the Public Service from obtaining their salaries at the proper time. But whose fault is it? It certainly is not the fault of the Labour party. We cannot be held responsible, because we have said to the Government, " There is two months' Supply, you can pay the public servants and provide for all the ordinary needs for the period mentioned." That could have been voted early this morning, and there need not have been any disorganization in the household of any public servant in Australia. 
That does not seem to me to be a fair way of putting it. Another honorable senator reminded us that this is the festive season. Well I should very much like to be able to get to my home for Christmas. I do not see my family except when Parliament is in recess, for my people live in Brisbane, and it will take me two or three days to get there after the Senate rises. But independent of my anxiety to spend Christmas with my family, I owe a duty to the electors who sent me here. Whether . it means that I shall spend Christmas, and even the New Year holiday, in Melbourne or not, I am prepared to fulfil my duty to the electors rather than betray the trust they have reposed in me. That is the way in which I have always regarded the duty of the parliamentarian. Other men have to suffer inconvenience who are not so well circumstanced or so highly remunerated - as are members of this Parliament, and whose families are not so well provided for as are those of most of the members of the 
Senate. But they have to do the duty they have undertaken to do for the remuneration they receive. Members of Parliament do not differ from other mem-  bers of the community. We are sent here to do certain work, whether its performance involves inconvenience or not. We must do the work for which we are paid. Another matter to which some reference should be made is the question of recruiting. I have already said that I am prepared to do all that I. can in that matter. I made that abundantly plain in my speech on the motion for the printing . of the Ministerial statement. I believe that most members of this Parliament are prepared to take their share of the work of recruiting. The reference which has been made to the subject is but another of the cries which we have so frequently heard in Australia during the last month or two. Men who have been unable to see eye to eye with the Government have been called names which those who have thus referred to them must havebeen ashamed of immediately afterwards. I hold that no one has any right to question the loyalty of members of this Parliament or their willingness to assist in bringing to an end the tragedy that is going on, at the "present time, on the other side of the world. The matter of the election has been referred to, and it should be considered seriously. The Government have offered to call Parliament together at the end of February. The election must take place, in the ordinary course, about the end of May. Every one has recently complained that insufficient time was given for the proper conduct of the referendum campaign. It has been said that if more time had been at the disposal of those taking part in the campaign, there would have been a different result. Seeing that we would come back here at the end of February, if the Government offer were accepted, what time would we have to do the work of legislation which requires to be done? There would be only one month left in which to do all this work. It is impossible to canvass the State I represent in two months or in three months. Candidates must have even a longer time if they wish to do effective work in connexion with an election in that State. I do not think that the Government would be justified in asking members of this Parliament to remain here until probably the end of April, knowing that there must be an election about the end of May. 
I do not think so when there is an election in the distance. Another aspect of the question deserves consideration. Do the Government propose to allow those engaged in the tragedy on the other side of the world, to which I have referred, .to have a say in the ensuing election ? They are in Egypt, Arabia, Flanders, and in the British Isles, and if the proposal of the Government were accepted, no opportunity would be afforded these men to record their votes - an opportunity which they would have if they had not gone to the front in defence of the Empire. I think that a reasonable offer has been made to the Government. 
The Supply Bill ordinarily passed at this time of the year covers only two months' Supply. The Government say that they want three months' Supply. We say that there are considerable objections to granting that, and we offer them two months' Supply. Then we are told of distress and disorganization in the families of public servants. The Government do not think it wise to accept the offer that is made to them, and, if accepted, it would' give ready relief to the families ,of public servants who may require it. 
 It will be admitted that during this session of Parliament, which has now extended for over two years, the adjournments, both in the matter of number and length, have been abnormal. Just prior to this time last year, the Senate was considering a proposal that Parliament should adjourn for six or seven months, to permit the Prime Minister to go upon what I described at the time as his selfinvited trip to Great Britain. I hold the view I then expressed of that trip more firmly to-day. These abnormal adjournments are undesirable at any time, and particularly in time of war. If there is a time when it is necessary that the people's representatives should keep a tight rein upon the management of the affairs of the country, it is a time of war. Honorable senators will agree with me that the adjournments of the Imperial Parliament have been comparatively very short. Since the outbreak of the war, that Parliament has, to all- intents and purposes,  been continuously sitting. The proposal of the Government for a grant of Supply for three months is met by this party with an offer of Supply for two months-. If  Senator Lynch  is of opinion that some odium will attach to the members of this party for their action, I do not think that any of them will try to escape their responsibility. Almost every member of the Senate who has supported the Government has expressed the opinion that no principle is involved in the matter in dispute1. It is suggested that honorable senators on this aide are merely quibbling about a matter of three weeks' time, but it appears to me that there is a really very vital principle involved in the attitude we take up. We object to government by regulation. We do npt think it is right that, the National Parliament should give the present Government freedom of action during an extended period to issue regulations which may be objectionable. Let me give a concrete instance, in order to bring home to honorable senators the significance of this reference. It will be remembered that only on Wednesday of last week a majority of the Senate annulled a regulation issued by the Government. It related to restrictions upon the publication of newspapers embodied in the censorship. The censorship at that time, and for some months previously, had been of such a character as to be a public scandal. That is universally admitted from the point of view of the press. 
That is so; and country newspapers had some experience of its operation. Although the regulation was annulled by the Senate, the Government showed no concern about what we had done. In one newspaper, on the following day, a reference to the matter was headed,  "Mr. Hughes  not Perturbed." The paragraph in question went on to point out that  Mr. Hughes  was not concerned about the action of the Senate, because he said he could pass another regulation, and need not have it tabled in Parliament straight away. As soon as it was issued it- would have the force of law, though not .confirmed or reviewed by either House of this Parliament. In the Library a few minutes ago I turned up the  Herald  of 8th December last. It contained a reference to the action of the Senate in regard to the evils of the censorship, and. went on to point out that that action might not prove very effective. One of its cross-headings was, " A Way to Circumvent," and this journal then proceeded to state that the Ministry could circumvent the action of the hostile section in this Chamber by passing regulations which would come into operation forthwith, and bv not hurrying their: submission to Parliament. 
Yes, that was: the answer of the (Government to the, action taken by this Chamber. 
It goes to show the danger of vesting undue powers in the Government, and especially of vesting them in  Mr. Hughes.  It goes to show that the Government might conceivably issue fresh regulations which would have the effect of aggravating the existing evils. We say that it is not fair that such undue power should be vested in the Government for a longer period than can possibly be avoided. I contend that our party is the only party in this Parliament which has a majority in either House. It has been urged as an alternative to our request that under the Government proposal Parliament may be summoned at the instance of  Mr. Speaker  and the  President,  either when Supply for three months has been exhausted, or at an earlier date. But we know that ever since the present session opened, Parliament has been called together only at the very last moment which would admit of the replenishment of Supply. Complaint has been made that our public servants have not received their salaries for the past fortnight. But the Government are entirely to blame in connexion with that matter. There was nothing to prevent them calling Parliament together at an earlier date. The same thing will possibly recur if we do not press our request. Our responsibility is great in this regard. Honorable senators have bad experience of the adaptability of  Mr. Hughes  in the matter of issuing regulations. I do not think that  Senator Millen  will justify his action in that regard. 
I did not. know that. But I waa aware that the particular regulation to which I took exception on a previous occasion had operated in the case of the Queensland  Hansard.  It was only when I referred to the matter in this Chamber that the embargo was lifted. Probably a similar ventilation of our views here would result in no harm. The times are abnormal. Drastic changes have recently taken place in the  personnel  of the Cabinet, and the whole system of government is undergoing a great alteration. We must exercise every care to prevent the control of the Government passing out of the hands of the representatives of the people for an unduly long period.  Senator Gardiner's  amendment is intended to accomplish this. If the Government proposal had been adopted, the dangers to which I have already referred would have been aggravated instead of being lessened. It is in the interests of the people as a whole that as tight a rein as possible should be kept upon any Government in a time like the present. If there be any odium attaching to such action, I am prepared to accept my share of it. The extent of our constituencies has already been touched upon. Queensland is a State of magnificent distances, and during the approaching electoral campaign I think that candidates for the Senate should be afforded a reasonable opportunity of covering them. I have had some experience in this connexion. During my first Federal campaign I was travelling continuously for seventeen weeks in sugar trains, cattle trains, timber trains, and every other kind of train, and yet there were three large sections of Queensland which I had not time to visit. I submit that the offer which has been made by  Senator Gardiner  has been made in all sincerity, and should be accepted by the Government. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.30 till 8 p.m. (Friday). 

According to a sub-leader in one of to-day's papers,, the censorship system costs about £30,000 a year, and the issue of another regulation may add to that useless expense. 
On the 18th December, 1914, a Supply Bill for four months was passed. On the 13th November, 1915, a Supply Bill for six months- was passed. 
In the circumstances, therefore, we are "entitled to three months' Supply at the very least. 
They should not interfere. 
I think it could. Party politics will be quite out of the question, and the time we shall have when we come back will be ample to do the work put before us.. We should not forget the important work of recruiting, of which we must make as great a success as possible. For that reason, as much time ought to be devoted to it as can be given. It is most unreasonable to expect us to to do this work in Western Australia, with its immense distances, in the time which will be available if only two months' Supply is granted. I had bespoken a passage by the boat which leaves Adelaide to-morrow. If I could have got away from Melbourne to-night I could have done a great deal more- than it will be possible for me to do now. All I have now fs the promise of a passage by a steamer leaving Adelaide much later. If there is going to be any recruiting work done in Western Australia, the Western Australian Federal members must take part in it, for it is their work, first and foremost. 
I can hardly believe that statement. Twelve months ago Western Australia had the biggest percentage of enlistments of all the States, but I think recruits can still be got there. It will all take . time, and we canhot get to Western Australia before the first week in January, and will practically have to book our passages back again as soon as we arrive. Good reasons ought to be given for putting us in that predicament. We have no right to ignore the wish of a very big majority in another place. The majority for the requestin this Chamber is only two, and should not dictate to the majority in another place. 
I do not see much, difference between a majority of one there and a majorityof two here. . On this occasion we see thirty-two members, trying to dominate fifty-two- members. Is that reasonable? 
No one can accuse me of not doing the fair thing in connexion with pairs, but the fact remains that  Senator Gardiner  has not an absolute majority, of the Senate. If he had, his argument would be more sound. 
Even at. the eleventh hour I appeal to  Senator Gardiner  and his colleagues to reconsider their position. We require the support of every Federal member to make a success of the voluntary sys tern, which is now the policy of the Government. The 'arguments of the other side are contradictory. On the one hand we are told that it is not wise to trust the Government for any length of time unless under the closest scrutiny of Parliament.  Senator Findley  tells us that we are cutting down works unwarrantably, and now  Senator Ferricks  thinks we may indulge in a wild orgie of expenditure, particularly on the censorship. The two things cannot be reconciled. 
SenatorLYNCH. - My honorable friends cannot have it both ways. The Government expect to receive the hearty support of every honorable member of Parliament in the coming effort to make a success of the voluntary system of recruiting. We have reduced the length of time to a bedrock minimum. We have guaranteed to summon Parliament for the 27th February - I should have said the 28th February - or for an earlier date as the  President  may think fit. In order to further induce honorable senators to come to their senses, we are prepared to reduce that period by seven days more, and guarantee that Parliament shall meet on the 21st February. If they are not prepared to accept that offer, all I can say is that there is no hope of getting a settlement on the issue. I ask  Senator Gardiner  to accept this as a final and reasonable offer on the part of the Government to enable this Supply Bill to be passed as was originally intended, and also to convenience honorable members of Parliament who honestly want to see this country put forth its proper strength in the war by means of the voluntary system. If they say, and they have said it over and over again, that we are thrust back on that system, it is quite clear that the duty of every public man in this country is to devote his full time to the purpose of influencing the public mind and those who can come forward to take their place in the battle line. I trust that  Senator Gardiner  and his followers will recognise the reasonableness of this final proposal, and accept it. It is the irreducible minimum so far as the Government are concerned. 
So far I have not ventured to say a word on this question. I think that it will be admitted that the position is one which we, as men, can meet. We say to honorable senators who supported the request, that' we are anxious to do the nation's work by helping on the recruiting movement, and it is for them to say whether we shall do that work or not. I am very anxious to do all that I can to obtain recruits. From the gentleman who has control of recruiting I have received a letter asking. me when I can place my services at the disposal of the Recruiting Committee. I have to hold up the letter until Parliament rises, so that I can tell this gentleman exactly when I can go. From the receipt of my reply, of course, some time must elapse before I can enter into the campaign. If this request is pressed, we shall have very little more than four weeks at our disposal for that purpose. If we are required to canvass the whole of Australia in four weeks, and do our duty in this matter, it will press hard upon us, because the work cannot be done thoroughly unless every place is fully organized. We ask honorable senators to accept the proposal of the Government, because, the nation wants our services in another direction. I do not wish to say one word with the slightest tinge of unkindness. If, however, honorable senators withhold our services from the nation's work outside, we are in their hands, and the people must be the judges. I do not desire . to enter into a long argument, because it is not a question of principle which is involved. I put it to the Leader of the Labour Opposition that when the Cook Government were in power, and we had a larger majority than we have to-day, he was quite willing, with others, to give that Government a very much longer recess than is asked for by the present Government. And, of course, there was no occasion to use that recess as we desire to use the recess which is now sought. I do not know whether honorable senators feel that this is any argument, but, to my mind, it is a very strong one, because again and again honorable senators put up the plea, when they were in Opposition, that the Cook Ministry had comparatively a very small following here, and we exercised the power we had in a spirit of generosity and a spirit of mercy. Surely it will not be said that to-day my honorable friends refuse to give to their old comrades what they did not fail to give to those to whom they were in direct and violent opposition. If they decline to accept the proposal of the Government, the news will go out to the people of Aus- . tralia, and they will be the judges between us. When.it is not a principle which is at stake, but just a matter of gratifying feeling that they have won, the victory will be worth very little indeed, because some of us will probably have to appeal very shortly to the public. They are very keen judges on public questions, and they can unmistakably see farther than, perhaps, we give them credit for. I have not ventured to put in this plea earlier, that my honorable friends should put aside for the time being, at any rate at this period of the year, the feeling that this would be a victory for us. We belong to one nation; we have a nation's work to do, and let us take up that work as men should do. We are asking of honorable senators no more than they would have the right to ask of us in similar circumstances. We are not asking for a concession to us individually, but we are asking for time to be used for the nation's benefit. My honorable - friends pleaded that sufficient volunteers can be obtained to meet the demands. I believe that they were sincere in expressing that view, and if they are sincere, how can they withhold from us the time that is necessary to make the campaign effective? If they fail to give us the necessary time, we -can have nothing more to say, and they must take the responsibility. We shall have done all that we could to secure what we believed to be for the best interests of Australia. 
.- The Government are not quite satisfied with, regard to the prospective work to be done by the Senate, and I would suggest that the sitting be suspended, in order to ascertain the position in the other House. 
In view of the state of business, and also the request of the Government, and to meet the convenience of honorable senators, I shall suspend the sitting of the Senate till 9.15 p.m., at which hour I shall resume the chair. 

 Sitting suspended from 8.32 p.m. to 9.15 p.m. (Friday). 

[9.191. - In moving 
That this Bill be now read a second time, 
I desire to point out that it is a radical alteration from the measure previously discussed, so far as the amount to be voted is concerned. No effort on my part is required to urge on honorable senators the acceptance of the Bill, and, if only its passage will serve to relieve the anxiety existing on the part of Commonwealth employees throughout the country, it will be well to pass the Bill without delay. 
.- I am glad that the Bill has reached us in its present form, and I can assure the Minister that, so far as I am concerned, there will be no difficulty in passing it. I merely want to say that, throughout the sitting, we have endeavoured with all possible speed to meet the wishes of the Government with regard to Supply for the payment of the Commonwealth public servants. 
There appear to be some mysterious illusions about the Bill which I desire to brush away. At an earlier stage we granted this Government two months' Supply, and we sent on the Bill with a notification to that effect to the other Chamber. There are certain constitutional consequences of an act of that kind, and I should like to know whether you,  Mr. President,  have received any intimation as to the fate of the previous Bill? 
If that be so, there should be found some record of it in the proceedings of this Chamber. As every honorable senator knows, if' the matter had been dropped at the point at which it stood before I rose to speak, the records of the Senate would have been absolutely silent as to the fate of that Bill. I want to state what I assume to be the position. The Bill sent from the other House to this Chamber asked for three months' Supply, and was returned with requests from this Chamber to the other House, which' has declined to accede to the requests. Have the Government abandoned that Bill, and sent up in lieu of it a Bill for two months' Supply ? I assume that to be the position, and I have spoken merely that there . shall be a record of what is being done here, because it is undesirable that this should constitute a precedent, and that the incident should be allowed to pass without a permanent record in the proceedings of the Senate. 
Order ! The honorable senator is not in order in discussing any other Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without request. 
I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
In doing so, I desire to state, for the information of honorable senators, that I have ascertained from the Leader of the Government in another place that the business to be presented to this Chamber is expected to be ready in the morning, and, if honorable senators apply themselves to their labour, we have every hope  that we will bring the work of this sit- " ting of Parliament to a close to-morrow. 
The business includes a Bill for daylight saving, a Bill to legalize marriage by proxy, and a further measure dealing- with certain developments in the industrial life of this country. These are non-contentious measures, and there are other items of business of a minor character. It is the earnest hope of the Leader of the Government in another place that we will bring our labours to a close to-morrow, but this, of course, will entirely depend upon the tone, temper, and inclination of honorable senators. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber will endeavour to deal with the measures as expeditiously as possible. 
I wish to ask the Minister for Works if, by to-morrow,, when it is hoped that our labours for this year will be concluded, the Government will be in a position to reply to a question which I put onthe notice-paper a day or two ago in connexion with the alleged cancellation of an order by the ex-Minister for Home Affairs granting free railway passes for life to Ministers of the Crown and to exPresidents and ex-Speakers of this Parliament? The reply which I received from  Senator Pearce  was that the Government had cancelled the order as far as it applied to the granting of such passes to exPresidents and ex-Speakers, but that the order, so far as it applied to gentlemen who had been Ministers of the Crown for twelve months, was still under consideration. I should like to know from the Minister for Works whether he will to-morrow be in a position to state definitely whether it is the intention of the Government to grant to gentlemen who have served for twelve months as Ministers of the Crown free railway passes for life ? 
I should like to be quite clear as to what business is contemplated for tomorrow. The Minister for Works has indicated that there are certain proposals which the Government desire to put through, and that, concurrently with them, thereis a desire, and intense hope, that we shall be able to conclude our labours to-morrow. Our only possible chance of doing sp is for . the Government to adopt a course of action different fromthat which they have adopted during the. present sitting. That is to say, they must make up their minds, before they come to this Chamber, as to what they want. They should not press upon the consideration of the Senate measures which will occupy time, when, after all is said and done, they do not regard it as essential that they should be carried into law this side of Christmas. 
There is evidence of that. I do not appreciate having to attend during an all-night sitting to engage in what, after all, appears to have been a piece of Ministerial , bluff. I do not mind supporting the Government, but I am reluctant to be detained in this chamber merely to march up a hill and then march down again. I wish to direct attention to what the Senate is to be asked to do to-morrow. There is the Daylight Saving Bill, and the Bill to deal with the Industrial Workers of the World. 
Yes, my honorable friend's old friends. There is a Bill to make provision for marriage by proxy, and -no less than four taxation Bills have been mentioned. 
There is the wealth levy, the war profits tax, the income tax, and the amusement tax. 
So far as the business for to-morow has yet to be announced, there is no land tax. I think that honorable senators would appreciate an intimation from the Minister for Works as to whether it is intended to proceed with the whole four taxation measures. 
Then all I have to say is that if there be even a pretence of carrying through the four taxation measures, and the other three measures to which I have referred, there is not the slightest hope that we shall be able to close to-morrow. It is an insult to the intelligence of the Senate to ask it to approach the consideration of a programme of that kind in the space of a few hours. The Minister will destroy any chance of getting any of these measures through if he attempts to overload the business-paper bo-morrow to that extent. He must  do one of two things: He must tell the Senate frankly which of these measures the Government are content shall remain for consideration till after Christmas, and ask the Senate to address itself to the remainder. If, on the other hand, he desires to put the whole of the business through, he cannot hope that our labours will be concluded to-morrow. 
I hope that, in his reply, the Minister for Works will express his willingness to take into consideration the industrial position of honorable members of the Senate. The great concern of people outside Parliament to-day is that they should not be asked to work for more than forty-four hours per week. We have been working here for thirty and a half  hours in one shift. Will the Minister take . into consideration the advisability, if we meet to-morrow, of agreeing to knock off at 12 o'clock, so that honorable senators may have the Saturday afternoon at their' own disposal? I agree with  Senator Millen  that the programme , of business outlined by  Senator Lynch  for to-morrow has no chance of being passed. We might just as well make up our minds to that. It would be very much better if the Leader of the Labour party, so-called, had candidly faced the position, and asked the Minister for Works not to call honorable senators together to-morrow. The honorable senator and his party have done their level best to prevent those of us who come from far-distant places arriving at our homes in time to enjoy with our families the Christmas festivities. Instead of looking for his train to-morrow night, he should have advised the Government that he was prepared to forego at least a little of his own liberty and leisure in order that other persons might obtain the relaxation they desire. 
.- I shall not get angry with  Senator Henderson  after the very lengthysitting through which he has passed. But I cannot allow the publication of a statement which would put upon my shoulders any responsibility for the delay of' any of the' business in the Senate. I entirely repudiate any responsibility for that delay. The whole of the remarks I made upon the Supply Bill did not occupy more than about twenty minutes. 1 was in and out the chamber throughout the sitting. I did not seek rest, and shared its inconvenience with other honorable members of the Senate. I tried to do for other honorable members of the Senate' what, unfortunately, the boat arrangements made it impossible for us to do for  Senator Henderson.  I knew nothing about the arrangements for the Western ' Australian boat when I suggested to the Government that an effort should be made to finish up the business this week. The members of our party had a perfect right to speak upon financial matters, but they did not do so at any greater length than did honorable senators on the other side. In the circumstances, it is not fair of  Senator Henderson  to try to put upon me an imputation of the kind he has suggested. I resent it, hut I forgive the honorable senator, knowing that he has had a very trying time in the Chair. 
.- As it appears to be the desire of honorable senators to go on with the work, I would ask the Minister whether we could not sit for six hours this evening, come back here to-morrow morning at 8 o'clock, and go on with the work until about 3 in the afternoon ? 
Why should wet How many hours' has the Senate sat during the week, or during the year? We should look at the matter fairly, and admit that we have Bat only for a very limited number of hours. There is no reason why we should not go on with three or four of the Bills that have been mentioned until perhaps 5 o'clock in the morning, and then finish them to-morrow. 
I understood that some of them were ready to place before the Senate. 
In view of the probability of the conclusion of our business to-morrow, it is unreasonable to expect the members of the Government to answer questions, unless some indication of their nature is given this evening. I propose to ask a couple of questions to-morrow, and, as I should like . to have them answered if possible, I shall indicate their nature. I propose to ask: Are there any persons now in gaol serving sentences for offences under the Military Service Proclamation? If so, will the Government take into consideration the advisability of liberating them before Christmas? The other question I wish to ask is: Is it the intention of the Government, as stated in the  Herald  of the 8th inst., to re-enact regulation No. 204, under the War Precautions Act, which was recently disallowed by the Senate I 

 Senator Lt.-Colonel Sir ALBERT GOULD (New South Wales) [9.44].- I think that the Minister for Works will, find that the quickest way to deal with' business in the Senate will be to limit it to what the Government consider urgent and absolutely necessary. The honorable senator has said that it is proposed to deal with measures to impose new taxation. Thesemust necessarily give rise to a considerable amount of debate. The measures have not yet been dealt with in' another place, -and we are told that we shall be asked to d«al to-morrow with the measures providing for the war levy, income tax, war profits tex, and the amusement tax. That is a sufficient programme of work to occupy the Senate ordinarily for a week.  It is unreasonable to expect to rush such proposals' through the: Senate in a few hours. . They will require careful consideration at the hands of honorable senators, who must justify later on the votes they record upon them. I protest against any attempt to rush so many vitally important Bills through this Chamber in the course of a few hours. The members of the Government know the measures which they consider urgent, and they should ask us to deal with nothing more. They have said that it is the desire of the 'Government to get the measures providing for the income tax and the amusement tax through before we rise. Surely there should be sufficient business to keep the Senate occupied for some hours. Seeing that honorable senators have been sitting continuously for a prolonged period, I hope that the Government will treat them with a reasonable degree of consideration. In my judgment, it would be a fair thing if we met to-morrow, and dealt only with those mat,ters to which adequate consideration could be given, and allowed the remainder of the business to stand over till next week. 
.- In reply to  Senator Needham  's question, I wish to say that the matter of the ' issue of free railway passes to certain persons has not yet been finalized. It is quite true that there was a misunderstanding in regard to the issue of these passes, and before the matter is definitely determined it will be debated at the Premiers' Conference.  Senator Needham  will understand that this branch of the Legislature has been sitting continuously for thirty hours, and that, therefore, I have had no opportunity of obtaining, the desired information for him. I will, however, endeavour to secure it to-morrow. In answer to. the remarks of  Senator Millen,  I quite admit that honorable senators are asked to face ' a rather formidable bill of fare to-morrow. But  Senator Millen  must recognise that this Government occupies a unique position. Whilst it proposes,, a section of the Opposition in this chamber disposes - and disposes very effectively. So long as we are faced with such conditions, we cannot be as entirely responsible for the expeditious transaction of business as we otherwise would be. At present the Government are victims of circumstances. We have not a majority in this Chamber, and, therefore, too much cannot be expected' of us. Regarding the observations of  Senator Grant,  I believe that I am expressing the feelings of honorable senators when I say that we have had a fairly long' day. It has not been a question of eight hours from bank to bank. At the same time, I think that honorable senators are in a mood to deal expeditiously with the business which the Government intend to bring forward. Those in the trenches are very much worse off than we are. If we constantly realize that, we shall be assisted  to think less severely about our own lot. Those men are very much worse off than we are, and, at the same time, are not getting the sympathy to which they are entitled. I will endeavour to obtain replies to-morrow to the questions outlined by  Senator Mullan. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 9.51 p.m. (Friday). 
Is the Minister for Works in a position to answer the questions that I put to him last evening in regard to the men who have been imprisoned for non-compliance with the Military Service Proclamation, and in regard to the regulations which were disallowed by the Senate! 
There has not been  sufficient time for procuring the information, but I shall endeavour to obtain it for tha next day of sitting. 

 -(By leave).- I wish, by way of personal explanation, to draw attention to the following passage in the  Argus,  report of the Senate's proceedings yesterday: - 
Tho debate on a motion by  Senator McDougall  (N.S.W.) in favour of the establishment by the Government of works for the manufacture of all the electric cables it required was continued by  Senator Gardiner.  A motion by the Minister for Works  (Senator Lynch)  to adjourn the debate was negatived by  18  votes to  15;  but almost directly afterwards, when a Caucus member,  Senator Beady,  moved "a similar motion, it was agreed to without discussion. That report is absolutely incorrect.  Senator Millen  rose - after the Minister, and asked me to accept an  Adjournment  of the debate, as he wished to bear the arguments. To that I agreed, and allowed the debate to be adjourned. The  Argus  report makes it appear that my intention was to harass the Government, but it waa nothing of the sort. . I moved the motion some time, ago, so that Ministers had ample time for preparing information in refutation of what I said as to the advisability of establishing the factory. My wish was to get a vote on the question, not to embarrass the Government; but,  at  Senator Millen's  request, I was willing to have the matter adjourned. 
In view of the fact that certain persons who were imprisoned under the military service pro  clamation, which has been withdrawn, on whose behalf representations were made to the Defence Department, have been, released from gaol, will the Minister take into consideration the advisability of releasing other persons imprisoned for the same offence on whose behalf' no representations or influence has been used  1 
I understood  Senator Blakey  to be' desirous of getting an intimation from the Minister that influence would not be allowed. 
Will the honorable senator kindly repeat the question at a later datel 
Yesterday I asked whether the representatives of the Government will ascertain whether the Attorney-General's Department has decided to take action against  Mr. Gilchrist  because of the representations made in the report of Judge Eagleson ? 
The AttorneyGeneral's Department is stall giving attention to the matter; but it has not yet come to a decision. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General,   upon notice - 
Coes the prohibiting of the use of the word  "Anzac"  apply- to private residences? 
Yes. 
The answers are - 
The price now paid to producers of such minerals is - 
For wolfram, on the basis of 48s.1d., at Sydney,  ex  rail or ship; and 
For molybdenite, on the basis of 93s. l0d. at Sydney,  ex  rail or ship. 
Wolfram and molybdenite were requisitioned on behalf, of the Imperial Government  by  the Commonwealth Government on 0th September, 1915. 
The price has been, and the price now paid, is a fixed price. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy - 
Is it a fact that the following employees of the Navy Department have been victimized after doing thirty days' training under the recent proclamation :  - 
George Harris, hairdresser, employed on H.M.S.  Tingira  for two years; 
G. Barnes, clerk, employed at the Naval Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, for three years; (3)R. Dore, clerk, employed at the Naval Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, for fifteen months ? 
Inquiries are being made, and the information will be furnished as soon as available. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that a number of post-offices in Tasmania, which were entitled to be raised in classification under  Mr. Justice  Powers' award, from 1st January, 1916, have not been so advanced ? 
Are postmasters in Tasmania receiving differential treatment from those of the mainland; if so, why? 
Will the, Postmaster-General take immediate steps to see that the Judge's award is honored in Tasmania as well as in the other States? 
Should any cases be found where officers should have been raised from 1st January, 1916, and have not been, will the Deputy PostmasterGeneral be instructed that those who have been performing the duties are paid for all back time at the proper rate? 
Inquiries are being made, and replies will be furnished as early as possible. 
asked the. Assistant Minister  (Senator Russell)  upon notice - 
Will he obtain from the prices Commissioner of Tasmania  (Mr. G. F. Martin)  a return showing the number of commodities of which prices have been fixed, the former and fixed prices, and the estimated saving to the people of Tasmania, and lay same 'on the table of the Library? 
Yes. 
I understand that the Government do not desire to continue the debate : to-day, and, therefore, I ask leave to resume my remarks on a future occasion. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
By leave, I should like to make a personal explanation. I have no objection to  Senator Ready  proceeding with his speech on the motion. He has apparently abandoned his right to discuss it. 
We are prepared to listen to  Senator Ready  or any other honorable senator discussing the motion. 
I have no desire, as a member of the Government, to be placed in a false position. The Government have no objection to the discussion upon the Ministerial statement being proceeded with now. 
 Senator Ready  is not entitled to continue his speech now, because he obtained the leave of the Senate to continue it on the next day of sitting. 
The proper course is for the Minister leading the Senate to place the Government business,. He could move that the debate be an order of the day for the next day of sitting, or for some other day. 
I should like to know whether there is any serious intention of going on with this business. I do not believe that there is. If we have no business to do, the best course to take is to make a report from the Committee, and leave it to the Government to say whether, in the circumstances, they ought not to move the adjournment of the Senate. We all know whathas happened elsewhere, and the only thing for us to do now is for the Committee to report to the Senate, and then for the Senate to adjourn till there is business to occupy its attention. 
Progress reported. 
.- I would ask the Minister for Works whether there is any advantage in adjourning until Monday, if when we meet on Monday we shall be in the same position we are in to-day. In fixing the date for the resumption of sittings after the adjournment, I would suggest that as we are nearing the Christmas holidays the Government should take up those measures which have some prospect of being quickly dealt with, and should leave debatable measures until later. 
I do not know what is happening in connexion with another place, or whether it is the desire of the Government to go on with' some of the measures which have been sent to the Senate. I suppose that most of us would like to spend Christmas at our own homes, but unless I can get away from Melbourne on Tuesday I need not go at all, as I should otherwise be unable to reach the place where I live before Christmas. I would like to know from  Senator Lynch  if it is possible for the Senate to rise on Tuesday. 
The reason why we are asked, within a few minutes of our attending to-day, to adjourn till Monday, is that no business has been received from another place. By 3 o'clock on Monday will circumstances have so developed that we shall have received some business . from another place? 
That may be, but my experience of another place and of the Senate this session impresses me with the fact that meeting does not necessarily mean doing anything. As a matter of fact, Parliament has been sitting for several weeks, and visitors have probably noticed the placards " Galleries full." We might just as well have placed under those notices "Nothing doing." 
Yes, but that something took thirty-one hours to do, and might well have been done in onetenth of that time. 

 - Senator Keating was quite in order in urging as a reason why the Senate should not meet on Monday next, the alleged dilatory way in which the Senate has conducted its business. Any honorable senator is entitled to criticise the conduct of business at any time, so long as he does it in an inoffensive manner. 
 Senator Gardiner  is entirely wrong in suggesting that I have ruled that an honorable senator may reflect on the Senate, but reflecting on the Senate is quite different from criticising the conduct of business. 
I rule that  Senator Keating  is in order. 
Ministers in this Chamber are entitled to a measure of sympathy. They stand between the devil and the deep sea - I might say many devils. It is well known that honorable senators are anxious to return to their homes, and we met her© to-day with the desire, if possible, to enable them to realize their wish. I assume that when we agreed to do that there was some hope that another place would have made such progress with the business that we should have something to do to-day.  Senator Keating  asked for some guarantee that there would be work for our attention on Monday. Any guarantee that  Senator Lynch  might give must be subject to the frame of mind of another place. On the other hand, if the Minister is not able to give that guarantee, and we adjourn till Tuesday, and another place, in quite a phenomenal fit of energy, did pass some business for our consideration by Monday afternoon,- and as a result of our belated start we had to continue sitting on Wednesday and Thursday,  another set of honorable senators would be inconvenienced. In this matter I can hardly hold the Government responsible for the motion, which, no doubt, was moved for the purpose of meeting the convenience of a majority of honorable senators, but as the Minister is asking the Senate to meet again at 3 o'clock on Monday, it should be possible for the Government to submit to another place as the first business on Monday such measures as are likely to be passed most expeditiously. Last night,  Senator Lynch  intimated that there are one or two measures which the Government are desirous of placing on the statute-book before Parliament adjourns. Those measures are not likely to arouse controversy. If the other branch of the Legislature dealt with them first, so that they could be forwarded to the Senate, we could be considering them while the remaining business of the session was being transacted elsewhere. 
Instead of the Government in the other House hanging on to a measure which has provoked considerable debate, they should, on Monday morning, proceed at once with those Bills which are not likely to excite controversy, and have them transmitted to the Senate in time for our meeting at 3 o'clock on the afternoon of that day; otherwise, we shall run the risk of reassembling and finding that we have no business to transact. 
TI 1.43]. - I do not think there is anything unusual about the difficulty in which we find ourselves to-day, because it is one which has existed at the end of every session of Parliament. 
At the close of every session, the Government are not masters of the situation, and the very best that previous Administrations have been able to do is to assume that certain things will happen in another place.- I can remember, when  Senator Keating  filled Ministerial office, that he was similarly circumstanced. I think that  Senator Millen  has made a suggestion  which can be readily accepted by myself and my colleagues. I understand that there are about four Bills which the Government desire to place upon the statutebook this session. At least two* of them are non-controversial, and we can request our leader in the other branch of the Legislature to proceed with those mea--  sures  first. They could be at once forwarded to the Senate, and their consideration would occupy us until the remaining; measures had been disposed of elsewhere.. I can assure  Senator Millen  that we shall, do all that we can to expedite the transaction of business in this regard. 
It is quite plain that we assembled here this morning for the despatch of business, and it is equally plain that an opportunity has not been afforded another place to despatch that business to us. I do not suggest that the other branch of the Legislature is endeavouring to exploit the patience of this Chamber in any way. But, as has been already remarked, it is very difficult for me to give a guarantee that the consideration of business elsewhere will be completed so that it will be available to this Chamber when it reassembles. Whatever happens is theresult of circumstances over which we have no control. So long as we are confronted with that position it is obviously impossible for me to enter into any guarantee. What I propose is that we shall meet at 3 o'clock on Monday afternoon, in the confident hope that some business will then be available for our consideration. I am led to believe that in the other branch of the Parliament there are certain measures the consideration of which is approaching finality. But we cannot be sure that at the eleventh hour and fifty-ninth minute something will not happen to prevent that finality being reached. We have, therefore, to choose between the possibility of wasting time by not meeting here till Tuesday and re-assembling here on Monday afternoon on the assumption that business will then be available. This is no new experience in parliamentary life. , The Parliaments of which I have been a member have had a similar experience. In other Legislatures, one Chamber usually blames the other for these delays. Here we think that the Senate is spotless. There is, however, another side to that question. To be brutally frank, the delay on the part of another place in forwarding business for our consideration has been materially contributed to by events which happened in this Chamber quite recently. The present position has been created by a host of circumstances, for some of which we are responsible. We are, therefore, swinging between two alternatives. 
I never knew till now thatthe last word had been uttered upon any matter which was the subject of a motion that had been carried. 
My proposition is based on the assumption-, that work will probably be awaiting us on Monday afternoon. At the same time, I can give no  guarantee in that connexion, and honorable senators will therefore vote on this motion with the full knowledge that business may or may not' be ready for us when we re-assemble. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I wish to ask the Minister for Works whether the Government have given further consideration to the question of granting free railway passes to gentlemen who have served twelve months as Commonwealth Ministers of the Crown? Last night the Minister informed me that the matter was under consideration. I wish to be clearly understood in regard to this matter. I consider that it was a wrong step to take when the ex-Minister for Home Affairs issued an order granting free trips to New Zealand to members of the Federal Parliament. I am also opposed to his order granting free railway passes for life to ex-Ministers of the Crown, exPresidents of the Senate and ex-Speakers of the House of Representatives. When the question was raised by  Senator Story  I asked the Minister for Defence what had been done, and he said that the Government had cancelled that portion of the order relating to ex-Presidents and ex-Speakers, but had decided to grant free railway passes for life to ex-Ministers of the Crown who had served twelve months in office. I am against the whole proposal, lock, stock, and barrel. No exMinister of the Crown, ex-President or exSpeaker should have a privilege in this regard above and beyond that of any private member, and as I would not agree to any order of a Minister of the Crown giving  free railway passes for life to ex-members of this Parliament,. I cannot agree to the granting of the privilege to ex-Ministers. A private member is elected to -this Parliament to do his work, and he is allowed certain remuneration for doing it. A member who is appointed to a Ministerial position is quite properly allowed extra remuneration. Presidents and Speakers come under the same category. They are properly allowed extra remuneration while they hold their positions. But once they no longer remain in their positions the Government should not grant to them something which no other private citizen enjoys. The present Government have retained the ' privilege for Ministers who have served twelve months in -office - most of the present Ministers have been in office for that period. They will be entitled to a free railway pass for life over the railways of the Commonwealth. 
-The word "belonging " does not appear, but even in the case of the railways belonging to the Commonwealth I object to the principle. 
I hope that very shortly a railway will be completed from the east to the west of this continent. 
There will soon be a railway from north to south. 
Any assistance that I can render to bring about the early completion of the railway junctioning from the north to the south with east to west line will be given, because South Australian senators have assisted Western Australian senators in their desire to build the main link from east to west. , I have always reciprocated in that regard, and I will assist in bringing about the early completion of the north to south line. 
My desire is to see the east connected with the west and the north connected with the south by railway communication, and if  Senator Turley  chooses to interpret my attitude as " log rolling " he is at liberty to do so, but there is nothing in my mind in that direction. If these free passes are confined to the railways owned by the Commonwealth I shall still object to them. I wish to know why the present Government have cancelled one portion of the order issued by the ex-Minister for Home Affairs and re-arranged the matter so .as to give free passes for life to ex-Ministers of the Crown who have served twelve months in office. If it is their determination to do this they can continue the practice until Parliamentotherwise -decides, but I shall take every opportunity in my humble way to see that the arrangement is cancelled. 
Does not the honorable senator think it would be a good incentive to probable Ministers of the Crown to strive for office? 
As one who was a member of the Government when the issue of these passes was agreed to I dissent altogether from the speech of  Senator Needham.  My thoughts have been saddest when I have thought of men who have served their State or their country in the highest positions and have met with an adverse vote from their constituencies. It has always appeared to me that there was not the slightest spark of gratitude in the hearts of the people to whom they had given their services. You have only to mention any distinguished politician in this country for the last fifty years, and you mention a man who has lost his opportunity for making private wealth. The saddest sight I have seen is that of the splendid men who have given all their lives to the service of their country left almost friendless the moment they lose their popularity. If a man loses the opportunity of creating private wealth by private business through serving his country, there should be no.t grudging recognition by the country of his services. The gratitude of Kings and Courts is proverbial; but when Democracy takes over the Government, I hope that some spark of gratitude will be shown for services rendered. I resent the cheeseparing system that refuses to extend to public men who have served their country faithfully and well considerations that nearly all reputable private firms extend to those who have served 'them well in their businesses. There are plenty of firms in this country who grant  si  life annuity to men who have given their lives to the business, and I protest against a man who falls on evil days after giving the best years of his life to the services of his country, being dragged down to the same dull, dead level, and made to travel simply on an equal footing with men who have never thought of anything but their own private interests all the days of their lives. 
A number of complaints have been reaching the Commonwealth that men who have been officers in the Commonwealth Imperial Forces since the outbreak of the war have been superseded by men interposed from the Imperial Forces without any prior claims to tate precedence over our men. I have learned from more than one source that some little soreness exists in this regard. 
To show that it is not mere rumour, I have the following letter from a mainland officer, dated 5th October - practically from the battlefield - a very clever soldier, who has won the Military Cross, and been mentioned in despatches: - 
There is a good deal of uneasiness creeping slowly in amongst our boys simply because there are too many Imperial officers being slowly " grafted " into our Divisions. This is wrong, absolutely wrong. We can run our own show without them; and, besides, most of this stops promotions amongst the Australians. The excuse is that we are not competent for- these positions. This is absurd when none of us have been tried, or very few of us.. 
That is so. While I shall not reveal the officer's name, I can state that he has recently been promoted from Lieutenant to Captain, so that he has no personal axe to grind.. Nothing is more calculated to shake our discipline and enthusiasm, and damage the general morale of the Australian troops at the front, than such occurrences. 
I have been advised by cable from Tasmania that the speech made in this Chamber by  Senator Grant  the other night on the Ministerial .statement, and reported in  Hansard,  has been debarred from publication in one section of the press in Tasmania. The  Daily Post  desired to republish  Senator Grant's  speech and comment on it; but I am told there has been a complete closedown by the Censor at Hobart on the reproduction of the  Hansard  report of that speech, and of another made in another place, and also on any comments. When men responsible to the people in the Senate make speeches they are prepared to take the responsibility of them, and if the censorship is to be used to prevent the republication of their speeches in the press, we shall have complete justification for reopening the whole question of the censorship in this Chamber. What has happened is unfair, and calculated to create discord and suspicion of the worst possible kind. 
Does the honorable senator mean to say that the  Hansard  report of his speech has been censored ? 
That is not correct. 
Such a suggestion should not be made. No such thing has happened. 
I have not asked for the withdrawal of the statement made by  Senator O'Keefe,  or of the suggestion that  Hansard  is censored, because it is not contrary to the Standing Orders to make that statement. Any harm that may be done by it -has already been done by the making of the suggestion, and no withdrawal can alter it. It was, however, a most improper suggestion, because there has never been any  censoring of  Hansard  If' anything has been kept out of  Hansard  it has been only with the consent of the member who made the speech. That has been known to honorable members of both Chambers for over twelve months. 
There is another matter that I should like to bring before  Senator Lynch.  I have had a good many letters from the front complaining that men there are not being paid' the full amount of pay which they should receive after providing for their allotments here. I have always discounted statements of this kind, because I am aware that misapprehensions often occur. I have never had a sufficiently specific case of this kind to bring before the Minister, but I have here a letter from the front addressed to  Senator Long  - who is on the State "War Council, and who, unfortunately, is laid aside with severe illness - which is very definite. I do not know whether or not the statements are correct, but the letter sets out clearly and fully what has previously been put before me. That being so, I shall read this letter and ask the Minister to cable at once for a report - 
In the Field in France, 16th October, 1916. 
Withheld for the time being - that is clear. The writer continues - 
A man who should receive 4s. a day is underpaid £1 7s. 4d. per fortnight. We heard a great deal about the perfidy of one of our enemies in treating its contracts as " a scrap of paper." But what is Australia doing about that ? 
The matter is a good deal talked about in the Army, and it is not going to be without some unfortunate consequences. Will you do what you can to get Australia to keep her word to those who have offered even themselves to keep her name? 
The matter is not a very serious one to me personally; but, unfortunately, for many of the chaps it is. I should not omit to tell you that the officers get every penny of the pay contracted to be paid to them. 
For obvious reasons I have suppressed the writer's name, but he is a member of the Pay Corps. 
I shall not indicate it. I have cut off from the letter the name of the writer. 
Since we" are about to embark on a recruiting campaign, mat- ters of this kind which are calculated to prejudice the movement ought to be adjusted. 
There is another grievance with which I desire to deal. Between Tasmania and the mainland, we have a contract mail service, under which the freights and fares have been fixed at certain rates. As the result of a good deal of agitation in this Chamber, the last mail contract to be signed had inserted in it a provision by which these freights and fares cannot be increased without the consent of the Commonwealth Government. Clause (i) of section I. reads as follows : - 
That the contractors will not without the approval of the Postmaster-General increasethe rates freight and/or passage money existing at the date of the execution thereof. 
In other words, it is provided under that contract that there shall be no increasein freights or fares without the consentof the Postmaster-General.  Senator O'Keefe, Senator Long,  and I fought bitterly to get that clause included in. the contract, and we had the impression that the people would then be protected, but what has been done by the company ? When the coal strike started they refused to issue return tickets, and issued singletickets, which resulted in an increase of 10s. 6d. for the return journey. Underthe old scale a return journey cost £2 12s. 6d. The single fare is £1 lis. 6d., so if you double the single fare you get £3 3s., or 10s. 6d. above the ordinary return fare. A deck cabin return farecosts £3 2s. 6d., and now a deck cabin single fare is £1 16s. 6d. Double that and" you get' £3 13s. It would seem, therefore, that by issuing two single tickets, where formerly the company issued one return fare, they mulcted the people of an extra half -guinea. 
-The Government have power .to take action under the clause in their contract that I have referred to, and which provides that thereshall be no increase of fares without the. consent of the Postmaster-General. I am, therefore, asking the Minister to insist, at once upon a return of this extra half-guinea to those people who havebeen obliged to pay it. The fare is toohigh now, arid the line is one of the most profitable in the service of the Union Steam-ship Company. Their dividends have increased, and now, by an indirect back-door method, they are penalizing the people who travel on the Tasmanian route. Their action cannot betoo strongly condemned. 
The remedy can be. found in the clause of the contract I have read. I have ascertained that the Postmaster-General was not. approached by the company. Membersof the Commonwealth Parliament are- in the same position, because they have to pay an extra 10s. 6d. for the return trip, and even if we do get a refund thousands of people throughout) Australia who have travelled by boat during the last few weeks will not be recompensed. I urge that strong steps shall be taken against this company for their underhand method of mulcting the people at the time when everything was dislocated by the coal, strike, and if the Government take no action, I can promise that a good deal more will be heard of it in this Chamber. The company could have continued issuing the return tickets even during the coal strike, because such tickets are available for six months, and even if passengers could not have returned as promptly as in other circumstances, many of those who made the trip to Tasmania would not have felt inconvenienced. 
There is another subject to which I wish to refer. In Tasmania we have in existence a Prices Commissioner, and the Commissioner,  Mr. G.F  . Martin, has been doing excellent work. I have with me some samples of Tasmanian flannel, the best in the Commonwealth, because the three woollen mills in that State have not the machinery for mixing cotton, and so they turn out the best flannel in the Commonwealth. I sold' thousands of . yards of it myself when in business. It used to cost me ls. 1½d. wholesale and I retailed it at1s 3d. a yard. When war broke out, this flannel was required for military contracts, and the Government commandeered the output at ls. 5d. per yard, from the Waverley Woollen Mills, in. launceston; Johnstone Brothers, of Hobart; and Aiten and Sons, also of Hobart. It was a very fair price to pay; but, subsequently, as there was a great scarcity of flannel in Tasmania,  Senator Long'  approached the Government to release some of the flannel for the use- of miners in the cold west coast country. Later on, the military demands eased off, and a quantity of this flannel was released for the general public. But what have the people of Tasmania to pay for it? For flannel of the sample which I have- with me,, and which I retailed at ls. 3d. a yard, they have now to pay 2s. 6d. a yard. This is an infamous attempt, by men who call themselves patriots, to' exploit the general public. 
In my opinion, the price paid by the Government was high, and evidently it paid the firms well or we would have heard a lot about it. But I am sure the Minister will agree that firms should not be allowed to charge the public 2s. 6d. - an increase of ls.1d. per yard - for the same quality of flannel that the Government bought for military purposes at ls. 5d. The Minister should cable to  Mr. Martin,  the Prices Commissioner, and ask' him to have an immediate inquiry into the price of flannel in Tasmania. 
But I am representing the public here, and I am asking the Minister to take the necessary steps to have an inquiry made, because this matter ought to be- looked into in view of the profits which these people must be making, especially as they have not been paying the best wages in the world - some of them - although there is a Wages Board in Tasmania. If the Minister ordered an inquiry to be made, I feel sure that the people in Tasmania would get some relief. 
No. I have not been, in Tasmania lately, and have therefore been unable to do that. I have brought this matter forward here because I hope that the Minister will deal with it promptly, and that thus it will be rectified as quickly as if I had brought it under the attention of  Mr. Martin  myself. 
The Commonwealth has released some flannel which is available to the public, and for it the storekeepers are asking 2s. 6d. per yard. It is to that I abject. 
I wish to bring under the notice of the Government the fact that, in New South Wales, there are many returned soldiers without employment. Each Sunday there is in the newspapers of the metropolis a long list of the men wanting employment. Last Sunday there were 269 names in this list, and more than half of them were names of married men, and 25 per cent, of them were names of men with three or more children. They are appealing for employment to the patriots of Australia, but they should not be forced to do this. It is the duty of the Government to see that men who have served the country at the risk of their lives, and in some cases have been maimed, are given work. I draw attention to the claims of a section with many of whom I am personally acquainted, the motor-drivers. The Government has in its employment men who have never volunteered for active service, and who tell me that they have been asked not to volunteer. On the other hand, there are returned men who are competent motor-drivers, who have driven motors on active service, and are pleading to the patriots of Australia to employ them. While there are so many unemployed returned soldiers, the recruiting scheme of the Government cannot prove successful. I wishthe recruiting to be successful, and it is in the interest of the campaign and of the nation, as well as of the men themselves, that I call attention to this matter. Work should' be found for our returned soldiers by some of our loud-voiced patriots who were calling us nasty names during the referendum campaign. Another matter to which I draw attention is the dismissal of mechanics and others at Cockatoo Island Dockyard. I understand that this has been necessitated by the want of material ; but work could be found for the men in the manufacture of munitions of war. This would employ quite a number. We have the ' necessary steel, and the Government should find employment for the whole of these- men, if possible, and for the machinery. While workmen have been dismissed, however, none of the staff has been sent away, and there are now nine managers on Cockatoo Island with no men to manage. Their services might also be utilized in the manufacture of munitions of war. 
I do not ask for the dismissal of those connected with the staff, but I desire that work should be found for them and for the men.  Senator Ready  has drawn attention to the fact that Imperial officers are replacing Australian officers in the Australian divisions, and that this is causing great discontent. As one who has been as near to the front as it is possible to get, and has mixed with many Australian officers, I say that there is great discontent from the cause named. I find fault with the military authorities in Australia for not exercising greater control over the Australian divisions. I know of four ablebodied colonels who have been returned to Australia, though quite fit to command. One colonel returned to Western Australia served through the Gallipoli campaign and at Poziéres. He was ordered to return to Australia, and pleaded with the authorities to tell him why, and to give him a chance. He asked for a court martial, but he could get no information as to why he was being sent back. 
No. I brought the case under the notice of the Minister for Defence, but he said he was powerless to interfere. I object to that sort of thing. The authorities in Australia should have power to remedy cases of this kind. This colonel was an able-bodied man, who was beloved of his soldiers, who call him the.. grand old man, or the good old man. He seems to have been too good to them, because he was shifted. I understand that he is going back on a transport at reduced rank, and is to be given an opportunity to plead his case before the British military authorities, and to ask for fair play. We should have given him that here. Our authorities should be able to deal with such a case. But their powers have been usurped by those on the field. This may be proper in many instances, but when our men are subjected to treatment like that meted out to this officer, they have a right to be tried -for any offences with which they may be charged. Charges should not be trumped up against them, and they should not be sent back here in disgrace on such charges. Another matter among many that require rectifying is the delay in paying the men, although the officers are paid promptly. There should be a civil commission appointed to inquire into all these things. To make a speech ' about them here does little good. I have pleaded with the Department. On my return 1 sent a letter to the Department, appealing to be heard on behalf of these men. I. said that I had a number of cases to put forward. But -I have not received a reply to that letter yet. I shall have to say these things before the public, but I should prefer to say them here, because I wish to have matters rectified in the proper way. When I was on my way out here, the men on the steamer pleaded with me to intercede for them, so that they might have a run ashore at Capetown. They 'were allowed ashore, but without a shilling in their pockets, although some of them had as much as £100 owing to them by the Department. The officials were willing to assist these men, but they could no nothing under the regulations. While the officers got their pay before they went ashore, the privates had to go without a shilling. This, of course, may have been a good thing for some of the men; but there were others quite capable of taking care of themselves, amongst them, for instance, a commercial traveller from New South Wales, who earned, I suppose, in private life a salary of over £500 a year. However, this man, amongst others, had to go ashore without a "bean", to bless himself with ; and, as a matter of fact, the men have had to plead for money with which to buy even cigarettes. I had not intended to mention all these matters, but really it is almost a duty that we owe to these boys to make the facts public. I urge upon the Government to do their utmost to afford employment, especially for those for whom places can be found in the Public Service. 
I am_ afraid that I should not be able to obtain such a Committee, but if the Government will afford the opportunity, I should be very glad to move in that direction. 
I wish to make my position clear, in view of a little misunderstanding which arose over a question I asked earlier in the day. The Minister for Works rather took exception to my remarks when I said that some persons in prison under the proclamation had been released owing to " influence." I wish to repeat that I did not use that word in any offensive sense. I merely meant that some men had been released because of the fact that their cases had been brought prominently before the Defence authorities by members of Parliament and others. 
That I quite understand. 
Yes, by the Minister for Defence or any other member of the Government on the authority of the Cabinet. 
I am not arguing that point, but merely replying to the interjection of  Senator Needham.  Men have been released from .custody, and rightly I think, because the proclamation lias been withdrawn. For instance, men prominent in the public eye, like John Curtin and the Brothers Grant - in whom I interested myself - have, I understand, been released. At the same time, there are other men still in gaol for the same crime, if it be a crime, that those whose names I have mentioned committed. , 
I have no doubt but the Minister only did what most of us would have done under the circumstances in endeavouring to get such men released from custody. But my point is that plain John Jones, an unknown man, who has no friends amongst members of Parliament, may still be undergoing imprisonment in Western Australia or Queensland. 
I wish the Minister would get rid of the idea that I am making the slightest suggestion that the Government or himself did anything wrong in Curtin's case, or in any other case. I am putting the hypothetical case of some unknown individual who has no one to put his case before the authorities, and who may be still undergoing imprisonment for the same offence as that committed by men who have been released. 
I am very glad to hear that statement. My only desire is that every man, however humble, shall receive the same measure of justice as that served out to others whose names may have been more prominently brought forward. 
If that be so, I am quite satisfied. 
I only desire to say that I shall take an opportunity next week to make a personal explanation in regard to some remarks by the  President,  which, I think, have put me in rather a false light, if the  President  took my interjection as a reflection on any action of his, I absolutely and unreservedly withdraw what I said, because I had not the slightest idea of such a thing. I spoke because j. thought there was some kind of censorship exercised over  Hansard,  under  the  War Precautions Act, by the Government. 
The Government have no power to interfere with  Hansard. 
 Senator Ready's  references to  Mr. Martin,  the Prices Commissioner for Tasmania, have afforded me the opportunity of saying that the object in the appointment of these Commissioners is to protect the public against exploitation. I am glad that the matter has been mentioned, because I wish to say that, whenever honorable senators are informed of a specific case of exploitation by overcharges, they will greatly assist the Department if they bring the case immediately under the notice of the local Prices Commissioner, and the Government will greatly appreciate their action. After inquiry, the Commissioner reports to the Minister, who will take whatever action may be necessary. I shall not refer at length to the matter of the censorship which has been raised, but I may mention that recently, when  Senator Grant  was giving the Senate a statement concerning a number of soldiers who have been sentenced to various terms of imprisonment, I happened to be in the gallery with a returned .Victorian soldier, who is favorably known to all the Victorian senators, and whose word will bt taken by them. He had come back a; one of the officers in charge of the men to whom  Senator Grant  was referring, anc while the honorable senator was reading their letters he said to me, in a humorous way, " My God, Ted, I came back in charge of some of those men. If you only knew them !" 
I could give honorable senators the name of the officer to whom I referred as coming back in charge of these men. I refer to the incident only to remind honorable senators that when a man under sentence writes a letter complaining of his treatment, it must be regarded as a purely  ex parte  statement, lit may be perfectly true, but no honorable member of the Senate will be prepared to decide a matter upon an  ex parte  statement. The publication of these complaints without investigation is calculated to injure the effort to obtain recruits. I do not know the merits of the different cases which have been referred to, but I hope that every case will be investigated, not by a military, but by a civil, tribunal, and that full justice will be done. 

 .- Senator Needham has referred to the free railway passes issued by my predecessor in the Home Affairs Department. Information was given to the honorable senator at a time when the matter had been partially considered by the Government. For perfectly obvious reasons, we have not had the time to give attention to such trivial affairs. The Government are called upon to solve problems with which no other Government has been confronted. We are in the position to-day of chief salesman for nearly every primary product of the country. I thoroughly indorse the statement made by  Senator Gardiner  with reference to the privileges granted to public .men. I firmly hold the opinion that the public men of this country are given too few rather than too many privileges. I have never let an opportunity pass, whether in the Western Australian or in the Federal Parliament, of voting for a proper recognition of public men, either in the way of salary or privilege. I believe that the people of Australia are given exceptionally honest service by her public men. On the other hand, the people are somewhat prone to neglect public men when, as the result of untoward circumstances, they are thrown on the scrap heap, and are turned down at an election. Much has been said about the issue of free passes, but it is only a twopenny-halfpenny affair. 
I consider that the ex-Minister for Home Affairs did what he was entitled to do, and he did not go as far as I should have gone in one direction had I been a member of the Government. No doubt, he did exceed his duty later; and, while I cannot indorse his acting without the sanction of Cabinet, I do indorse part of what he did when he exceeded his duty.  Senator Ready  has referred to several matters, and, amongst them, the appointment of English officers to command Australian soldiers. There i3 ground for complaint if qualified Australian  officers  have been overlooked; but honorable senators will agree that the best men with the best brains are required, and without a knowledge of the difficulties of the situation we can scarcely interfere. 
I believe that honorable members of this Parliament should be very slow in bringing forward complaints from members of our Army at the front, or our Army in the making here. There is some reason to believe that they have been hasty in voicing complaints in Parliament, or through the press, and this has militated against successful recruiting in Australia. I presume to advise honorable senators, if I may, that they should be very chary of championing any case unless they have absolutely good grounds for believing that it is a just one. They should not forget that even an ordinary sheet of paper has two sides. We have an officer in command of the Australian section in whom the utmost confidence is reposed. 
That is a matter which should be kept in mind before honorable senators associate themselves with complaints that are made. After all, there may be a good explanation of what is complained of. Though I say this, I shall, of course, refer the complaints that have been made to the proper authorities for inquiry, out of respect to the representations of 'honorable senators. In reference to the increase in rates and fares on the steamers trading to Tasmania, if, on inquiry, it is found that the company has violated the terms of the  contract, it will be made to toe the scratch and account for its actions. I see no reason why there should be any differentiation .between the treatment of a company, which -is a collection of individuals, and the treatment, of the humblest individual in the land. 

 Sitting suspended from 1. to 8.80 p.m. 

 Senator Ready  referred to the British authorities withholding some of the pay due to Australian soldiers. That matter will receive the attention of the Defence Department as soon as possible. I hope the honorable senator will realize that there must be some reason for the differentiation, but whether that reason furnishes a sufficient justification I am not prepared to say. The honorable senator is quite aware mat the rates of pay fixed for the members of the Expeditionary Forces will be adhered to, no matter what happens. There is no suspicion that the pay has been actually reduced, because that has not been even thought of. 
Then the complaint is merely that portion of our soldiers' pay, in excess of what is paid to the British soldier, is being deferred. The matter will be brought under the notice of the Defence authorities, and an attempt made to rectify the grievance, if possible. The statements in regard to the fixation of prices have been replied to by  Senator Russell,  who appointed the gentleman in Tasmania, whose business is the revision of prices in (hat State. There is no need for further reply by me. I was pleased to hear the testimony of  Senator Ready  that the work done by that gentleman is giving satisfaction.  Senator McDougall  dealt with the grievances of returned soldiers in New South Wales who had not received the consideration which they were led to expect. I am not aware of the actual position in New South Wales, but it is the duty of the Government to see that any promises given to our soldiers are honoured to the last letter. 
I should think that they, too, should be respected fully. 
If  Senator Mullan  can give the Government any advice on that  subject  we will be pleased to receive it. 
The question arises whether it is within the proper domain of governmental action to compel private employers to give employment to returned soldiers who, prior to enlisting, had been in their employ. My own opinion is that the Government have no authority to do that. We can only exercise moral suasion; but if specific cases can be mentioned of returned soldiers having been refused employment by those firms with whom they were formerly employed, the duty will rest upon the Government to make a special appeal to those firms. 
The Government will endeavour to honour their promises in full. I know of returned soldiers who were not previously employed by the Commonwealth receiving preference of employment. 
If the honorable senator will furnish the Government with a statement of concrete cases, we shall endeavour to. induce the employers concerned to honour their promises. The honorable senator .mentioned, also, tha case of a gentleman from Western Australia who served with distinction. The same case has been brought under my notice, and I have done what little was possible to obtain a redress  of  the officer's grievances.  Senator McDougall  gave the impression that this officer had been badly treated, but, as a matter of fact, he has returned to the front quite satisfied with what the Minister for Defence has done for him. 
 I know that he has, because he  told  me  so.  Senator Blakey  referred to persons imprisoned under the* 
War Precautions Act who, in his opinion, are entitled to be released.  His  case relies entirely upon supposition; but if the honorable senator will bring forward specific cases of persons improperly .imprisoned under the War Precautions Act, I will lay the matter before the AttorneyGeneral's Department, with a view to having an inquiry made. 
As one who has had a- little experience of working occupations in which it is very necessary to wear an all-wool garment, and knowing the effect that such garments have on the miners' health, I will promise to inquire into the complaint, and see if anything can be done to insure woollen goods being specially reserved for miners and other workers who require that class of material more than any other section of the community.. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I recently asked the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral the following questions with reference to the classification of postmasters in Tasmania under  Mr. Justice  Powers' . award : - 
Is it a fact that a number of post-offices in Tasmania, which were entitled to be raised in classification under  Mr. Justice  Powers' award from 1st January,1916, have not been so advanced? 
Are postmasters in Tasmania receiving differential treatment from those of the mainland; if so, why? 
Will the Postmaster-General take  immediate  steps to see that the Judge's award is honoured in Tasmania  as  well  as in  the other States? 
Should any cases be found where officers should have been raised from 1st January, 1916, and have not been, will the Deputy PostmasterGeneral be instructed that those who have been performing the duties are paid for all back time at the proper rate? 
I should like to know whether the Minister is now in a position to furnish  a  reply to those questions. 
The answers are - 
No. 
No. 
Necessary steps have been taken. 
There are no such cases. 
Is the Minister for Work now in a position to make a statement as to the action, if any, which the Government have decided to take, in view of the references to  Mr. D.  L. Gilchrist in the report of the Royal Commission appointed to inquire into his charges in connexion with the Kalgoorlie to Port Augusta railway? 
All that I can say in reply is that the matter was referred to the Attorney-General's Department for advice, and so far no advice has been received from that Department. 
(By  leave)  I wish to make a personal explanation. On Saturday last I made some reference to the fact that I believed that certain statements which I had made in a speechfrom the previous day had been censored from the  Hansard  report. You, sir, pointed out that that could not be. On your statement, I unreservedly withdrew what 
I said. I wish now to make a further explanation. I said that, according to. the best of my recollection, something had been omitted from my speech which I thought should not have been omitted. I promised to go more carefully over the speech, and I have done so. I have discovered that it was I who made the mistake. I do not, and. never have, desired, during my public career, that any blame should rest upon an officer of Parliament for any mistake of mine. I may be permitted to say that I was reading the proof ofmy speech, and was called out of the chamber. This was during the all-night sitting, and when I came back to take up the reading of the proof again things were pretty lively. Instead of beginning where I had left off my reading of the proof, I missed a portion of the report. I have discovered that  Hansard  'did not make any mistake, and that a full report of my remarks was given. I take the first opportunity to remove any blame which may have been cast upon the  Hansard  Staff through my mistake. 
I am glad that  Senator O'Keefehas  made this explanation. The facts were as I stated. The Government exercise no control over  Hansar d.  The only control exercised over  Hansard  is by  Mr. Speaker  and myself. That practice should continue, because I have always held that Parliament should be supreme in the control of what concerns the two Houses, and no Government has any right to say what Parliament shall or shall not do. There is another matter to which I should like to refer in this connexion. Going into the matter raised by  Senator O'Keefe's  remarks, because I went into it, as well as the honorable senator, I find that any censoring of the  Hansard  reports that has been done has been the work of honorable senators themselves, who have at times taken the liberty of cutting out of the reports of their speeches certain things which they did not desire to appear. 
Certainly not. I have issued orders to the  Hansard  Staff that nothing but redundancies should be omitted from the  Hansard  reports. To be of any value at all,  Hansard  must be a true record of the proceedings of the Chamber. 
-I think, sir, that a statement such as that which you have just made with respect to the manner in which honorable senators deal with their proofs, when they get them, should be supplemented by specific instances, stating the honorable senators who have offended, and what they have done. 
Is it possible to have a more complete statement on the lines of that which you have just made? 
I ask the Assistant Minister whether the fixing of steam-ship fares and freights would come within the power for the framing of regulations under the War Precautions. Act. If so, is the honorable senator aware that steam-ship companies trading to Western Australia have ceased to issue return tickets, and that it is estimated that on the last run of the  Zealandia  something like £1,000 was unfairly extracted from the pockets of passengers as the result of the issue of single tickets only? 
The freights and fares for the Australian . coastal trade were fixed about last June twelve months, and no increases were to be permitted without the consent of the Government. I will have the matter investigated, and, if an opportunity offers, will report later tothe Senate on the question. 
Arising out of the answer to  Senator de  Largie's question, I would ask the Assistant Minister whether the same thing will apply to the coal-miners at Newcastle? 
The answers are - 
Imperial officers to a very limited number have been appointed by General Birdwood to certain important positions only on Divisional Staffs and in a few instances to Brigade Staffs. They do not receive any pay or allowances from the Australian Government, nor are they commissioned to the Australian Forces. 
General Birdwood has been informed that the policy of this Government is that, as far as practicable, Imperial officers are only to be appointed to these positions when qualified Australian officers are not available, or when they cannot be spared from the appointments they already hold, and he has followed this policy throughout. The matter will again be brought to his notice without delay. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact, as stated in the  Age  of Tuesday, 12th December, that there are 400 returned soldiers out of work in Melbourne; and, if so, what do the Government intend doing to get the men work? 
Inquiries are being made at the State War Council to ascertain the number of discharged returned soldiers out of work. It is the policy of the Government to give first preference to discharged returned soldiers and sailors in Government Departments. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that Private Donald Jones is retained in a ward of Callan Park Hospital for Insane along with other private patients, although a hospital for returned soldiers suffering mentally has been provided by public funds? 
Is his detention against the Minister's instruction in such cases; if so, will the authorities inquire into the reasons? 
I have been furnished with the following report from the medical authorities: - 
Private Donald Jones was admitted to the Military Hospital at Broughton Hall and transferred to a cottage which, though in the grounds of Callan Park, is used for severe mental cases in connexion with Broughton Hall, and is a portion of that hospital. He was not certified as being a lunatic. As his case is one of acute mania he was removed to Callan Park proper in order that he might be given special attention. His mental con dition is, unfortunately, still bad. Owing to the lack of accommodation at Broughton Hall, such patients, when it is for their benefit, are sent occasionally to the ordinary portion of the Hospital for the Insane at Callan Park. There they receive differential treatment to ordinary civil patients. Additional accommodation is being provided at Broughton Hall. When complete Callan Park will only be used for bad or acute cases needing special attention. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy,  upon notice - 
How many Australian citizens have been appointed to positions as masters, mates, or engineers in the Commonwealth shipping service ? 
Is it a fact that one man has been appointed to a command of one of the Commonwealth ships who is a pensioner of the British India Company? 
If so, was this man sentfrom London to Calcutta, thence to Australia, to replace the previous master? 
Were there no Australian citizens qualified to take up such command? 
The answers are - 
One master, one mate, one third engineer. 
He was employed by the British India Company. I' am not aware if he is a pensioner. 
In an emergency he was sent by the General Manager, London, to Calcutta to take over command of the ship. 
See No. 3. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
In view of the possibility that the coal mine owners of Australia will increase the price of coal to the consumers of Australia, will the Government obtain and lay on the table of the Senate a statement showing the profits, if any, of the coal mining companies of Australia for the last two years, giving the profit of each company separately? 
An inquiry has been addressed to the Government of New South Wales in the matter. 
I move- 
That the House of Representatives be requested to insert the following new clause: - " 1a. This Act shall continue in force for the duration of the war and a period of six months thereafter, but no longer." 
I am of opinion that the majority of honorable senators regard this as a war measure. Therefore, I think it would be well to request the insertion of a clause to make it quite clear anddefinite that the Bill is introduced for the duration of the war and for war purposes only. 
I trust that  Senator Grant  will not press his proposal. Though we are all anxious to drop this class of taxation the moment the war is concluded, I am afraid that our responsibilities and our needs for revenue will not. cease six months after the war is over. I think that we can very well leave this matter to the discretion and judgment of the Parliament which may exist after the war is finished. I trust that the Committee will not accept the request. 
So far as I can see, the request is perfectly in order. The next Parliament can either repeal or amend the Act, or do what it likes. 
 Senator Findley  has directed attention to one thing which, if the request is persisted in, requires attention. The term "for the duration of the war" is too vague. For instance, an armistice might precede the signing of peace. The actual fighting would terminate at a fixed period, and peace would not be signed for some time thereafter. I notice that where it is desired to limit the operation of other Acts in this way, the words used are "till the signing of peace." If  Senator Grant  decides to persist with his proposal, the wording of it should be altered in that direction. As regards the proposition itself, I entirely agree with the spirit of it. I think that this is war legislation. For that reason I have no fault to find with the request, but, in my view, it is only " a chip in porridge." If the proposed new clause were inserted, and a needy Treasurer - and Treasurers will be needy in the future-found that if was necessary' to continue to receive the revenue which this tax would yield, he would soon bring in an amendment for that purpose. That has already been done in one or two State Parliaments. In New South Wales, for instance, in the firstyear of the war the Parliament imposed one or two taxes for a year only. But at the end of the year they renewed the taxes for another year, and in the second year they made them permanent. On the other hand, if this Parliament in future wished to repeal the tax, it would not matter whether this provision was in the Act or not, it would repeal the Act. I do not think that it makes the slightest difference whether the provision goes in or remains out. 
Request negatived. 
Clauses 2 and 3 agreed to. 
Clause 4 - 
The rates of the Entertainments Tax shall be as follows, namely: - 

 Payment for Admission (excluding the Amount of Tax), Rate of Tax. 

Exceeding sixpence and not exceeding one shilling,1d. 
Exceeding one shilling,1d. for the first shilling and one halfpenny for every sixpence or part of sixpence by which the payment exceeds one shilling. 
In my speech on the second reading of the Bill, I intimated an intention to move a request for the purpose of imposing a taxon the lower-priced tickets, such tax to remain inoperative until a proclamation was issued bringing it into effect, and the proclamation only to be issued in the event of any State Parliament proceeding to impose such a tax. I drafted a request to that effect, but since doing so I have been confronted with this difficulty, that a tax levied by this Parliament must be uniform throughout Australia, and there are certain States which have already imposed this taxation on the lower-priced tickets. If I were to persist withmy request, and it were to become law, this Parliament would stand in the position of imposing double taxation, and imposing it too on the lower-priced tickets, which I think are the last tickets which any one wishes to tax. While I still think that where this tax is collected, it ought to be available to the Commonwealth, in the circumstances I do not propose to submit a request. 
.. - To me this clause is very ambiguous so far as the taxation proposals of the Government are concerned. Earlier in the day we were told that later we would have the fullest information in regard to the incidence of this taxation. I think it would be just as well if we had a little light on that point just now. 
I would feel much better satisfied if I could get from the Government now some idea as to how far they propose to go with this form of taxation. It may be all-embracing; it may include any and every form of entertainment, or as  Senator Lynch  interjected, there may be some exemptions. 
If the members of the Committee are satisfied to allow this clause to go until we reach another stage, well and good. 
Perhaps, sir, it would facilitate matters if I were to give an indication now as to the scope of this measure. 
No. ' In the other measure entertainment will be defined to include any exhibition, performance, lecture, amusement, game, or sport for admission to which payment is made. It will exempt all charitable performances which are run for a profit, and all children's entertainments where the admission charge does not exceed1d. The only reason for bringing this Bill in early was to enable honorable senators to get away; but the Government will throw no obstacle in the way if it is desired by honorable senators to recommit the Bill after the Assessment Bill has been dealt with. 
The Minister's explanation indicates that the definition of " entertainments " is . going to be comprehensive. The very fact that  Senator Millen  has discovered that some States already impose a tax on the lower-priced tickets is, I think, an additional reason why he should press his proposal. If such tickets are already taxed it will be pretty hard if we put an additional tax on thosewho are less able to bear it. It is a pettifogging method of raising revenue, seeing that we have any amount of scope in other directions. 
Never mind the Caucus. Do not be too eager to ridicule the Caucus, which helped to make my honorable friend what he is. 
I do not wish to indulge in recriminations. I move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to leave out the words and figure " Exceeding sixpence and not exceeding one shilling,1d." 
If the request is agreed to, tickets up to the value of1s. will be exempt. That is the popular price of admission to most entertainments in Australia. If this tax is to be imposed, let the visitors to the dress circle pay it. 
Increase the tax on the tickets for the dress circle if it is not high enough, but let the popularpriced tickets be exempt. I submit this request in order to make the tax equitable, and put the burden on those who are the strongest and best able to bear it. 
.- I voted against the second reading of the Bill because I am opposed to the principle of this taxation. I was unable to knock the Bill out on the second reading and the best thing for me to do now is to assist to amend it in the direction which will best serve a section of the community that is not well circumstanced, and that will be handicapped by the imposition of this taxation. It is only within the last few years that picture entertainments have been provided for the people. Whilst a great number of men, women, and children attend the various picture theatres in the different States, a considerable number attend other forms of entertainment, for which the modest " bob " is the price of admission. I suppose that the same thing may be seen in all the principal cities of the Commonwealth, but one has only to go to the theatres in this city to see a large number of people waiting at what is called the early door to obtain a decent seat for1s. When people are prepared to suffer the inconvenience and discomfort of waiting outside these places of entertainment, sometimes for hours, it is because they are not in a position financially to pay for a higher-priced seat in the theatre. 
The more welltodo people of the Commonwealth do not largely patronize picture entertainments. They may take their children to them occasionally, but they prefer to go to the theatres, and usually pay a booking-fee in addition to the price of the ticket in order to engage their seats beforehand. I can see no objection to the carrying of the request, other than that the Government require every penny of revenue that they can obtain. 
If that is the honorable senator's objection to what I am saying, why did he support the proposal to exempt 6d. tickets from taxation? 
The honorable senator voted for the second reading of this Bill. In another place it was proposed to impose a tax on all entertainment tickets. For reasons advanced, the Government, with the consent of the Opposition led by  Mr. Cook  in. another place, agreed to exempt 6d. tickets from taxation. 

 - Senator Bakhap is finding fault with me because I wish to go further, and exempt shilling tickets. I think it would be a good thing to make this exemption. 
It would have been better if the Bill had never been introduced. I have said that I am not in favour of the principle of the Bill, and as the second reading has been carried, I hope that the request submitted by  Senator Mullan  will be agreed to. 
It should be stated that the responsibility for financing the war remains with the Government. A majority of the honorable members of the Senate have decided in favour of the principle of the Bill, but it would have been better to have it thrown out on the second reading than to carry the request now moved. The Government have gone a long way, in view of the fact that revenue is urgently required, in granting concessions in response to appeals on behalf of families who attend picture shows. . It is now sought to extend the exemption to shilling tickets. Working class families attending a theatre seldom pay1s. per head all round, and I believe that a single man going to a theatre would not begrudge paying1d. in taxation upon a shilling ticket. Forty thousand people often attend a football match, and the Australian " sports " that we hear so much about, would not, I am sure, object to contribute an extra1d. to secure admission to exhibitions of their favorite pastime, and would, indeed, feel better satisfied, and enjoy the sport offered better, if they felt that, at the same time, they were contributing something to the welfare of the country. The Government have already made a concession involving a loss of revenue under this measure of £100,000. The exception to  Senator Mullan's  request would involve the loss of at least another £100,000, and that would leave the revenue estimated to be obtained under the Bill at about £200,000. For the purpose for which the measure has been introduced, it would not be worth while to pass it in the amended form suggested. The poorer people would not be called upon to contribute a great deal in taxation under this measure. 
When the opportunity is afforded to  Senator Stewart  to vote for a higher Customs Tariff, he will find that I am with him all the way. I trust that honorable senators will permit the Bill to go through without the request moved by  Senator Mullan,  as money is very badly wanted for war purposes. 
Notwithstanding the superfluous Ministerial statement that we must have funds to 'carry on the war, it does seem petty that the National Parliament should be asked to consider such a measure as this, in view of the small revenue anticipated from it, and in view, also, of. the way in which the Government propose to deal with war profits. The policy of the Government is hands off the wealthy man and hands on the working man. The war taxation affects the working classes at every turn. If they are not paying war taxes directly, they pay them indirectly by the increased prices they are called upon to pay for everything they consume and wear. The men who are making enhanced profits as a result of the war are to be allowed to go practically scot free. The next thing we shall hear is that fishing-rods and children's scooters are to be taxed. We have come to a pretty pass when we are asked to consent to legislation like this. I trust that the request will be carried. The Assistant Minister said that it would have been better to have knocked out the Bill on the second reading, but he did not vote in accordance with that statement. 
I was rather pleased to listen to the remarks made by  Senator Russell,  inasmuch as he said he would have preferred that the Bill should be thrown out altogether rather than that it should be emasculated in the way which appears to be intended by the Committee. I counsel the -honorable senator to withdraw the Bill. I think that would be a handsome and a proper thing for him to do. It is a reflection on this enlightened Commonwealth that we should look for revenue to the women and children who patronize picture shows. We have heard a great deal about picture shows, and some of what we have heard is probably true. I think there is something very good in picture shows, and something which has helped the Commonwealth materially in several ways. Wherever I go, I find hotelkeepers complaining that the picture shows have killed their trade. That is enough to convince me that picture shows have been doing some good. No , doubt they have been doing a little harm, and there is some room, I think, for the censoring of films ; but that is another matter. On the whole, I think that picture shows have done a great deal of good. Some of the films are educative in a very high degree, and others are very amusing. I have never enjoyed myself anywhere so well as in a sixpenny seat at a picture show. The Assistant Minister has put forward the plea that we are at war. We know that, and we know that we want to raise, not £200,000, but millions of pounds. Yet he comes along with this tax on picture shows with the expectation of raising a paltry sum of £200,000. I wish to direct attention to the fact that the estimated revenue from land value taxation this year is £1,900,000. Now here is a very ocean, a huge reservoir, a repository of wealth rich beyond the dreams of avarice, which is only waiting to be exploited. Instead of raising £200,000 a year from picture shows, which are educating the people- 
 Senator Stewart  is decidedly out of order. 
Order! I ask the honorable senator to confine himself to the clause under consideration. 
My reason for voting against the second reading of the Bill was that which actuates me now to support the amendment in favour of exempting tickets of admission to amusements up to1s. in value. To me. the whole Bill is based on paltry lines. The Assistant Minister has urged that if the amendment be adoptedit will mean a loss inrevenue of £100,000 annually. That, however, is an infinitesimal, sum when we compare it with the £5,000,000 which my honorable friends opposite propose to sacrifice in respect of four items, namely, the war levy, the exemption of war bonds from State and Federal income tax, the sinking fund, and the war profits. Yet he cavils at an amendment, which would deprive the Governmentof a revenue of £100,000 per annum. Many of the persons who are howling most about their patriotism are doing their best to evade anyfuture taxation which may be levied by the Commonwealth. For the past twenty-five years we have been told that socialistic legislation was driving capital out of the country. But strange to say our opponents have been quite unable to point to one concrete illustration in support of their contention. Since the outbreak of the war, in an endeavour to avoid taxation, it is known that sums amounting to £1,000,000 have been taken out of Australia and invested in the Argentine. 
The Prime- Minister must be aware of it. 
A firm representing the pastoral industry of Australia. 
Capital has not been driven out of the country during the past twenty-five years, but evidently the Prime Minister has winked at this amount of £1,000,000 being taken out of Australia. 
The Government could do a lot of things under the WarPrecautions Act. 
SenatorFERRICKS.- The powers of the Government under the War Precautions Act have been exercised only in opposition to the workers. It is quite true that five or six times the amount which will be collected under this Bill could easily be derived from land taxation. Closely associated with this question of raising revenue in time of war is the repatriation scheme. When that scheme was first outlined there was a veritable rush by land-owners, who were consumed with anxiety to sell their estates for division amongst our returned soldiers. 
It appears to me that the Government might very well accept the amendment. The Democracy is bearing morethan its fair share of the  cost -of the -war, .financial and otherwise. It is contributing £ 1-7,000,000 annually in Customs and .Excise revenue. The entire. Bill is a pettifogging and paltry .one, which will operate harshly so far as a big section of the community  is  concerned. One would think &gt;that under a measure of .this kind .the democratic shilling should be the minimum .of taxation. Surely the people of Australia ought not to be penalized for indulging in amusements. Personally I have always held that the workers have had a lack of amusements in Australia. It would have been far better if the first generation of Australians had had more of them, and less of hard work. A surfeit of hard work and insufficient relaxation are not calculated to promote 'the development of a nation mentally and physically. 
This amendment makes it quite clear that what is .aimed at is not the .improvement, but -the destruction of the Bill. Both the author of the amendment and  Senator .Findley  were .quite candid in their utterances. I have no hesitation in saying that if we adopt the amendment we shall practically kill the measure. 
The sixpenny tickets are exempt now. The Senate, having decided in favour of the principle involved in 'the Bill, we shall be stultify- ing ourselves if we permit it to become as dead as if we had defeated it on the motion for its second reading. 
 Senator Millen  is .-quite mistaken in the amount which he imagines will be collected .from 'the taxation of shilling tickets of admission to amusements. He says that the amendanent will have the effect of practically destroying the Bill. Yet the Assistant Minister toM us only a few minutes ago .that from the shilling tickets he expects to derive only about £100,000, whereas the total tax will yield £350,000. There is one phase &lt;of this -question which ought not to be overlooked, namely, that the  'Cost  of all commodities ,has .been steadily . soaring .upwards. Amongst other items of ..expenditure, the amount spent on amusements has been in the same direction. Quite .recently ra (considerable number of picture .shows .charged, .an admission fee as  low  .as 3d. But, with .the exception .of continuous picture shows the charge has .now been advanced to .6d. It is quite possible that .in the near future the minimum charge will 'be advanced from 6d. to ls., and consequently we should provide for the exemption of those tickets from taxation. Taxation of that sort is economically unsound, and opposed .to the principles laid down by that world-renowned political economist, Henry George, whose principles of taxation have swept into oblivion and disrepute those of Adam Smith and others. The taxation system of Great Britain is founded on .Adam Smith's principles, and to that system the whole Democratic movement of Australia has always been opposed. 
The firms manufacturing and importing films have a complete monopoly, and the companies running the picture shows are at their1 mercy. The men who own the sites on which the. picture shows stand will "be able, when .their lease expires, to demand higher rents from the occupants. I know cases where that has already been done. I support the elimination of ls. from the. operations of the 'Federal tax-gatherer. 
I still -say that .there is a great deal of humbug and hypocrisy .coming out in this discussion. A proposal worse than this was instituted by the Labour party previous to the crisis. Had there been no crisis, the people of Australia would ;have been compelled by the Labour party, solid' as it -was then, to pay on every .6d. ticket. If I advocate .a thing when -sitting on one side of the .chamber, I do not believe in going back on it if I happen to cross the floor. The principle of this tax is wrong ; but necessity compels us very often to do things temporarily to raise revenue, and that is so in this - case. It is argued that other people have been released from taxation. When "that legislation comes .before this Chamber, no one will be found more solid than myself to put back the terms .which I, .as a .Labour man, agreed to when I sat on  the other side of the chamber. Whatever happens, I shall be consistent in that matter. This Bill, when first introduced in another place, was framed to tax 6d. tickets, and the members of the Labour party there objected. The Government met them, agreeing to exempt 6d. tickets, and to begin taxation at anything over 6d. I am still a member of the sameparty, and am not going back on my mates in another place, who accepted the compromise from the Government, knowing that it was a great deal better than would have been the case had there been no crisis. I shall vote against the request. 
After  Senator Turley's  remarks as to certain members going back on a decision of the party with regard to this tax, it is only right that I should say I objected to it from the first moment I heard of it. I have never departed from that attitude since, and do not intend to. 
 Senator Turley's  lecturette ought never to have been delivered. It was not necessary. I admire him for his outspokenness and candour; but he must not run away with the idea that, for consistency and honesty of purpose, he is " the only pebble on the beach." Those who heard' me this afternoon know whether I am consistent or otherwise on this matter. So far as I can remember, I have never advocated a tax on any form of amusement; and my opposition to this measure is consistent with my opposition to that form of taxation ever since I have been in the Senate. 
 Senator Turley's  statement that the party would have voted for the tax had there been no political crisis is open to considerable argument.  Senator Ferricks  pointed out this afternoon that the Government, as the price of the support of the Cook party, had modified the financial proposals of the late Government to the extent of £5,000,000. This is the first of the taxation measures that we have had a chance to deal with. Seeing that the Government have relieved makers of war profits, holders of bonds, and owners of wealth, to the extent of several millions, it is our duty, now that we have an opportunity of dealing with the amusements tax, which hits the poorer classes, to modify it if we can. Even assuming, for the sake of argument, that the party might have agreed, some little time ago, to this Bill, with a tax on 6d. tickets in it, the fact that the Government have modified other measures, and so exempted the rich, would justify us in exempting the poor. I, therefore, do not consider myself in the slightest degree inconsistent in moving the request. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time - 
I regret that the honorable senator was not previously in possession of a copy of the Bill, which, is one of an extremely simple character, and on© which I feel confident will be readily approved. It forms part and parcel of the Government scheme of taxation. Originally, it was intended to raise about £1,000,000 by means of a tax upon sports, entertainments, theatres, and picture-shows generally. That estimate, however, was based on a misapprehension. Owing to the fact that many of the States either immediately prior to, or since the announcement of this policy, have adopted this method of taxation, the Government have been compelled to recast their own scheme. , It has become necessary for them to reduce the previous estimate of the revenue likely to be derived from this source by one-half. Originally it was intended to tax these amusements to the extent of about 16 per cent. , but the impost which it is now proposed to levy will average only about 8 per cent. I am not able to give the exact figures, because since the last estimate was made the other branch of the Legislature has excised the proposed tax .on 6d. tickets. 
It was estimated that it would return £400,000 a year, but it is now thought that the amount will not exceed £350,000. The States, I repeat, have already trenched on the same field of taxation, and the Commonwealth and State taxes will, jointly, be equivalent to about 16 per cent. The reason the Government have  instituted  this method of taxation is the absolute necessity for raising money owing .to the abnormal conditions which .obtain consequent upon the stress of war. The Bill provides for the imposition of a tax of 
Id. on every ticket exceeding 6d. in value and not exceeding ls., upon tickets exceeding ls. in value an impost of Id. for the first shilling, and of  ½d.  for every 6d. or part of 6d. by which the payment exceeds ls. The Bill will be supplemented by the Entertainments Tax Assessment Bill. 
That will be found in the Entertainments Tax Assessment Bill. This measure will merely impose the taxation, and the question of what places of amusement shall be exempt is dealt with in that complementary measure. Consequently, I ask honorable senators to confine their remarks to the taxation proposals outlined in this Bill. 
Not necessarily. The Entertainments Tax Assessment Bill is now being' dealt with elsewhere, and in it the Senate will have a full opportunity of determining exactly the forms of amusement upon which the tax will be levied. 
In this Bill we are invited to impose a tax upon certain institutions, which' are to be indicated in some other measure. The Assistant Minister, seems' to thinkthat the fact that this Chamber will have control over that Bill is sufficient to justify it in finalizing this measure without knowing what that other Bill contains. I submit it is very important that we should know ' something of the way in which the proposed tax is to be levied. I. therefore suggest that, after, having passed the Bill through Committee, we should not finally relinquish our hold upon it until we have had an opportunity of considering the provisions of the Entertainments Tax Assessment Bill. 
We are all anxious, in view of the approach of Christmas, to complete our business as soon as possible, and, therefore, it may not be inconvenient to call a halt at the report stage until we have considered the complementary measure to this one. . The Bill is distinctly a war proposition. The tax is to be imposed purely on account of our war needs. I wish honorable senators to keep that fact in mind, because, no matter whether we. say "Yes " or " No " to the Bill, this tax will be imposed. If we do not impose it, the States will. 

 Senator MILLEN.We may dislike the tax, or we may favour it, but that is quite immaterial. Whether we say "Yes" or  ' No, ' ' it will be levied . The impost being inevitable, we are faced with this further question, " As it is a war tax, which Government ought to collect it, the one which is called upon to face the expenditure  incidental to the war, or the Govern-  ments which are not? " If we could avoid placing a tax on the sixpenny, tickets for admission to amusements, I should say that the schedule is right as it stands. But these sixp'enny tickets are going to be taxed. Indeed', they are already being taxed elsewhere, and the revenue thus raised - if we do riot impose the tax - will find its way into the State coffers,- instead of into the Federal Treasury. ' In the circumstances, I ask whether we may not reasonably impose a tax on the sixpenny tickets, with the proviso that it shall not become operative except by proclamation, and that such proclamation shall not be issued unless it is seen that the State Governments are going to raid the field. 
Two States have . already done so, and Tasmania has  timidly approached the field by imposing a licence-fee of £10 in respect of a building which will accommodate 700 people. If we pass the Bill in its present form, the New South Wales Government may say that the Commonwealth has not touched the sixpenny tickets, and, therefore, it is justified in doing so. But if we take up the attitude I have outlined, that Government will probably keep its hands off those tickets. I do not wish to tax these sixpenny tickets if the States will give some guarantee that they will not touch them. In the absence of that guarantee, we ought to adopt some precautionary measure such as I have suggested. If the sixpenny tickets are to be taxed, and the people are to pay that taxation in the name of the war and because of the war, the revenue 'derived therefrom should find its way into the Federal Treasury. I do not think that the New South Wales Government would superimpose a tax upon that of the Commonwealth. 
She is levying a light tax of Jd. on a sixpenny ticket, I think . A war tax ought to go into the war treasury. ' It is of no use to abstain from taxing sixpenny tickets out of consideration for the people who would have to pay the tax, if the moment we stand aloof some other taxing body steps in and takes the amount. If this tax is to be collected, it ought to be made clear that the only justification for it is the war. It is monstrous if we abstain, out of consideration for the people, from calling on them for a contribution to the war tax, and immediately some State Government, which has nothing to do with the war, comes along, and, smiling at our consideration for these people, takes from them the dole that we refrain from taking. 
It does not need to. We all know it would not have been brought in but for the war. I do not mind putting in, " For war purposes " if it will make  Senator O'Keefe  any happier. If it is not a war tax, I am against it altogether. I am assenting to it only because I believe it is one of' the necessary measures, unpleasant though they be, which must be passed to finance the expenses consequent on the war. That being so, I am strongly disinclined to see another Government collect what is really a war tax, when that Government is in no sense called on to meet war liabilities. It may be a little difficult, but I suggest that we might introduce an amendment levying the tax to-day, but holding it in abeyance until the issue of a proclamation to be issued only .in the event of any other' State Government attempting to impose that tax which we now refrain from imposing. 
I am opposed to this kind of taxation. It is not only undemocratic, but altogether out of line with modern ideas of how the money required to carry on the government of the country ought to be provided. I can show a much better field of taxation than this. If the Government is so helpless as to be compelled to tax the little innocent amusements of the people, it ought to throw up the sponge. We ought to have some clearly-defined ideas as to the finding of revenue. I look on the community as a huge insurance society represented . by the Government, every one paying a premium according to the amount of benefit he receives. The premium ought to be in proportion to the security afforded to the individual by the Government. The Government throws its shield over every man, woman, and child. It preserves our lives, or we expect that it will, our liberties, and our property. Every man's life is of equal value with the life of his neighbour, and the life of every woman and child is on the same plane. But when we come to property there is a remarkable difference between the various units of the community. Some men own property worth millions ; other people own only what they stand up in. It necessarily follows that those who have a large stake in the country, as it is called, ought to pay a higher premium than those who have a comparatively small stake. Shortly put, contributions to the revenue ought to be in proportion to one's capacity to pay. That is the principle I would lay down in regard to taxation. I would not tax a man because he owned a motor car,' or because he had a fine and well-furnished house, or because he wore certain kinds of jewellery. I would tax him solely on what he possessed, which is the only legitimate method of imposing taxation. That is the kind of taxation which has always been advocated by the Labour party, of which  Senator Guthrie  was, and, I suppose, will tell us he is still, a member. No doubt this tax was proposed by the late Government, but I scouted it then just as I do now. It is a deliberately undemocratic method of taxation, which ought not to be allowed to pass by the Senate, a majority of which is made up of Labour members. It is going back to the dark ages. We read of the existence one or two hundred years ago of every kind of iniquitous tax, the purpose of which was to save the rich from taxation. They used to have a window tax, and all kinds of other tiddly-winking taxation, so as to save the rich from being compelled to pay their fair share towards the cost of government. There was some excuse for them in those times, because the rich were the only people who sat in Parliament, and naturally they passed such legislation as suited themselves; but now the poor are supposed to be represented in Parliament, and here we have a proposal brought down to tax their amusements. Some people appear to think that to go to a place of amusement is abso lutely wicked. Every human being must have a certain amount of amusement.  Senator Millen  said this was a war tax, and that he would not consent to it if We were not at war'. I say that in a time of strain like this people require more amusement than under normal conditions, and instead of that being an argument for the imposition of a tax of this character the Government are proposing a tax in a diametrically opposite direction. If we want money for the war we should go to the people who have got it. There are people in this country who own, I believe, nearly £2,000,000,000 worth of wealth. How much of that are we getting? Ought we not to exhaust that source of taxation before we attempt to interfere with picture shows or theatres? 
I cannot think where you get your £2,000,000,000 from. 
Some people say whisky is necessary; would you free it from taxation ? 
SenatorRussel.- Do you think it is the working man who pays 10s. 6d. for admission to Flemington or for a seat in the dress circle of a theatre? 
It will not take me long to indicate my attitude upon the Bill, as I realize that all honorable senators are anxious to bringthe session to a close. I am going to oppose the second reading, because I do not believe in taxing the amusements of the people, especially, as  Senator Stewart  has so ably outlined, when there are in the Commonwealth citizens who arenot being taxed to anyappreciable extent at all, so far as their contributions to the war are concerned. The late Government, in their financial proposals, set out that there would be a wealth tax of a certain amount, covering a certain period, also that it was the intention to take all war profits, after allowing a certain amount in interest. 
I am coming to that. The Government also intimated that an entertainments tax would be imposed. 
That is so, and I want to point out that my attitude towards this tax is the same as it would have been in regard to a similar proposal of the previous Government. That Government had a solid following in both branches of the Parliament, and though certain proposals were submitted to a meeting of the party which I attended, members of the party were not bound in any way to support either. Accordingly I thought myself as free then as I do today to support or oppose them. At that meeting only the financial statement was made. 
And I say it again. 
I want to make myself quite clear. I know what I am saying, and I am not going to be taken off the track. At the meeting to which I refer the financial statement was made, but no vote was taken in connexion with the proposed war profits, wealth levy, or the entertainments tax, and I defy any honorable senator who was present then to prove that I am wrong. 
They were not always so, because the day after they left the meeting the morning papers contained a report of the proceedings, as. furnished by the Prime Minister. 
I admit that, but I have been challenged by the Minister for Works, who asked me why I did not support these proposals, and I am saying that we are not asked to. Surely that is not giving away something which should not have been disclosed. 
I am not raising any objection at all; it is  Senator Guthrie  who complains. 
The honorable gentleman need not get alarmed. I' am not taking any objection to what  Mr. Hughes  said. I was merely replying to an interjectionby the Minister for Works. During the recent referendum campaign I told the electors from every platform that I would not support an amusements tax because it was an attempt' to levy upon the poorer sections of. the community. I hold that opinion to-day, and I say the principle is wrong, even though sixpenny tickets may be exempted, to tax any man whose family may wish to go to a picture show, the prices for admission to which may be1s. 
That is my trouble. If I was sure that the proprietors would not pass the tax on I would support the Bill, but I know . perfectly well that it will be passed on. 
It is usually done. When I and two of my colleagues were coming through from Western Australia recently we decided to while away an hour or two at a picture show in Adelaide, where the State entertainments tax is in operation, and we found an intimation on a poster in front of the theatre that the price of a sixpenny ticket was l½d. extra.From our experience, therefore, I am arguing that the1d. tax, as  proposed in this Bill, on a shilling ticket will not be borne by the proprietors of the theatre, but by the patrons. 
The honorable gentleman is quite right, but the Assistant Minister, when moving the second reading of the Bill, did not intimate that precautions would be taken by the Government to see that the tax was not passed on. If he will guarantee me that even now I will support the Bill . 
And because it is a special case, I think that the proprietors of these theatres are better able to bear the loss of that penny, and the taxation itself, than are the patrons of them. So far as the principle of the tax is concerned, I am against it. It is a very old and true saying that "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy." We know that one of the most popular forms of recreation for the working classes is the picture show. Whilst there may beexhibited in places films that should not be shown, and should be prohibited, still, it is a cheap and very often instructive method of passing a couple of hours in the afternoon or evening. "But be that as it may, when I see a Government that proposes not to take the whole of the war profits, as was originally intended; when I see a Government not going on with the levy on wealth in the way which was proposed, I fail to see why this Government should come down for a start and want to tax the poorer portion of. the community. After all, what amount are they going to get from this source? It will be very small. 
That is just onehalf of what the Government thought they would get from the original proposal . 
Even had the Government adhered to the original proposal, it is not the amount of revenue obtained from the tax I am alluding to, but the principle. I do, not believe in imposing a tax on the poorer people of the community, who, it is well known, have very little time for recreation. If they have a chance to enjoy a few hours in a cheap way, I do not think it is right for any Government to impose a tax which would prevent them from obtaining that little recreation. 
So far, I see no indication of that being done. If the Minister, in his reply, will intimate that it is the intention of the Government to see that the tax is not passed  on,  a new phase will arise. In default of such an assurance from the Government, I must vote against the second reading of the measure. 
.- I think it was  Senator Millen  who said that this form of taxation would not have been heard of but for the war. I do not think that any one will dispute that statement. I am one of those who believe that, although the tax is introduced because there is war, once the tax is passed by this Parliament it will be here to stay. 
That remark is perfectly true; but Governments and their Treasurers are very loath to let go a substantial source of revenue, once they realize the amount of money which can be obtained by probably one of the easiest methods possible, and that is by taxing the amusements of the people. I am a Labour man, who is now, and always have been, opposed to this form of taxation. In the years that have gone, the classes we represent here had very few opportunities for mental improvement, and had very few of the pleasures which fell to the lot of a certain favoured section of the community. Our platform has been a comprehensive one, making for the elevation" and the betterment of the vast army of struggling industrials, and by the substantial progress we have made in the different States, we have enabled thousands of men, women, and children to have to-day some mental recreation which they had not the privilege of enjoying ten or twenty years ago. The principle embodied in this form of tax is altogether wrong. Are we to adduce as a reason why we shouldimpose taxation that all forms  of luxury should  be taxed? We know  that that is the reason  why some  persons favour an amusements tax. They say, " An amusement is a luxury, and why should not people pay for a luxury?" 
I think it is a very sound argument to tax luxuries. The argument of the working men is that they have too few of the luxuries of life, and, in order that they may have fewer, some of the members of the party I belong to propose that they should pay additional taxation in order that luxury shall be farther and farther removed. 
I have given my vote and expressed my view on the taxation of silk. 
Once the taxation of luxuries is conceded, where are my honorable friends going to stop? Are they going to tax motor cars or those who partake of motor drives? Are they going to tax pianos? 
What I mean is putting a war tax on pianos. I am not speaking of a Customs duty; I am talking about special taxation, such as is proposed in this Bill. Then we are told that there are some persons who go to places of entertainment in evening dress and pay a big price for admission, and many who go to Flemington and other places of amusement, and that they ought to be taxed because they go to such places. Why should they be taxed? 
If the honorable senator had been at the Caucus he would have known what I said. If he is particularly anxious to know what I said I will tell him. But I will not tell him unless he wants me to do so. 
Absolutely. I have been perfectly consistent in my opposition to this form of taxation. No one can charge me with inconsistency on that point. 
I cannot help that. It shows that we are not, as some persons allege, a machine party, and have to do what we are told. If the Trades Hall is in favour of taxing amusements, I am not with that body. But I do not think that the Trades Hall, as an institution, would be so foolish as to propose, that a tax should be levied on the amusements of the people whom it represents. 
I accept what satisfies me, andI reject what does not satisfy me. 
Does the honorable senator want to know what I did at that meeting? I am one. of those who, whatever my sins or shortcomings may be, have never made known anything which has taken place at a party meeting when it has been held inprivate. I have held that view through life, but if the honorable senator wants me to tell honorable senators what I said and did, I will tell them, but not otherwise. 
Of course, they know what I said. Does not the honorable senator see what they are after? 
What revenue did the Government expect to obtain from this form of taxation ? 
When, on a former occasion, it was suggested that all forms of taxation should be taxed, we were told that the Government hoped to realize from this source £1,000,000. 
I was notpresent when the Minister was introducing the Bill; but admitting thatthe estimate was based on an error, we are now told that a revenue of £350,000 will be derived from the tax. That is a very small sum when we cornel to consider the avenues which' are open to the Government. Why is it proposed to tax amusements, and allow to go scot-free from any form of taxation, probably for all time, those patriotic gentlemen who put some money into the war loan? Should this Government be permitted to remain on the Treasury bench, these gentlemen are to be allowed, when the nextloanis floated, to go scot-free, and all those persons who participate in any form of amusement, and pay the large sum of1s. for admittance, are to be taxed. 
I should say that this tax will cover all forms of amusement. The Minister for Works shakes his head as if all forms of amusement are not to be taxed. It would be interesting to know what forms of amusement are to be exempted from taxation. . 
That is an extraordinary answer to my question. All free shows are to be exempted from taxation, says  Senator Senior.  The present Government propose, in connexion with the taxation of war profits, that the exploiters shall be relieved of taxation by imposing taxation upon people who, when all is said and done, have too few opportunities of attending places of amusement. During the progress of the war, many persons have made abnormal profits by exploiting the great working mass of the community. These profits are not to be taken from them, as proposed by the late Government, but their taxation is to be eased down as compared with the taxation of war-time profits proposed in the Old Country.  Mr. Lloyd  George's Government propose to take the whole of the war-time profits. The late Commonwealth Government proposed to take the whole of the war-time profits for the second year, but the present Government propose to take only 75 per cent. of the war profits in the second year, after allowing a fair profit of 7 or 8 per cent. In the Old Country, the estimate of profits is to be based upon those earned during the three years immediately preceding the war, and  Mr. Lloyd  George's Government now propose that the whole of the war-time profits shall be taken by the 
Government. There is one consideration which ought to guide the Labour party in the matter of taxation. This proposed taxation is opposed to the principles upon which honorable members of the Labour party were first elected. It is a form of taxationto which no one who has given attention to the Labour platform or to economics can subscribe. Honorable senators opposite justify it now because this is war time, but once an honorable senator gives his vote for this form of taxation, because it is war time, he may be assured that future Governments will continue it as long as possible. To justify this taxation, one must break away from a first principle of the Labour party, which is direct taxation. This is not direct taxation, but indirect taxation of the worst kind. It is a special class tax. The taxation to which all members of the Labour party can subscribe is land-value taxation. 
Everyone is more or less affected by land values. 
Yes, I do. 
When I say that it is indirect taxation, I mean exactly what I say. How is it proposed to raise the tax? 
In that sense it is a direct tax, but the proposal to impose it has been justified on the ground of the immense fortunes that are made by those promoting entertainments. But by this form of taxation wedo not get at the proprietors of theatres or the shareholders of picture shows. 
Only to that extent, and we know that they are not generously disposed in that way. 
What I mean is that those enthe opportunity presents itself to those engaged in promoting entertainments,, they will take every care that they do not' pay the tax, but that those who witness the different entertainments presented by them will pay it. 
When it was proposed to increase 'the income tax, and to impose a wealth tax, more than one deputation waited upon the ex-Treasurer,  Mr. Higgs,  to suggest that those. proposed taxes should be reduced.  Mr. Higgs  was adamant. He gave the deputationist. nno encouragement whatever. Later on, I read in the financial columns of the  Herald  a paragraph in which it was explained that, although these representations had been made, and the ex-Treasurer had refused to give them any consideration, it .would be all right eventually, because the taxation would be passed on. 
The deputations to which 1 have referred protested against the increased taxation, and  Mr. Higgs  refused to reduce, it ; but later on, it was said that the taxation would be passed on, bo that it would not affect the persons who made complaints to the ex-Treasurer. In just the same way it is explained that the entertainments tax will not affect those engaged in promoting entertainments. 
Every one grumbles about taxation. 
That does not  alter my view of the matter. I ask myself whether this is a proper form of taxation, and I say that it is not. It is breaking away from .the first principles of taxation affirmed by the Labour party. If the Government require money, they could obtain very much more than £350,000 from the taxation of land values, a legitimate form of taxation, which there ought not to be any hesitation about adopting at this time. 
I will  admit"  that ; but that is no reason why I should! vote for this tax. Surely the Government do not pretend that ' unless they can1 pass this Bill they will riot be able to pay the interest on our war indebtedness.. It is far better for us to say here and! now that we do not believe' in this form of taxation, and we think that the Government should  impose  direct taxation. Much! as I object to the present Government continuing to occupy the Treasury; bench, I say that if they imposed a tax on land values they would be doing something that would commend itself to a very large section of the citizens of Australia. 
There is a tax of a very infinitesimal character. The fortunes made in Australia have been derived mainly from land. 
The peculiar thing about that land tax was that when!, it was proposed,  Senator Millen  and some  of his friends said that it would ruin tha people, but, after it had been in opera*  tion for some time, they said that it' hai not had the effect of bursting up the big estates, and did not achieve the object which the Labour party had set out- ta achieve by its imposition. 
The honorablesenator is entitled to allude to a land tax as an alternative method of raising money, but he is not entitled to discuss that matter in detail as if a Land Tax Bill were before the Senate. 
My ruling is that the honorable senator is entitled to advocate that the money required by the Government, should not be raised in the way proposed by the Bill, but by a land tax as an alternative method. But he is not entitled to discuss in detail the merits or demerits of a land tax as he would be if a Land Tax Bill were before the Senate. Otherwise the discussion upon any Bill might become interminable. 
I hope the honorable senator will not try to evade my ruling. 
I would remind the honorable senator that the question beforethe Senate is the Entertainments Tax Bill, and not thatof a land tax. 
I find myself almost in perfect agreement with the remarks of  Senator Findley.  It seems tome that we have reached a remarkable situation in Commonwealth politics when we find a Government which can spend £500,000 on a referendum and a proclamation which was entirely futile- 
Yes. Seeing that the Government spent, without a wink, £500,000 on a referendum and a proclamation calling men up for home service 
Well, it was the late Government. I say that a proposal to add to the multitudinous taxes which the people have to pay, for the sake of collecting £350,000 annually, has neither equity nor commonsense behind it. As  Senator Findley  has already pointed out, this £350,000 could easily be raised from other sources of taxation. ' 
Yes. But I want to see the taxation placed upon other shoulders. 
No. I know of no plank in the Labour platform which says anything about an Entertainments Tax. I never agreed to these second-hand methods of taxation, because I know that by going direct to those who are in receipt of big incomes the same object can be accomplished without creating a new tax. . One has only to look at the new digest issued by  Mr. Knibbs  to discover fields of taxation which may be legitimately exploited to-day. According to  Mr. Knibbs  there are 7,437 persons in the Commonwealth - and the position is understated rather than overstated, because this is merely a progress report - who take £15,481,487 of the national income annually. Each one of these incomes is in excess of £1,000 per annum, the average being £2,800 per year If, in. lieu of this tax on amusements, which will fall very largely on the working classes whom my honorable friends opposite claim to represent, we levied a super-tax of 6d. in the £1 on all incomesabove £1,000 per year, it would yield a revenue of £387,000 annually. What is wrong with a proposition of that kind? 
In other words, we should hesitate before we touch to the extent of an additional 3d. in the £1, persons who are in receipt of incomes in excess of £1,000 a year. 
I am quite aware of that. 
I would like to see figures to prove that in any case in which an income is in excess of £1,000 a year, it would be more than half absorbed by the State and Federal income taxes. Although we have a heavy land tax in operation, its effect has not been to smash up the very big estates. The seasons have been so prosperous that the large land-holders are paying the tax. In 1913-14 there were 404 men in the Commonwealth holding estates of between £50,000 and £100,000 in value. The aggregate capital value of those estates was £24,802,803. During the same year there were 128 gentlemen or companies holding estates worth from £100,000 to £250,000 unimproved values, and these estates aggregated £16,435,560. In other words, there were 532 individuals or companies in Australia whose estates totalled an unimproved value of £42,338,363. What about levying a supertax on them ? If we imposed a tax of only 3d. in the £1 upon these gentlemen, it would realize far more revenue thanwill be collected under this Bill, and no one with less than £50,000 worth of land would pay the super -tax. 
Will the honorable senator support my proposal? 
We could also alter our gradations in regard to the land tax. 
If my proposal were adopted, this Bill would not be necessary. In my own small State, large estates still exist. There are big estates there, which, although they have been subdivided, have not been subdivided at the rate that we had hoped, and the companies that own the estates are paying dividends. What are we going to do about them ? 
I am not going to vote for a tax which falls on that small section of the community who have at present heavy indirect Customs taxation to pay, and, in addition, are being taxed by the State instrumentalities very much out of proportion to their incomes. I am not prepared to do it while there are men in Australia who own the greater part of Australia, and are not prepared to shoulder their responsibilities. For that reason I cannot support this tax as to either the rate or the principle, and shall vote against it on the second-reading stage, and also in Committee. 
I give the Bill my hearty support and approval. It is brought forward for the first time, and is quite justified in the circumstances.  Senator Needham, Senator Findley,  and  Senator Ready  are all opposing a taxation proposal introduced by the late Government, and  Senator Findley,  in his concluding remarks, said he was doing so honestly and sincerely. These proposals were agreed to at the Caucus which those gentlemen attended, and not a word was said in opposition to, them, but now that they have been brought down by the new Government they are opposed. From that fact we can judge the amount of honesty and sincerity that there is in the opposition shown to them this afternoon. 
Only last week we heard the greatest howl that, perhaps, has been heard in this Chamber about watering down the taxation proposals of the previous Government, but we have an exhibition to-day of still further watering down. 
No, it was the general, taxation proposals introduced by the late Government only a few months ago. The honorable senator was then behind them, and did not utter a word of opposition to the taxation they put forward. We can judge the amount of honesty and sincerity there is behind the howl we have heard this afternoon. 
Where was SenatorReady then? Was he not the Whip of that party, and did he not continue to be the Whip right up to the time the new Government was formed? Was there any objection from him or from  Senator Needham?  Did any of those honorable senators raise their voice against the Bill till this afternoon, with the exception, perhaps, of  Senator Findley? 
SenatorDE LARGIE.- Thehonorable senator took good care not to raise objection in the Caucus or here until it was safe to do so. 
I am stating what happened there. It is not necessary to be there to know what takes place. The best way to find out what happens in the Caucus is to read the  Age  or  Argus  next morning. The only meetings of which those papers cannot get hold of the secrets are those of the new Nationalist party. This kind of taxation is quite justified in the circumstances, and the fact that it was brought in with other measures by the Labour Government before there was any split in the party is. the very best proof of that. We are merely following in the' wake of every other country engaged in the war. War conditions have brought about a change of circumstances in taxation, as in everything else, and we are quite justified in adopting every available source of revenue. It is of no use to talk of raising the old-age pension or of providing pensions for the widows and orphans of fallen soldiers unless we are prepared to take every legitimate means to raise the money. Where can it come from, unless we go to those who have money to spend on entertainments and luxuries? 
When the time comes I shall be prepared to go as far as any one to tax them, but you can go too far in many ways. The taxation of amusements has never yet been touched, and there is nothing very extraordinary in it in war time. In the Old Country one has to pay 2d. on the1s. at every entertainment, whether one goes to the threepenny picture show, the sixpenny musichall, or the ten-shilling theatre. The people who have money to go to entertainments in these days are those best able to pay the extra taxation. 
The honorable senator only a few months ago was one of those who were going to impose this taxation. He was as silent as the grave on the matter until there was a change of Government. That is a further example of the honesty and sincerity in the opposition in regard to these proposals. 
I have learnt since I came here what the honorable senator's attitude, was in the Caucus. I found war. taxation in operation in Canada, which is a new country, with conditions approximating our own. 
-Although there is not, the taxation of luxuries is as severe there as, and in some ways severer than, in Australia. In Canada there is not only an entertainments tax of the same kind as in Great Britain, but there is a 10 per cent, war tax on a seat in the observation car or a sleeping berth ticket on the Canadian-Pacific railway. There is an extra tax for war purposes on letters, newspapers, and post-cards. Surely an entertainments tax is far more justifiable than a tax on mail matter. As Australia is paying a great deal more per head of population for war purposes than any other country, we are quite justified in looking for new sources of revenue. I am quite prepared to see every reasonable taxation imposed on any kind of land, but it will be found before very long, as many of us who have had a little experience in land have discovered already, that we can tax that form of wealth altogether too heavily. If I had my way I would strike off every tax that is keeping, the working man on the land in the position in which we find him to-day. He is the worst paid worker to be found in any part of Australia. The man on the land is being sweated, and until he is organized he will have to bear the burden. 
There is very little land monopoly in Western Australia. Plenty of land is available there for any one who desires it. I can get the honorable senator 160 acres there for nothing. If those who are always howling about land taxation want to test their ability to utilize land, and get that enormous wealth which is' said to be waiting for anybody who takes up land, I can offer them free farms galore in Western Australia. No less than 700 farms have been given up during the last twelve months in that State. I notice that those who howl most about land taxation take very good care to have nothing to do with the land as a profession. 
We have as good land as in any other part of the continent. We have land of every variety. 
That was very good for an election cry, but, unfortunately for my pocket, it was not true. 
I have assured the Administration openly in the Senate that I would give them such support as I thought necessary in regard to their war programme of taxation or any other form of legislative activity. Whether the numbers are up for or against this measure, I am prepared to carry out my promise, and vote for the Bill. The only people I am sorry for in this connexion are the unfortunate State Treasurers. In war, I know, we want men and money, and if we were not at wax, I should certainly not vote for this measure, but would regard this field of taxation as one that ought more particularly to be reserved for the activities of State Treasurers and State Parliaments. In war, however, all things are abnormal, and the wise men who framed the Constitution reserved to the National Government full power of taxation over everything and anything. In normal times I objected to the imposition of a Federal land tax, but had it been proposed contemporaneously with the war I should not have voted against it, as I always said it ought to be regarded as a tax for war times. This measure, whatever its merits or demerits, is one about which there will practically be no protests whatever, because the people who go to picture shows will be quite prepared to pay the tax. If a man wishes to take his family or some friends to a picture show, he will be quite willing to pay the prices demanded. We .are told .that upon a ls. 6d. ticket there will be a tax of l£d. Now, a ticket at ls. 6d. will insure to the holder thereof a pretty luxurious seat in the ordinary picture show, and a man who can afford such a seat will not object to the extra l£d. demanded. I must say, however, that I do not like duality of taxation. I do not like to see a' Federal tax superimposed upon a State tax, but this kind of thing is obviously inevitable in our present circumstances, and because of the financial situation arising out of this great war. But I suggest to honorable senators that, in regard to future taxation, we should have some regard for the difficulties of the State Treasurers, and, if possible, avoid hampering them to any great extent by an invasion of fields which, in normal circumstances, might be regarded as State areas of taxation. I know this tax is going to be a fairly productive one, and that in spite of the protests from managers of the picture shows, it will be received by the general public with  comparative  complacency. That being so, my only regret - if I may be permitted to repeat myself - is that it constitutes, to my mind, an invasion of the field that ought to be reserved for the Treasurers of the different States of the Commonwealth. Just one word more. I must say that I have been much amused at those gentlemen who are continually urging the imposition of heavy taxation upon land, and who are saying that land must bear its full share of taxation. It may be that- if this war continues, and our debt increases, the land will have to bear still greater burdens. But I do pity those gentlemen who, while advocating the imposition of heavy burdens on the land, are also prepared to make that taxation heavier by fixing prices for primary products in a downward direction. 
I am saying that the arguments of some honorable senators are double-barrelled, because they are prepared to place heavier burdens on the land and also to fix prices for the products of the land in a downward direction. 
 The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.-  The honorable senator is not op titled to discuss that matter on this Bill. 
I am aware that 1 am transgressing, and I only referred to the matter because some of the previous speakers touched upon it. 
I am speaking of the general policy, and not making particular reference to the Federal Government. . 
It has been car,ried into operation. 
It is on the Labour ' party's programme. 
The policy of the Labour party is to advocate the fixing of prices of primary products in normal times. However, in connexion with .this Bill now before the Senate, I can promise the Government I will vote for it as it stands. 
I think one mistake was made by  Senator de  Largie when he said that the taxation proposals were agreed to by the party with which he was previously associated. This is a measure which, even had there been no political crisis, would have been considered by the Parliament. When we realize that every country affected by this war is in difficulty, especially as regards taxation, and that, so far, Australia has not felt it to the same extent, it seems to me there is ample justification to vote for this measure, as I propose to do. Let us see what it is. We have heard a, lot of talk about hypocrisy in politics, and I have in my mind the Ministerial statement read by  Senator Pearce,  on behalf of the Labour party, before the referendum was taken. It was presented to this House by command, and ordered to be printed on the 27th September, 1916, so it is useless for any honorable senator .to say that he did not know a referendum was to be taken. As a matter of fact, we were preparing then for the referendum. The financial statement to which I have referred contains this paragraph - 
Proposed entertainment tax. - This tax will amount to a halfpenny on n ticket costing threepence, a penny on a ticket costing sixpence, and a penny on each additional sixpence or part thereof. . 
That was in the statement presented to this Chamber, and I say that, independent of the views of individual honorable senators, had there been no crisis, that proposal would have been carried with, per- haps, an exception that threepenny tickets would have been exempted. 
Undoubtedly, and what was it that induced honorable senators to agree to this sort of taxation ? We might just as well examine the circumstances and understand clearly the reason. Prior to that time, the exemption on the income of the wage earner stood at £156 a year, with an allowance of £13 for each child, so that a man with a wife and four children could claim exemption on an income up to £208. When this proposal for increased war taxation was brought up, an alteration made in the income tax exemption induced a considerable number of the Labour party to agree to an entertainments tax. The  income tax  exemption for children was raised from £13 to £26, with the- result that a man with a wife and four children under the age of sixteen years could claim exemption on an income up to £260 a year, and escape practically all taxation except that collected indirectly through the Customs. Now, that is the position to-day, and that is the reason - I am speaking personally - that I agreed to taxation on entertainments, for I believe that a man with an income tax exemption of £260 could afford to pay a small amount in the way of war taxation if he patronized a picture show. I admit that the tax is bad in principle, and I do not believe that it would have been proposed or mentioned but for the severe strain imposed upon the finances of this country owing to the war. I think, however, that the Government would have made it easier for the members of this party if they had informed us, before this Bill was introduced, what classes of entertainment would come under the proposed tax, because there are various forms of entertainment which, in my opinion, should not be included. As the measure stands, there is no exemption practically, and we shall have to wait until we. get the Assessment Bill before these details can be ascertained. I repeat that when it was proposed by the previous Government to relieve the family man of other taxation, the Labour party agreed to pass legislation in the form of an entertainments tax, and this would have been carried had not the party crisis occurred. I believe that at that time there would have been a big majority in support of a tax upon the sixpenny tickets which under this Bill are to be exempt. 
No. I think that, in spite of the exemption under the income tax, the majority of the members would have objected to a tax on threepenny tickets under this proposal, but I believe that sixpenny tickets would have been included, whereas this Bill exempts the latter. This war has caused a very great deal of inconvenience in every . country -of the world. The war has not been raging in Australia, and so far it has not made a great deal of difference to an enormous proportion of its people. A large number of labourers have been taken out of this country, and so people have been able to obtain employment here. In very many cases wages have been increased during the last two years. 
Yes. I believe that this taxation will be of a temporary character. Seeing that the people of this country are enjoying better conditions than are enjoyed in any- other belligerent country, I believe that a big majority of our population are not only able but are prepared to pay taxation for the purposes of the war. There are large numbers of workers here who would be prepared to pay more taxation if called upon, rather than be stuck up every day or two at the street corner and asked to contribute to private funds. I have spoken to many men on this subject. When I was explaining to a friend only a month ago that there would be increased taxation - a tax on pictures and one thing and another - he said to me, " That does not matter." I told my friend that it was intended to impose a tax of £1 a year on every single man who was making at least £100 a year, and he said, " A tax of £1 a year ! My goodness ! I only wish that they would put a couple of pounds on me, and relieve me from the importunities to which I am subjected every time I go down the street. If I were to give to the various funds to which I am asked to subscribe every time I go out, I would hardly have a shilling to take home to my wife and children." If this proposed taxation is imposed, it may perhaps prevent persons from subscribing to these funds as freely as they do now. But that will not impose any more hardship. I believe that people will rather welcome taxation of this kind when they know that it is to be only temporary. It is all very well for some honorable senators to turn round and say, " The party need not have considered legislation of this description; they could have imposed a heavier land tax, a heavier income tax, and a heavier tax on the subscribers to war loans." Let me remind the Senate that there were not many honorable senators who voted to tax such persons. I believe that investments in war loans should be as open to taxation as any other investments into which people put money. That is the reason why I supported the proposal to tax war investments. I did not believe that millions of money in this country should be altogether exempt from any sort of taxation. But we were not able to carry our amendment. If those who now say that it is fair to tax war investments had recorded their votes in favour of our amendment there would have been no exemption today in that regard. We may come back to the proposal later; I do not know. Seeing that the statement laid on the table on the 27th September, and printed, included the imposition of an entertainments tax, and seeing, further, that we as a body had practically agreed to the proposal, because we had exempted a larger measure of income in connexion with the worker than he had previously enjoyed, I propose to vote for the entertainments tax on this occasion. I do not believe in being a humbug. If I had been strongly opposed to the proposals of the late Government, I should have risen and said, "I do not believe in the proposals of the Government whom I am sitting behind." Seeing that there has been a change 'of Government, and that the present Ministers have eased up the taxation as practically proposed by the Labour party as a whole in September last, and that some more relief is given to those who are in the habit of attending entertainments, I propose to vote for the second reading of this Bill. I can quite understand persons saying - for it was a statement which affected me - "How about the man in the  country?  That is the reason why I am  very  glad to see the easing up of this taxation. In the cities persons can go down the street and enter a picture show for 3d., and they think they are paying a big sum if they pay 6d. It is the people in the country districts who will get a little relief from this measure. Travelling companies have to charge a great deal more in a number of towns than they do when they are stationary. When the Government offer cheap fares, country people, who do not get so much amusement as do town people, .come down to the towns at various festivals. They visit the picture shows, and other entertainments because they have not been able to get near them in the country. Again, we are told that this legislation is going to cover persons who go to races and all that sort of thing. During the conscription campaign we could hear from one end of the country to the other this complaint : ' ' H'ow about those persons who are ready and able to attend race-courses almost every day of the week, and do not propose to do8 anything else?" That is what brought on the whole trouble. To-day we hear not only about taxing persons who go to racecourses, and are able to pay big prices for admission, but we also hear a very large number of persons expressing the view that if that was the reason why we had to go through the turmoil of a  referen-dum,  it was a good reason why the Government should have closed the places of entertainment for a time. But to say that by this measure we are interfering to a very great extent with entertainments like these, seems to me to be so much humbug. I propose, as I did propose when I was following a Government on the other side, to vote for the second reading of this measure. 

 Senator O'KEEFE (Tasmania) T5.231. - The arguments raised against the .Bill have mainly been on the line that it imposes a tax on those entertainments which are patronized by the poorer people. Of course, to a great extent that argument is correct. In looking at the entertainments which are patronized by those who earn the lowest wages, that is the poorest people, one naturally turns to the picture shows. As the measure has been altered since it was introduced in another place, and the tax of one half -penny on ticketsbelow the value of sixpence has been knocked out, leaving any charge over sixpence to be the minimum to be taxed, it seems to me that a great deal of the argument which might, in the first instance, have been used against the measure has been swept away. In the cities and towns the prices of admission to picture shows are generally 6d. and1s., or 6d. and children half-price. At almost all the picture shows in Melbourne and its suburbs, the prices, I understand, are 6d. and 3d. I was guilty of attending a picture show on Saturday night, and for the sum of 3s. I took in a rather large family of eight. For four adults I paid 6d. each, and for four children 3d. each. It was a very good show, and 3s. was: the amount which I paid for front seats. 
At all events the seats were as good as any one could desire on a hot night. 
On the general principle of taxing amusementsI am going to vote to-day on the lines which I have always followed. I have always been in favour of taxing amusements reasonably. I have always held that as we have to get some measure of revenue to run the country, amusements are a fairly reasonable source from which to obtain part of that revenue, so long as we keep within fair limits. Still I cannot admit that this is a tax on the people who go to these amusements. My view is that an entirely wrong idea is held by those who think that this tax will be passed on. I do not think for a moment that the proprietors of theatres or picture shows who are now charging1s. admission will charge1s.1d. 
If the proprietor of a picture show charges1s.1d. a head for admission, he will probably soon find his neighbour charging1s. a head, in order to get the custom. In the case of a big rush at the ticket windows, the trouble of giving change, by reason of the tax of1d. or½d., would be too great. I do not believe for a moment that if this taxation is imposed those proprietors who are now charging1s. a head will put up their charge on the public. 
I am surprised to hear that statement. If. it is being done there now I do not think it will be con tinued for very long.It will be remembered that when the last increase was made in the Excise duties on spirits - it was a very heavy increase which affected hotelkeepers. very severely - the trade immediately brought into operation a new scale or charges. In many places where there were enough hotelkeepers to have an organization, they combined and adopted a scale of charges. For a little while, but only for a little while, that scale was in force. Then some hotelkeepers began to break away. They found that it paid them better to induce custom by sticking to the old charges, even although they might lose profit, than to turn away custom by charging an increased price for a drink to meet the increased taxation. 
In many places in Australia the prices are the same as they were before the increased taxation. Although hotelkeepers increased their charges for the time, they decided it was better to go back to the old prices than to risk the loss of trade. I believe that this tax will fall upon the proprietors of theatres and picture shows, many of whom, even although this is war time, are making a good deal of money from their places of amusement. I have no objection to this, because it shows that large numbers of people are in a position to afford recreation which is the right of every one. At this time, when we are looking to every reasonable source for the production of increased revenue to cany on the war, it does seem to me that it is not an unfair proposal to tax amusements. I have said that I do not think the proprietors of theatres and picture shows will refuse to pay the tax, and even if they should attempt to pass it on, I believe that their patrons will be found ready to pay their share of this taxation, at all events during the continuation of the war. I was' not opposed to this war taxation measure prior to the trouble that arose between the Labour party and the present Government, and I do not intend to oppose it now. I shall support the Bill as it stands. 
The proposals made by the Government in this Bill scarcely warrant the amount of discussion they have received this afternoon. A few weeks ago we were nearly all agreed that it is a fair thing under existing conditions that amusements should bear some taxation, to meet the expenses of the war. "We know that in the Old Land taxation is being raised to-day by means which, in ordinary times, the people would not tolerate. Though the people are subjected to a good deal of inconvenience in the collection of this taxation, they are cheerfully putting up with it, because they know' that the revenue derived from the taxation is to meet the expenses of the war. I am better satisfied with the proposals of the Government than I was when similar proposals were first submitted to the party by the ex-Treasurer. I did not think it was worth while for the Federal Government to go in for the taxation of threepenny tickets. I am glad that they have agreed to. exempt even sixpenny tickets. 
Yes, we may leave the threepenny and sixpenny tickets to the States. I should be opposed generally to the Commonwealth interfering with this source of revenue but for the fact that the taxation is imposed to meet the cost of carrying on the war. Some honorable senators abuse the Government for introducing this Bill, and they ask that there should be an increase in the land tax. They are casting about for a means, not of shifting the incidence of taxation, but of embarrassing the present Government. I ask them whether they consider it is a fair thing that persons patronizing race-courses at the present time should not pay something towards the expenses of the war? , At this time, when there is so much real fighting to be done at the war, I ask whether men who are prepared to pay £1, £2, or £3 to see a couple of pugilists knock each other about should not be called upon to pay some taxation to raise revenue for the conduct of the war? 
The honorable senator knows as well as I do the principle that is behind this taxation. We should all like to see the low-priced ticket exempted, but certain honorable senators have this afternoon urged that all entertainment tickets should be exempt from taxation. I say that persons who patronise race-courses, football and cricket matches, and especially stadium entertainments, ought not to be allowed to escape some measure of taxation. 
I agree with the honorable senator. We have had an entertainments tax in South Australia for some months, and I have never heard a man or a woman complain about it. But I believe that if the Federal tax were to be added to the State tax on a threepenny ora sixpenny ticket for a place of amusement the impost would be rather too severe. Some speakers have said that if a difference had not occurred between the two sections of the Labour party this measure of taxation would have been brought forward, and would have been passed. Every honest member of this Parliament will agree that it was the intention of the Labour party to impose this form of taxation, and that only the exemptions were to be matters for consideration by individual members. But wherever an opportunity presents itself to do something which might harass the present Government, it is seized upon by certain honorable senators. The Government have been blamed for watering down the taxation proposals of the previous Government to suit the Opposition. To-day we find the Labour senators who made this charge against the Government proposing that this taxation measure should be watered down, and, professedly, in the interests of people who havenot asked for it. I shall not refer to the proposals for land value taxation, but I should like to say to my honorable friends who are so keen upon the adoption of that form of taxation that the last word on the subject from the present Government has not yet been heard. We have people in a much better position to pay this amusements tax than many people are prepared to pay an additional land tax. We have farmers in South Australia by the thousand who have had to' go to the State Government for several years for manure, seed, horseflesh, and other things to enable them to carry on their industry. 
That is so, and it will take many of them, under normal conditions, ten years to pay off the debt they have incurred. We always find that it is the persons furthest removed from the farming community who are most anxious that the farmer should be taxed. I am quite sure that people who patronize picture shows and sports of different kinds will be quite prepared to pay their share of taxation for the conduct of the war. Had it been possible I should like to have exempted from taxation persons attending picture shows in States where similar taxation has already been imposed. I recognise the difficulty in the way of that.. I know that if the Commonwealth does not impose this taxation the State Parliaments will do so at the earliest possible moment, and as the States are not responsible for the expenses of the war it is the duty of the Federal Government to see that no available means of taxation are overlooked. I should like to bring under the notice of the Minister for Works the fact that we exempt from income tax the income of a man who has gone to the front. I know of instances in small country towns in South Australia, and there may be similar instances in other States, where men who ran small picture shows have gone to the front. They have made the best arrangements they could for the conduct of their shows during their absence. Admittedly it is a fair thing that the income of these men should be exempt from taxation, and it is equally fair that their picture shows should be similarly exempted. In many cases these men have had to pay high rates of wages to those who are looking aftertheir interests during their absence, and in these circumstances they are entitled to special consideration in this matter. Many of them own shows in small country towns - shows which are open only one night each week, and out of which they make very little money indeed. I hope that this fact will not be lost sight of by the Minister. 
Apparently, the taxation proposed to be levied under this Bill is to be limited to the period of the war. It is true that the measure does not say so, nor does it say what entertainments are to be subjected to the tax. If the second reading of the Bill be agreed to, I shall move in Committee that the operation of the tax be limited to the period of the war. Personally, I am opposed to this form of taxation on several grounds. My chief objection is that the tax is one which will fall to a very large extent on those who are least able to bear it, and that it will yield a fair amount of revenue, thereby obviating the necessity for exploiting more legitimate fields of taxation. The same remarks hold good in regard to other sources from which the Commonwealth at present collects revenue. I should like to see the debate upon the Bill postponed until we have before us the Entertainments Tax Assessment Bill, in order that we may see the class of entertainment which it is proposed to tax. There is nothing in the measure which is now under consideration to prevent the taxation of tickets of admission to social gatherings, and indeed to almost any kind of entertainment. I am altogether opposed to this method of taxation. The mere fact that it may have been agreed to by a political party does not carry weight with me. 
Senatorde Largie was not present at that meeting. 
I am not prepared to supply information of that kind. The honorable senator has made a statement which has no justification whatever, and which conclusively proves that none of his allegations is' entitled to credence. 
If the honorable senator desires information as to what transpired in Caucus it is idle for him to apply to me. 
Whilst I have no objection to  Senator Newland  or  Senator de  Largie endeavouring to elicit as much information as possible, if they imagine that they are going to get it from me they are sadly mistaken. No reliance whatever can be placed on the statements of gentlemen who were not present at the Caucus meeting, and who, therefore, have no knowledge of what took place. But the question with which I am chiefly concerned is, "Is this a method of taxation which ought to be countenanced by this Parliament?" I have strongly objected on the floor of this chamber to a proposal to tax sixpenny tickets of admission to amusements, and there is some little satisfaction in knowing that the Government have now abandoned the idea of taxing tickets of a less value than1s. 
That, I find, is right. Of course, the proprietors of places of amusement will pass on this tax to their customers. All forms of taxation, with the exception of land value taxation, are passed on. 
There is one feature about this tax which, to my mind, is satisfactory. Under the Bill people will know exactly what they are paying to the Commonwealth for taxation purposes. It will be shown on a ticket that its price is1s., and that the additional charge of 2d. is the amount of the tax. 
I endeavoured to achieve that object some little time ago, but, unfortunately, my proposal was defeated. It would be a splendid thing, if, when purchasing a pair of boots, the buyer received an account showing the price of the boots,with the price of the duty added. A good deal of opposition has been manifested here this afternoon to the alternative scheme of taxation which I have suggested, and a strong plea has been made on behalf of the farmers. I looked round Warrnambool yesterday, and found that land-owners there would not permit me to use their land unless I paid them £3 or £4 an acre per annum by way of rental. 
I submit that the proper course for the' Senate to adopt is to inform the Government that this form of taxation does not meet with its approval ; that the value of the lands of this country, according to the Government Statistician, is £446,000,000, and that they should levy a tax upon that value for war purposes. If they chose to impose a tax of 6d. in the £1 on estates in excess of £5,000 unimproved value - and these represent about £186,000,000- they would derive from this source alone a revenue of £4,000,000 annually. That is the direction to which the attention of the Government should be invited. 
I understand that it is, approximately, £350,000. I hope this Bill, and all the other taxation proposals of the Government, will stand over, and that the Senate will insist upon their being held 'up until the Government bring in a measure to place additional taxation on the £186,000,000 worth of land held in estates over the £5,000 exemption. 
.- I rise more particularly to refute the statement generally made that we on this side of the chamber agreed to support a similar measure to this a month or two ago. I held myself free to oppose it from the first moment' it was mentioned. That statement can be verified by various members of this party. I have been opposed to this class of taxation from the time it was first mentioned, and do not want it to go forth that I have changed my opinions because of the condition of parties in the Senate. No one will question that the Commonwealth requires revenue, but there are other and more legitimate sources from which to raise this sum. The Bill fails to comply with the first canon of taxation, that of levying in proportion to the ability of the person to pay. The rich and the poor are taxed exactly alike if they choose to pay the same admission fee to an entertainment. We ought to levy taxation on some defined principle. The rich can even escape the tax altogether. It is the easiest thing possible for them to do so. They can have various forms of entertainment without charges for admission. They can engage private artists in music or elocution, and hold their entertainments in drawing rooms or halls. An ordinary working man cannot have his motor car, or play bowls, or engage in the thousand and one entertainments that the wealthy have, and those amusements cannot be taxed as the Government propose to tax this particular sort of show. 
It is often both entertaining and amusing, and some people would sooner listen to it than anything else. The idea has been advanced that  the tax will be paid by the proprietors of entertainments, but I never thought they would do so. 
Probably because it will reduce their takings. A thousand shows have been shut up in Great Britain since the tax was imposed there. 
Ihave seen the statement in print, and I am giving it for what it is worth. 
If that were the case, I do not think the proprietors running the entertainments would complain so bitterly as they are doing at present. The fact is that they see a strong probability of their takings, and therefore, their incomes, being reduced, and are complaining accordingly. I do not think the proprietors will bear the tax. They will pass it on. I do not apprehend the difficulty  Senator O'Keefe  predicted in collecting the odd pence. The Sydney Ferries Company finds no trouble in collecting the pennies there, and I presume if this tax is imposed people will take change with them and pay the extra pennies with their shillings. If the tax has to be paid by the proprietors, we shall be taxing their takings, and not their profits, and they will have some reason to complain. The whole proposal seems to be on the rule of thumb principle, and seems a miserable thing for a National Parliament to come down to.  Senator Stewart  referred to it as a " tiddly-winking " tax, which means something that ought to be beneath the National Parliament. While I disagree with the principle altogether, if the tax is going to be imposed at all, I would rather leave it to the States, because we ought not to take from them every source of taxation. 
Personally, I am opposed to that tax, and said so more than once in the Tasmanian Parliament. I am not a very frequent attendant at any of the classes of entertainment mentioned in the Bill. 
I think my honorable friend knows better than to ask that question. If he goes there, he goes to entertainments that I never patronize. A moment ago, when he was talking about what people saw for their money, I was wondering whether he went to the stadium himself to see whether the fight was a good or bad one. I am not of the fighting class, and do not go there at all. In the first instance the proposal was to tax down to 3d. tickets. It was next proposed to tax only down to 6d. To the extent that those small amounts have been eliminated, the Bill has been improved, but the principle of it is still wrong. Some say that the tax may be escaped by refraining from going to this class of amusement." If everybody does that, the Government will get no income from it. People could save themselves the expense of boots by going barefooted. I see a certain amount of education in various forms of amusement: Everyone is not able to travel', and at picture shows I have seen some very fine reproductions of scenes in various countries that I would never be able to visit. 
The pictures put on the screen are very different. 
I do not think they are all faked. I saw some that seemed as real as life. There is also the educational effect of good music, vocal, of instrumental, or of a fine piece of elocution. People who escape the tax by remaining away from entertainments lose a good deal in the way of education. The Government ought to exercise a supervisory control over various kinds of amusements, to prevent anything objectionable creeping in. Our amusements ought to be pure, elevating, and educational, and to that extent I should be in hearty accord with any movement for a supervising control by the Government. Three States are now levying the tax, and if the Commonwealth imposes an additional tax, the double banking will become a burden.  Senator Newland  said they were not complaining in. South Australia because the State put the tax on, but they will object if the Commonwealth puts another tax on ' top of it. 
I would not deny people every kind of amusement. To do that would reduce them to a state of melancholy, and possibly worse: 
I am not going to prevent people playing games which are good and healthy. I would not prevent them playing cricket and football now, although I seldom attend the matches. Games of that kind are healthful from a physical point of view. I am glad to notice that the tax will not be levied on. tickets of less than ls., because sixpenny tickets are exempt, and I do not presume that there will be charges of 9d. for admission to such places. During the debate reference was made to the varying charges of admission to the different places. In Sydney or Melbourne a picture show patron will get for 3d. what a patron of a country show will have to pay ls. for. In that respect the tax will bear rather more heavily on the poorer classes of entertainment in the country than on those in the cities. According to my view, it is beneath the dignity of the Federal Legislature to impose a tax of this kind, because there are other and more suitable means of taxation available to the Commonwealth, as indicated by Senators Grant, Ready, and others. The land is open for still further taxation. And, likewise, incomes may be further drawn upon. There are the big estates and the wealth of the community to be tapped, and there is a solid foundation for that form of taxation, because the principle has been well laid down by Adam Smith that taxation . should be levied in proportion to the ability of the person to pay it. Under this Bill that principle is not observed. 
Senior Senior. - I am not so sure that  Senator Grant  will agree with the senator in his quotation of Adam Smith. 
We ought to lay down a principle on which to levy our taxation, and not descend to this miserable kind of tax upon the working man, who, perhaps, may, once a week, desire to get a little relaxation from the humdrum course of his every-day life, while in many cases we allow the rich man to escape comparatively lightly. The man in receipt of £1,000 per annum is to-day paying less in the £1 than the man with £100 per year pays in all forms of taxation, and under this Bill it is proposed to allow the wealthy to escape still further. I would like to know if complimentary tickets issued for entertainments are to be taxed or not. 
But what about the hundreds of complimentary tickets issued in connexion with various forms of amusement ? Will they be taxed ? 
That is a question that I would like to have settled. The Bill says that the tax is to be levied on the charge for admission. If people pay nothing for admission, how will they be taxed ? 
-Evidently it has not been the intention to include .that class of ticket, and it seems to me that the people who get complimentary tickets should pay as much, if not more, than those who purchase tickets. In conclusion, I want to say that I am opposed to this tax, because I- believe it has been devised on a rule-of-thumb method, and that it has no general underlying principle. I have been opposed tq it from the first time that I heard it mentioned. 
I intend to vote for the Bill, because I consider that this form of taxation is just and equitable. I have always contended that the men who have gone to the front have a right to expect those who remain behind to bear the burden, of taxation, and this tax will reach some of the people who have not been touched by any other form of taxation; and, moreover, it will reach people who, I believe, will be perfectly willing to pay the tax so long as they know it is being levied for war purposes. I was opposed to the taxation on the lower-priced o tickets, but I am now satisfied with the measure. I was thinking of moving an  .amendment to exempt the shilling tickets, but when I remembered what a large number of people pay ls. admission to racecourses and other places, I came to the conclusion that they ought to be taxed. For that reason, I intend to vote for the Bill. I do not care very much what the proprietors of the shows have to say, because some of them have been loudest in their /condemnation of myself and others on the anti-conscription side of the recent campaign ; and that is another reason why I intend to vote for the Bill. 
I do. not propose to delay honorable senators for any length of time in my reply to the criticism of the Bill. The principle seems to have been accepted by an overwhelming majority, and when we get the Assessment Bill before us we will be able to determine what class of entertainments shall be' included, and what class exempted. I think the suggestion made by  Senator Millen,  that the Bill should not be taken beyond the report stage but retained here until the Assessment Bill has been dealt with, is one that is generally approved by all honorable senators. We are all anxious that legislators may be able to return to their homes, and be with their families for the Christmas season, and therefore I desire to be as brief as possible. Something has been said about this Bill being class legislation. I want to be candid, and I tell the Senate that in ordinary circumstances I would not be found voting for this measure. We have to remember, however, that these are not normal times; that we have to pay for the war; we have to win the war, and not lose it. There are no two sides to that question, whatever other differences we may have. Although Australia is a great distance away from the seat of conflict, she has, I think, responded better than any other people on the face .of the globe would have done. We have been taxed for the war, but compared with the taxation of other countries it has been light iu character, and, moreover, we have not had occasion to appreciate what war really means in our own country. The Bill proposes to tax tickets of ls. to tha extent of Id., and I believe those who claim we are taxing the poor are not doing justice to the people of Australia. At all events, I am of opinion that every man, woman, and child in Australia genuinely desires to participate in the effort to win this war; and this is one method by which they may do something. I take it that this is not the last we shall hear of taxation to be imposed because of the war - we all wish, of course, that it might be - and we do not want to exhaust all the possibilities of taxation, because nobody knows how long this great  world - conflict may last. 
We have adopted what we regard as a reasonable scheme, and I do not think that  Senator Ready  can claim that I have ever evaded my responsibilities in voting for what may be regarded as adequate taxation proposals for this country. It has been suggested that this is a class measure. I do not think it is. Let me point out that tickets up to ls. have been exempted from taxation, and that the man who pays ls. to go to a theatre will pay a tax of only Id,, whereas the frequenters of such places as the Flemington lawn, the other racecourses of the Commonwealth, and the Melbourne or Sydney cricket-grounds, will contribute the bulk of the revenue. At Randwick, for' instance, there are usually more people inside the grandstand enclosure at 10s. and 12s. 6d. than may be seen on the flat at .2s. 6d. 
I have been to Randwick on one or two occasions, but generally by invitation. From what I have said as to the incidence of this tax, it will be seen that if it is a class tax, it can only be regarded as such because the wealthy and those' who are comfortably placed will contribute more than any other class in the community. I hope thaBill will go through as it stands. We will be able to deal with the exemptions when considering the Assessment Bill. 
I move - 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until 11 o'clock to-morrow morning. 
I am moving this motion because the work in prospect for the Senate is not so well forward as the Government would like it to be. 
I do not know but the latest reports from the front, if I may refer to the other House in that sense, are that there is heavy firing, and that the scouts are in close contact. 
Does the honor able member think that his remarks are relevantto the motion ? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
.- I rise to direct the attention of the Leader of the Government to the question of finding employment for a large number of military officers who, at greatexpense to the Commonwealth were trained for active service. This morning's  Age  reports that thirty-five Victorians, who have been put through six months' training, and have gained their commissions in a system which, from my knowledge of it in another capacity, I can claim to be the most democratic in the world, are now out of employment. It is most unfair that these young men should be treated in this way after having devoted six months of their time to training, especially as in many cases they gave up lucrative positions to qualify themselves. It would pay the Commonwealth to send these young men to the front, if only to enable them to gain experience as emergency officers. Iam sure that there are dozens of young officers at the front towhom a month's spell would be a great advantage. From conversations which I have had with military men I can say that our military schools compare favorably with the best schools in any part of the British Empire, and in view of the training which these young men have received, it is up to the Government to send them to the front, or if it is not deemed advisable to send them as members of the Australian Forces, they should be given the opportunity of joining the British Forces, and thus get a chance of serving their country in the capacity for which they have been trained. 
I can quite understand the reason for the interjection by  Senator de  Largie, and in reply I tell him that I want Australian officers to lead Australian soldiers. To-day I received a circular to the effect thatone young officer had received only one day's notice that his services were no longer required. I want now to speak a word or two on behalf ofa very large number of senior officers - those men who during the war have been engaged in the training of our Forces in Australia, and who for over two years have sacrificed themselves in order that theymight carry out this important work. Surely it would pay the Commonwealth Government to give these senior officers a chance of gaining that experience of actual warfare which their whole life's training entitles them to receive. Among these men are to be found majors, lieutenant-colonels, and other men of the higher ranks who have been standing back in order to train Australian soldiers, and because they felt it was their duty to remain here for that purpose. 
Yes. If I thought that when this conflict was over there would be no more war, I would not make the suggestion, but I do not expect that this will be the last war, and I maintain, therefore, that it, would beto the great" advantage of Australia that these men who have helped to mould our Forces, whose efficiency at the front is a tribute to their training, should now have an opportunity of gaining actual experience themselves. I know from my connexion with the Defence Department that there are a large number of these patriotic men who would like this chance, and I think it is extremely hard that capable and willing officers are not getting the opportunity of serving their country. If they do not go, it is probable that when the war is over, and our other officers return, these men will be cast aside because they will not then have the privilege of wearing the ribbon indicating thatthey have seen active service, and have gained actual experience on the battle-field. It will be to the advantage of the Commonwealth to have a large number of highly  trained -and efficient officers in Australia after the war is over, and, therefore, the senior  'Officers  to whom I refer should -have that opportunity. 
.- I ;find myself in considerable agreement -with  Senator Gardiner  in the matter which he has brought before the Senate. I might say, however, that I  i  confess to a feeling of surprise that the honorable senator, who was foi- over eighteen months in the position of Assistant Minister for Defence should -only now seek to give 'expression to his views regarding a grievance which has been taking shape during that period. It is reasonable that a number of competent and experienced- men should be retained in Australia "for the important work of training our Expeditionary Forces, but during the past two years some of the men under training should have been brought on as understudies, so that in time the senior officers could be released for the front. I hop© now that  Senator Gardiner  is freed from the trammels of office he will continue to insist  On  fair consideration being given to the claims of- these men. 
The young officers referred to by  Senator Gardiner  have a legitimate claim upon the consideration of the Government. In- the first place, we have 'to remember that by gaining their commissions they lost their chance, so it now appears, of going 'to the front as noncommissioned officers, while those who failed in the 'competition have gone, to the1 front as -non-commissioned officers, and thus may obtain their commissions in the field. The other men, however, because they succeeded in securing commissions, are now turned adrift. That sort of treatment does not appeal to anybody. I direct attention to the fact that these men were only given their commissions a few days before their services were dispensed with. The Department" ought to have known then '-what  was  happening, and ought to have been in a position to say to these men, " Will -you take your commission -and 'your discharge,,  or  will  you  waive your commission and remain  in 'the Forces ?" Brit, having gained their commissions, .the 'men -were then told that -the Department had -no room for them, and, as the regulations -stand to-day, I am of opinion it is not' possible 'to reinstate these men 'in the Australian Imperial Force un less they -again. goin .as privates. If '.that view is correct, the 'hardship inflicted upon the men is all the more 'severe. ' 
-Yes. and, unless I am in error, the regulations -provide that the only method by which they may re-  enter the Forces is by joining as privates. This is a substantial grievance, and entitles .the men to the most favorable consideration at the hands of the Government. It seems to me, however, that perhaps there is a way out of the difficulty.' It is quite clear that if . we have not the men, there must be a surplusage of officers, but, judging from the communication which came from the Imperial authorities some time ago, there are still ample opportunities for young officers in the British Forces, because some time ago the Imperial authorities offered to give commissions to any young fellow of eighteen years of age who" -was sent Home with credentials, but not necessarily military knowledge, from the Defence Department of the Commonwealth. All that was required was that the young man » should be , f.ully accredited by the Commonwealth Government as 'to character, physical fitness, and,' of course, -they had to -satisfy the -examiners in the Mother Country. It seems to -me that as -these young men have -really 'demonstrated their fitness for the positions the Government .should communicate with the Imperial authorities, and ask them if they are still in -need of junior officers. It -would not be too much then for the Government to take into consideration-the question of providing these 'young officers with their passages to Great Britain, in order, that théy may be able to take advantage of 'the opportunities there afforded. The Government -would pay their passages Home if they went as officers of the Australian Forces. If there is no opportunity there now, 'the Government must still "recollect 'that in 'paying the same   passage money, they would enable these men to go and fight for Australia. . Although the men would undoubtedly prefer to be attached to an Australian regiment, I venture to say that they would sooner be -attached to a British regiment than to none -at -all, and as circumstances would permit they' could be gradually seconded from the British -Army and. attached' to the 
I rise to ask' the Minister for- Works whether, in his reply, he will intimate that' the Government will endeavour  to get certain information- he has promised before we adjourn, in a day or so, over the Christmas holidays: I refer to the information sought in the question which T put on the notice-paper, over a week ago, and which, at the Minister's request, I postponed four times, only to receive to-day the reply that. an inquiry is being made from the New South Wales Government'. My question was - 
In view of the possibility that the coal-mine owners of Australia will increase the price of coal to the consumers of Australia, will the Government obtain and lay on the table of the Senate a statement showing the profits, if any, of the coal-mining companies of Australia for the last two years, giving the profit of each company separately?  
At the time it appeared that Judge Edmunds- was- going to be asked to allow the coal-mine owners to increase- the price, and I put the question in that way, "In view of the probability." It had been freely stated that the coal-mine owners were going- to ask for permission to increase the price, of coal to meet the situation brought about by. the Judge's decision giving the men an eighthours day from bank to bank. The companies, we know, declared that it would cost them more money to get the coal' and, of course, they would have to receive some increase in the price to make-up for -the loss. 
Yes. When the Prime Minister referred the case to the Judge for  arbitration, I' asked - and I thought it was. a reasonable thing to ask - that the Government, should obtain these particulars-, from the coal-mining companies for the last two years, because there is a. strong, feeling- in the minds of Australian, people that  it. should, not be necessary for the companies to increase the price of coal to the consumer to meet the; increased, cost, . if any, to be brought about .by, the Judge's decision. The. people would bo - in a better- position' to give a fair and impartial judgment on- that question if- they knew what profits, if: any, had . been made by the companies- during the last- two years. It seemed to me rather peculiar that, after having postponed my question-four times, I should get the reply that the Government were making inquiries of the Government of New South Wales. It may be that because of the position, which has been created here within the last week or two, the Government have only just discovered that they would have to obtain the information from the State Government. 
There ' is something in the suggestion of  Senator Millen.  The question was asked, first, without notice, and when I was asked" to give notice I' went to the table and drew up. a notice hurriedly. I take it that the Government', in answering the question, would be quite at liberty to give the additional particulars. I have been very patient. I have postponed the .question, at the Minister's request, from day to day, for over a week, and I do not think that there ought. to be much difficulty about getting, the information be-v fore we rise for the Christmas holidays. 
I. wish to address- you, sir,, very briefly in respect to two matters, one of which has been brought, before the Senate- by  Senator Gardiner.  I happen 'to know a little about' the termination of' the commissioned officers' term of engagement, because I was one of two parliamentarians, the other being  Mr. Massy  Greene, who introduced a deputation from the officers to the Assistant Minister for Defence this afternoon. I do not lightly, at any time, attempt to criticise the details, of military administration, for I have a chronic dislike to war- being conducted by a debating society, such as Parliament, in one sense,, is. But. I must confess that I am entirely in. sympathy with Senators Gardiner, and Millen in reference to this matter. It appears- that, no. fewer, than thirty-five officers have qualified at Duntroon Military College, after having inconvenienced themselves greatly by relinquishing businesses in civil life, many of them being of a profitable character, and by throwing up civil careers of great promise. These men went to the Military College, and, at a cost of some thousands of pounds to the Commonwealth, acquitted themselves well at the examinations, and became commissioned officers. I understand that at one day's notice their term of service has been terminated; I believe that that is the correct military term to use, as officers are not discharged. This seems to me to be a singular state of affairs. We know that, owing to  circumstances over which the Commonwealth Government .has had no control, we are not immediately in possession of sufficient men to send to the front. On the- otherhand, is it to be assumed that the new recruiting campaign is to be utterly unfruitful? Surely not! Surely it is unwise at this juncture to practically discharge these officers - using the ordinary phrase - and to send them right back to civil life! Is not this a lavish and spendthrift waste of good military material ? I happen to know that these officers are so anxious to proceed to the front that they would enter the British Service, the Italian Service, the Russian Army, the French Foreign Legion - in fact, do anything - to get to the front, and  they purpose in the last resort to even go as private soldiers. But is it good policy, good military practice, on the part of our authorities to train men - men of a great deal more than ordinary mental calibre - make officers of them at a cost of. thousands of pounds collectively, and then turn them out to enlist as privates in the Expeditionary Forces? Is Australian military organisation so far advanced that we can afford that sort of thing ? Surely not ! I, of course, recognise that in some respects the officers may be like the officers of King Cole's Army., In that Army there were no privates. That may be the position so far as Australia itself is concerned at the present moment, but I hope that the recruiting campaign - although I dislike the system under which it is to be inaugurated - will prove fruitful enough to enable us to .find something to do for these officers on Australian soil in the way of training the raw levies which we are going to hastily send to the front to rein- force men of our nationality who are fighting on the Western front. As these men have to be hastily levied, surely they want as much instruction as commissioned officers and non-commissioned officers can give them ! I ask the military administration to seriously consider whether Australia is in a position to waste, I might say, thirty odd commissioned officers, men who have been given  Hi's  Majesty's commission, by compelling them to go abroad, at their own expense, to enter into an Ally's Army, or to enlist as privates, and be ordinary food for cannon ? I venture to say that proper reflection will assure the Minister for Defence and his expert advisers that that is a very bad kind of policy to pursue. I hope that something will be done to retain to the Commonwealth the services of these gentlemen, who are not only officers, but really strong patriots; men who are anxious to give their services in a military capacity - to, preferably, Australia's Army, and if not to her Army, at least to an Ally's Army. I hope that something will be done in the matter. I am never in the habit of repudiating anything being done in which I believe. After perusing  Hansard  - of course, I was correctly reported - I came to the conclusion that an interjection or two of mine, in reply to some remarks which  Senator O'Keefe  was making about prosecutions' at Launceston consequent on the late referendum poll, might be taken to mean that I disapproved of the prosecutions. I do nothing of the sort. I entirely agree with them, and I applaud the civil and police authorities who instituted them under an Act placed on the statute-book, as I understand, at the instance of the Honorable King O'Malley. when he was a leading and shining Labour light. I simply said that I was personally not responsible for the prosecutions, nor was the Honorable Joseph Cook. What I want to bo clearly understood is that I entirely approve of the fact that- the Mayor of Launceston, owing to disorder at. public meetings, owing to the fact that the Honorable Joseph Cook and Father O'Donnell, and others were not properly heard, because of the clamour at their meetings, took the precaution to placard the town with notices, and put' advertisements in the newspapers, to the effect that if disorder ensued at any more public meetings in the city those responsible would be prosecuted under the Act, which was placed on the Commonwealth statute-book at the instance of the Honorable King O'Malley. Those who addressed the meetings had nothing to do with the prosecutions. If I mistake not, the prosecutions were instituted by Superintendent Hedberg, head of the police at Launceston - a man whose political opinions are not known to anybody, and whose ribs were nearly kicked in- at the Honorable Joseph Cook's meeting, because he assisted his subordinate officers to drag some unruly members of the audience out. I believe that he instituted the prosecutions, and more power to him. I approve of them. Some of the persons who were prosecuted had successively  disturbed several meetings, and I believe that the reward of the drastic and proper action of the police and municipal authorities will be reaped by public speakers in the future. 
During the last two or three weeks I have brought before the Senate the matter of the report submitted by the Judge who was appointed as a Commissioner to inquire into the charges laid by  Mr. D.  L. Gilchrist against officers employed on the construction of the transcontinental railway. When I was speaking on the subject I purposely refrained from reading a considerable portion of the report, because the Minister had informed me that the matter had been referred to the AttorneyGeneral's Department, and that as yet no decision had been come to. I hope that the Minister for Works will, before we meet to-morrow, endeavour to obtain from the Attorney-General's Department, a statement as to the action they propose to recommend the Government to take in this case. I shall repeat my question on the subject when we meet again. 
In regard to the matter referred to by  Senator Gardiner,  I have to say, at the outset, that I deplore the fact that there should bo so  many men of military talent in our midst who cannot, at the present time, be satisfactorily placed.  Senator Gardiner  and  Senator Bakhap,  who spoke in the same strain, should recall the position at the opening of the war, and they will realize that the situation with which we are now faced is due largely to events which preceded it. In the earlier stages, instead. of having soldiers qualified for the higher command, the trouble was to obtain* men sufficiently skilled in the* military art to teach those who enlisted in our Army. 
Much energy was devoted then to /induce young men to qualify for leading positions,especially on the Instructional Staff. The result of this, in its turn, was to supply us not only with an Instructional Staff sufficient to meet immediate requirements, but, in the light of our present experience, an over-supply of men qualified for commissions, which gives rise to the complaint made to:day. Speaking frankly, I do not know how this difficulty is to be overcome. 
I noticed that  Senator Millen  said that the Government are responsible for the position in which these men find themselves to-day. I do not think that statement can be substantiated: Recently, in the north of France, where our men are, we had instances of. men holding the rank of sergeant-major being suddenly promoted on the field to be lieutenant-colonel, far beyond any dream of sudden promotion they had ever had. Following that development of events on the field of battle, we have in' Australia an overplus. of men qualified for commissioned rank. Really events have gone the round of the circle with kaleidoscopic swiftness, one event producing another which has been complained of.  
These men are not dismissed. 
The honorable senator will recognise that while we have officers qualified in every respect to lead men, the trouble is that we have no men for them to lead. 
It is not the policy of the Government to waste good material. I may, perhaps, be speaking irresponsibly, because I- am not connected with the Defence Department, but I can assure, honorable senators that it is not, and never will be, the policy of the Government to turn aside, as  Senator Millen  suggested, these qualified men who are willing to go to the front, even though they should have to go as private' soldiers. 
It would. We heard the statement made by  Senator Millen,  and no doubt it is a fact, that the Imperial Government are asking for qualifiedyoung men, or menable to qualify quickly, for commissions. But we have side by side with that statement the complaint made here within the last few days that Australian officers'are being turned down at the front in favour of Imperial officers. 
SenatorMillen.  -  The answer the honorable senator gave in connexion with that matter to-day is that those were staff appointments. The men referred to tonight are junior officers, and would probably be. leaders of sections. 
That is so. Broadlyspeaking, the position seems to be that we have a surplus of brilliant young men who suddenly regardedthe army as a profession to which they could devote their energy forthe benefit of the country, and when they have qualified themselves as leaders, we discover that we have no soldiers for them to lead. 'We did expect to get all the men we required by the voluntary system, and since it has failed to supply the men, I find it difficult to say to whom the fault is due for the position in which these men who have qualified as officers find themselves. It is not due to the Government, because 'we endeavoured to fill the ranks, though our methods may have been disputed. 
I shall, of course, with pleasure direct attention to the suggestion made by  Senator Gardiner  and supported by Senators Bakhap andMillen, and see what can possibly be done to satisfy thelaudable desires of these young men. I can judge what they are from my knowledge of half-a-dozen of them in Western Australia, who have gone so  far  as to say,"I amthinking of disgracing myself by deserting my regiment in order to get to the front." I want todisabuse the minds ofhonorable senatorswho appear to thinkthat the fault for the position of which they complain rests with the Government. It does not rest with, the Government. I promise to bring the matter referredto urgently before the attention of my colleagues  in  order, if possible, to discover a way to enablethese young men to play the manly part which they have, in the mostpraiseworthy fashion , shown their desire to pl ay .  Senator Turley  referred to the ever-green Gilchrist case, but I do not know that I can give him any moreinformation than I havealready given onthe subject. 
The honorable senator, as an old parliamentarian, will recognise that we are not living in " the piping times of peace." 
In addition to grappling with the weighty problems arising out ofthe war, we have, as I mentioned yesterday, to deal with an infinite variety of problems altogether dissociated from the war. I know that  Senator Turley  is never so unfair as to unduly press a matter in which he is interested, when he knows that questions offar greater importance demand attention. I promise toplace the matter to which he has referred before my colleagues with a view to obtaining the latest information as to what the Government propose to do in the Gilchrist case.Senator Bakhap referred to something which was done under an Act for which  Mr. King  O'Malley was responsible, but he will not expect me to reply to the remarks he made.Senator O'Keefe asked whether the Government would secure the balance sheets of the coal mining companies of Australia, for the purpose, Isuppose, of public information. The honorable senator might discover from the financial journals the dividends declared by the companies, andsome idea as to their financial position,but I shall try,inconsultationwith mycolleagues,whetherit is possible tosecure amore up-to-date statementofthefinancial standingof these companies  inNew  South Walesand Queensland. 
Question resolved in affirmative. 
In view of the fact that the Prime Minister's manifesto to the Anzacs has been laid on the table of the Senate, have the Government any objection to the newspapers printing it if they so desire? I understand that the newspapers have been refused the right ' to publish the manifesto. 
I ask the honorable senator to give notice of a question for tomorrow. 
Well, for a later hour of the day. 
Is the Leader of the Government here yet in a position to answer the question I forecasted last Thursday evening as to whether it was. the intention of the Government to re-enact the regulation in connexion with the censorship which we disallowed a couple of weeks ago ? 
The honorable senator asked a question under two headings. 
What he has referred to now relates to one portion of his question. His first question was - 
Is it the intention of the Government, as stated in the  Herald,  on the 8th inst., to re-enact Statutory Rule No. 204, which was recently disallowed by the Senate? 
The answer to that question is " The matter is being considered." 
I want to ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence a question in reference to the statement in to-day's newspaper, that it is the intention . of the military authorities to create or appoint a permanent guard. Is it intended to create a new permanent military unit outside the Kitchener scheme, or is it to be permanent only in the sense of being for the time of the war ? 
Will the honorable senator give notice of the question? 
In moving - 
That this Bill be now read a second time, 
I should perhaps begin with an explanation as to its necessity. It marks a new departure in legislation in this Parliament. So far as the working out of democratic rule in this country is concerned, . we feel that we are for the first time abreast of a condition of things which requires action. If we do not take action the responsibility will rest upon those who are charged with controlling the affairs of this country. 
I do not pretend that I could, even if I tried, work up any enthusiasm for this Bill, in the way that the Minister for Works has done. In my opinion, it is scarcely worth the time that we are asked to devote to its consideration. In saying that, I hardly think it necessary to assume that honorable senators have as strong a loathing of the crimes which are recited in the measure as it is possible for civilized beings to have. There cart be no sympathy with such crimes. But when  Senator Lynch  urged that these crimes were of so serious a nature that we could not afford to deal tenderly with them, I could not refrain from interjecting that so severely do the Government propose to deal with them that under this Bill they contemplate imposing a punishment of six months' imprisonment. 
.- Like the Leader of the Opposition, I have no desire to take the. Bill seriously. The Minister introducing it spoke in a strain of such deadly earnest that I really began to think, while not looking at the Bill, that the Government were in earnest. If the evils arising from the organization to which he referred are so great, surely the Government could have introduced a Bill that would have been operative over a 'longer period than " the war and six months thereafter, but no longer." If evils which are pointed to with so much enthusiasm and earnestness are such a grave menace to our existing society, why are they a menace only during the' term of the war and for six months thereafter? 
Honorable senators, by the remarks they have made, would give the impression that they consider that the Industrial Workers of the World is a very old association. I want to say that as an association it dates back only to the year 1905. It arose out of a combination of two large federations of labour in the eastern and western States of America. After this combination was achieved, it was felt that there was a class in the unions that it did not reach, and in January, 1905, the organization now known as the Industrial Workers of the World issued a manifesto that was distributed throughout the United States of America.It was signed by twenty-seven individuals, and it called upon the unattached industrialists to form themselves into a large union. They met in the' summer of 1905, and formed the basis of the present Industrial Workers of the World organization.. It included not only the unattached unions, but several others also. Within the organization there we're included those who believed in political action, those who believed in economic action through the political machinery, and the third group comprising those who believed only in direct action. When the balloting took place for the election of  president, chairman,  and executive of the organization it was found that all the officers elected were persons who disbelieved in political action, and believed only in direct action. As a result of this, the organization, which at the close of the first year numbered 100,000 members in the "United States of America, before the close of the second year had dwindled down to a mere handful of leaders. I mention the date of the establishment of the organization because I desire to  show that the case referred to by  Senator Gardiner  was antecedent to the establishment of the Industrial Workers of the World. I wish to make it clear that I know of the case the honorable senator cited, and can show that the Industrial Workers of the World, as an organization, is of more recent origin. 
I am convinced that this Bill is nothing more than a piece of bluff. 

 Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.80 p.m. 

I would not have spoken upon this measure but for the vehement remarks made by  Senator Mullan,  and what I might regard as his almost immoral attitude with regard to this matter. He used a peculiar and superficial argument when he asked if a man who belonged to the Liberal party committed a murder, would the Liberal party be held responsible?  Undoubtedly the Liberal party would not be responsible, but if we found that members of the Liberal party were continually committing crimes of a special character, that they foregathered at clubs or meeting-houses that were supposed to be occupied by members of a particular party, the Government- and the people of the country would have every right to assume that that party was a particularly dangerous .body, and should be legislated against. We have no grounds for suspicion that our friends of the Labour party, for instance, are  per se  going to do anything contrary to the principles of law and order upon which society is essentially based. We must remember 'that this organization of the Industrial Workers of the World has its head-quarters in Chicago, and there are very few members of the Senate who are so young as not to remember the doings of the Chicago anarchists, whose propaganda was identical with the propaganda of the Industrial Workers of the World, and who shot down policemen just as an inoffensive policeman was shot down in New South Wales. I do not know what is wrong with the people. ^ A great number of Australians, it seems to me, have a temperament which is most inimical in its manifestations to the best interests and future prospects of the nation. Is there a great outburst of public feeling; is there any great- outburst of feeling on the part of politicians even; is there any large outburst of regret because of the fate of the policeman ? Undoubtedly we regret in a sub-conscious sort of way his death, but we do not find people organizing subscriptions, nor the public declaring as an organized body their regret at the death of the man. But we find in some quarters a most pernicious intention to show sympathy to those who have actually cut off an unfortunate man * in .the prime of his life, and in the execution of his official duty. We want our moral atmosphere cleared. I have sympathy with the innocent relatives of wrong-doers. The other day I read in the Sydney  Bulletin  a very pathetic article descriptive of this particular trial in New South Wales, and the feelings and emotions of reasoning men were played on to a very great extent. We were told of the painful position of the wives and the children of the prisoners, and no man who is a man cannot but regret that the wives and the children of such criminals have to suffer punishment. But that applies to every wrong-doer. If we allowed our feelings to carry us away, justice would never be administered. I reserve most of my sympathy, not for the wives and the children of the wrong-doers, although I have some sympathy with them if they are innocent, as they probably are; but for the wife and the children of the unfortunate policeman who was shot down by villainous murderers while he was probably performing some official duty at his desk. That is the quarter to which I extend my sympathy. Until the people of Australia clear their heads a little, and assist in clearing the moral atmosphere we shall find a great deal of misdirected sympathy which is almost as dangerous as the overt act of crime. 
.- I shall not detain the Senate very long in dealing with this Bill. When speaking this morning  Senator Millen  claimed that unionists like myself should condemn, the action of certain men who assaulted the worker in the Small Arms Factory who was doing the best he could at the machine he controlled. It is in connexion with that statement that I have risen to speak on the Bill. So far as the measure itself- is concerned, it is not worth half-an-hour's bother. I do not believe that it will extinguish the organization I desire to see extinguished, which  has been an opponent of mine since I have known it, and which has continuously opposed the principles of craft unionism to which I subscribe. I have no sympathy with it, and I have stated that when the members of that organization get in, it is time for me to get out. I  assume that I am one of the unionists who, according to  Senator Millen,  should condemn the action to which he referred. I have been a unionist in Sydney for forty years, and, perhaps, have witnessed more of the progress of unionism in the States than has any other honorable member of the Senate. I know the advantages which the community has derived from the efforts pf unionists, and I am willing at all times to condemn the intimidation of any man. I should like, however, to remind  Senator Millen  that there is under the common law a means of obtaining justice open to the man to whom he referred. I can scarcely believe that the secretary of a union assaulted this man, because I find it difficult to believe  that any man would be such a coward as to permit himself to be assaulted twice without having recourse to the law to punish , those who assaulted him. I can mention a case in point. The secretary of the Typographical Society in Sydney expelled a man from a room who had been expelled from the union. This man sued the union in the Court, and got a verdict for £500. The union appealed, but the High Court upheld the decision. I say that the man who is said to have been assaulted in the Small Arms Factory has open to him the same means of redress that was open to the man who was assaulted by the secretary of the Typographical Society. There is a remedy for action of the kind to which  Senator Millen  referred, if those who suffer from it care to avail themselves of that remedy. T wish to bring under the notice of the Senate the fact that under clause 5 it is clear that the Bill deals only with the members of an unlawful association. If the members of such an association disband and call themselves by another name, this Bill will not affect them. It will not, for instance, deal with the. I.W.W. man who is a member of the Wharf Labourers Union or the Seamen's Union. It deals with them only while they are members of an unlawful association. I say that it should deal with all alike who are guilty of the offences against which the measure is aimed, including those indivi duals who have the temerity to interfere with the distribution of foodstuffs of the country in time of war. I direct attention to another anomaly in clause 6 of the  Bill, which provides that - 
Any person, not being a natural-born British subject, born in Australia, who is convicted of an. offence, under either of the last two preceding sections, shall be liable, in addition to the punishment imposed upon him for the offence, and either during or upon the expiration of his term of imprisonment, to be deported from the Commonwealth, pursuant to any order o:i the Attorney-General. 
What are the Government going to do with those, who commit these offences and who are natural-born British subjects? These men get into the unions, and are really the cause of all the trouble. I do not believe that there are more than halfadozen Americans in the Industrial Workers of the World here. The men who cause the trouble are British born and British subjects who are members of that organization. It is not the Australianborn members, or those who have lived in Australia for a number of years, that cause trouble, but chiefly British subjects who have been in the country for only a few years. Punishment under this Bill should be meted out to them in just the same way as to an American. I shall vote for the Bill, because it will do no harm and will do no good. What it is here for I am sure I do not know. Some of my honorable friends say that it has been introduced to trap the Labour party. But I believe that it is here because the great metropolitan journals of Australia have called upon the Government before they retired to do something to deal with the Industrial Workers of the World.. They have done something which is nothing. 
Perhaps I should not have risen to speak upon this Bill but for the fact that some honorable senators have said that although the Bill is of no use, they intend to vote for it. I have had some little experience in the Labour movement, and some which  Senator McDougall  has not had. I have had to deal with the migratory people who travel from one part of the globe to another. It is amongst these men that we find our difficulty. I am a trade unionist of many years, but I have been an active official of a trade union organization since 1884. I have been in every Inter-State strike with which that organization Has been concerned that has taken place so far in Australia. I have taken ah the responsibility attaching to the position I have occupied. 
Nobody, I am sure, will utter a word of complaint against the honorable senator who has just resumed hig seat as a trade unionist. For many years he has been one Of a powerful Labour organization's most trusted officials. ' But he knows perfectly well that this Bill was bound to create uneasiness in unionistic circles, for the simple reason that it is not many years ago, when those who took a foremost part in endeavouring to secure an improvement in industrial conditions were accused of crimes which they never committed - crimes of which they were, nevertheless, convicted, and for which they served terms of imprisonment. I know that there is an impression abroad that, if it was possible to secure convictions of this character twenty-five years ago, it ought to be , equally possible to. obtain them under the law as it exists today. But I have been informed, as the result of inquiry, that there is no legislation which would enable a man who " advocates or encourages, or incites or instigates to, the taking or endangering of human life, or the destruction or injury of property." to be punished. I well remember - as you, sir, will - the year 1891, when there was a big industrial strike throughout the pastoral districts of Australia. On that occasion quite a number of members of the Shearers Union were arrested and charged with various crimes. Some of them were convicted,, and served terms of imprisonment. Amongst them were some of the most honorable men one could find. They were trusted throughout the entire country. As an evidence of this, I may mention that, at the time of which I speak, the union funds were exhausted, and the men were unable to purchase the necessaries of life. But, despite these facts, those who had the means of providing for their needs unhesitatingly did so. The storekeepers gave them credit to the extent of thousands of pounds by supplying them with provisions and stock; and I am proud" to say that, after the lapse of twelve or eighteen months, there was not a pennypiece owing to any of these storekeepers. This, sir, conclusively proves that they were honorable men. Their leaders were out to alter the conditions which existed, but they were not out to destroy property, although it was frequently stated that they were. I well remember information being transmitted to Brisbane to the effect that some of the shearers were shooting indiscriminately at buildings in which there were a number of people whose lives were thus endangered. This accusation, like a good many others, subsequently proved to be unfounded. News was also received that the unionists had poisoned a tank of water. The city man doubtless associated that piece of intelligence with the poisoning of a tank of water containing perhaps 1,000 gallons, but those who know the back-blocks knew that it referred to an underground tank, which would hold thousands upon thousands of gallons. When this startling bit of news came to hand, a number of us waited upon the Central Office and asked that the police should substantiate the charge by forwarding a sample df the water for analysis. That water, upon being analyzed, was found to contain enough strychnine to prove fatal to any person who drank only a  wineglassful  of it. But further inquiries revealed that the charge was a put-up job, because it would have taken no less than 10 tons of strychnine to have impregnated the water in the tank to the extent that the water in the bottle had been impregnated. Consequently, the accusation had been made merely for the purpose of- influencing public, opinion. What induced me to believe that there was power under the common law to deal with offences such as are mentioned in this Bill was the recent trial and conviction of certain members of the Industrie! Workers of the World in Western Australia. The charge against these men was " That they had conspired with certain persons in Broken Hill and Sydney to carry into execution an enterprise for raising discontent and disaffection, and promoting ill-will and enmity between different classes of subjects of the King." That is a charge which could be entered anywhere. These men were convicted, and sentenced to two years' imprisonment. 
In reply to the remarks made by  Senator Shannon,  I want to point out that it is not so easy, in these days of trade unionism, to take exception to the political views of any particular member, and, for that reason, there is a great deal of difficulty in keeping men who subscribe to Industrial Workers of the World views out of our organizations. But certain precautions may be taken to keep the Labour movement clean, and, so far as possible, that is done. While we may admit some of these men as members, there is no reason why they should be allowed .to take a prominent part in the management of a union or exert any influence upon its policy. To-day I instanced the case of a well-known I.W.W. man, who may be heard at a Yarra bank meeting almost any Sunday. Hitherto I regarded his sentiments as so much twaddle, and until recently I never dreamed there was any force behind them. I stated, by interjection while one honorable senator was speaking, that that particular member of the Industrial Workers of the World had been prominent in endeavouring to drive "the Prime Minister out of the Waterside Workers Federation,, an organization which he had practically built up. 
I had no intention of speaking to this measure, because I understood that it was the unanimous desire to conclude the business as soon as possible, but from the fact that  Senator de  Largie, the Government Whip, has taken some time to speak on the question - and he was quite within his rights - I take it that the Government are not in a great hurry. 
I shall not take up much time in replying to the debate. I wish to say that I appreciate the way in which the Bill has been received by the Senate. We have been told by some honorable senators that the measure overshoots the mark, and by others that it falls far short of the mark. It would ap-  pear, therefore, that it must about hit the bull's-eye.  Senator McDougall  supports the Bill because he thinks it can do neither good nor harm; whilst  Senator O'Keefe  has just said that he supports it because it will root out the disease. 
Seeing that this measure is intended to suppress crime, I should like to know why it is to be limited to the period of the war, and six months thereafter? 
.- This Bill has its origin in the defence powers of the Commonwealth, and, as the honorable senator will observe, it is mainly intended to deal with offences which are likely to be committed during the currency of the war. We believe that on the termination of the war the necessity for such a Bill will largely disappear. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 3 and 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5 - 
Whoever, being a member of an unlawful association, advocates or encourages, or incites or instigates to, any action intended or calculated to prevent or hinder the production, manufacture, or transport, for purposes connected with the war, of troops, arms, munitions, or warlike- material, including foodstuffs, shall be guilty of an offence....... 
I wish to know whether the inciting to, or encouragement of, the acts set out in this clause will be limited strictly to members of an unlawful association. 
The clause in its literal sense applies only to members of unlawful associations. The presumption is that only such persons will be guilty of these crimes, and if there are men guilty of them who do not belong to such associations, they can be dealt with under the ordinary law. 
The very fact that a person who is a member of an unlawful association is directly indicated as being liable to six months' imprisonment if guilty of any of these acts conveys the idea that any person' who is not a member of an association is not liable to imprisonment if he does any of those acts, and cannot be prosecuted under the scope of this Bill. 
The Bill is quite comprehensive enough in its scope, and will pretty well meet the case as I see it. At the same time, if honorable senators opposite feel that it is not sufficiently comprehensive, and that individual criminals may escape, I am prepared to help them to draw the net evencloser. 
The. point raised by  Senator Mullan  is very strong, sound, and valid. Clause 4, which we have just passed, reads - 
Whoever advocates or encourages, or incites or instigates to the taking or endangering of human life, or the destruction or injuring of property shall be guilty of an offence. 
We might well bring clause 5 into conformity with clause 4 by striking out the words, " being a member of an unlawful association." It would then read - 
Whoever advocates or encourages, or incites or instigates to any action intended or calculated to prevent or hinder the production, manufacture, or transport for purposes con nected with the war, of troops, arms, munitions, or warlike material, including foodstuffs, shall be guilty of an offence. 
If  Senator Mullan  moves that amendment I will support him. 
.- I follow  Senator Mullan  in desiring to get an expression of opinion from the Government with regard to this clause, because if we pass it as it stands, it may be argued, after Parliament is closed, that the Government, by a regulation, may bring in all those organizations and unions which are now left out of the Bill The Government might then be able to say that it was the intention of Parliament, under this clause, to include them.  Senator Mullan  and I want to know if this is in the minds of the Government, and whether they propose to make this clause, by regulation, do what perhaps they lack the courage to ask Parliament to sanction. I am en couraged in this view by an offer made by  Senator do  Largie - the " off-sider " to the Government - who invited me to move an amendment. If he can guarantee that the Government will accept the amendment, I will be prepared to draft it, but I do not propose to harass the Government by drafting amendments which may be unacceptable to them. I am glad  Senator Keating  has moved his amendment, because, when the vote is taken on it, we shall be ableto indicate to the Government that we do not want any regulations of that kind framed during the time that Parliament is not sitting. 
 I wish to point out to  Senator Gardiner  that while there is certainly power under the War Precautions Act to issue regulations, any regulations framed under this Bill will be of the same kind and nature as regulations issued ordinarily under any other Bill that passes this Chamber. I would, therefore, suggest that the honorable senator might very fittingly leave well alone. This is a measure to deal with unlawful associations, and members thereof. That  is the objective, and I think the amendment moved by  Senator Keating  will seriously affect its purpose. The presumption is that all the offences intended to be dealt with by the Bill are hatched and conceived in a particular way, and, having discovered their source, we propose to reach them in this Bill, so that there will be little need to deal with persons outside of an organization. I appeal to honorable senators that the Bill clearly accomplishes the work it set out to do, and I hope the amendment will not be carried, because we do not know where it will land us. In clause 5 we reach the objective of- the Bill, namely, the members of unlawful associations. 
It appears to me that if the amendment moved by  Senator Keating  is agreed to, it will unduly widen the scope of the Bill, and make it a very comprehensive measure, for it will then not only deal with unlawful associations, but will give to the Government power which I, for one, am not prepared to give them in any circumstances whatever. The Government will then have unlimited power to make regulations. 
If the amendment is pressed I propose to vote against it. I want to say that it is an entirely logical amendment, and I can find no fault with it on that ground. It seems to me that it is an unanswerable argument that if it is a wrong thing for John Smith, who happens to be a member of the Industrial Workers of the World, or some other unlawful association, in time of war, to incite men to delay the loading of a transport, for instance, it cannot be a right thing- for William Brown, who does not happen to be a member of the Industrial Workers of the World,' but is a member of some other organization, to do the same thing. . If we have to take a vote upon the amendment, and it is carried, any union deciding to strike, for instance, would, I presume, have a meeting of its members, at which a motion to strike would probably be made, and then the man who moved the motion would be liable under this Bill. I am not saying that some steps will not yet have to be taken to prevent strikes which affect our warlike operations. But we cannot deal with such a matter as that piecemeal, or in this Bill. We have legislation in some of the States, and I think also in the Commonwealth, which makes a strike illegal, but it has so far been honoured more in . the breach than in the observance, and nothing very dreadful has happened. To-day we have to recognise the fact that no matter what law may appear upon our statute-books, the strike is the accepted practice of the. unions. I do not propose that we should deal with this very big matter in this piecemeal fashion. The whole standing, privileges, and rights of unions must be passed in review before we can accept a proposition to deny that which the community tolerates as a practice, and which the law has so far tolerated. In the circumstances, although I agree with its logic, I am unable to support the amendment submitted by  Senator Keating, 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 6 to 8, preamble, and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
So far as the principle of the Bill is concerned, it is not necessary to say anything about it. We should just put it through. But I desire to ask a question which was put by  Senator Ready  a moment or two ago. I observe that the measure is limited to the duration of the war and six months thereafter. If it is to be so limited I submit that, on the termination of the war, we shall lose the benefit of what should prove a very useful measure. 
This is one of those measures to which I attach very little importance. I happened to be in the Old Country recently when a similar Bill was brought into operation, and scarcely any one knew anything about it. I quite recognise that it is possible to save money by dispensing with artificial light for a certain period of the year. I am glad that the Commonwealth has taken action to make this, practice uniform throughout Australia. When I was serving my. time, and for some years afterwards, I used to start work at 6 o'clock in the morning during seven months of the year, and at 7 o'clock in the morning during five months of the year. But the wiseacres in the persona of our employers came along and said, " You must all start work at the one time, namely, 8 o'clock." As, a result we lost an hour's daylight.. We had a strike in opposition to the employers' orders - a strike which lasted ten weeks - and we were defeated.- But I am pleased to know that we are now going to revert to the ideal of the trade unionists of thirty years ago. When in England I heard the story of an old lady who would not put her old clock back because it had " told the truth for 100 years, and she could not bear it to tell a lie"; but she had put her little clock back, as it was made in Germany, and was used to lying. 
I congratulate the Government on bringing forward the Bill, even at this late hour of the session. We have had a little experience in Tasmania of daylight saving, and saving on our light bills. There was considerable opposition to the reform in Tasmania when the Bill was first introduced, but that has almost entirely disappeared. To Captain Giblin, ex-member of the House of Assembly, now at the front with the 40th Battalion, is due the credit for getting the Bill through, after a long and strenuous fight. It seems a small thing to put the clock forward an hour, but the alteration has been appreciated very highly in Tasmania, as I have been told by a number of workers there in the last month or two. When they knock off at 5 o'clock they have nearly five hours of daylight for recreation or amusement. That alone, without the other savings stated, would justify the putting forward of the clock in the beautiful summer climate of the Commonwealth. Another health advantage which has not been touched on is that it gets one to bed an hour earlier every night. We go to bed at 11 o'clock, as usual, although it is really 10 o'clock, so that the Bill is . really, a legislative inculcation of the old adage, " Early to bed and early to rise makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise." Doctors speak very highly of the Bill for health reasons. 
We, in Tasmania, have led Australia in this reform, and, in consequence, have been under a great difficulty because our time has been an hour different from mainland time. All the boats sailing to and from Tasmania nave kept mainland time, but the time of departure has had Eb be advertised in the press in Tasmanian time.- Other complications arose, particularly in the sending of telegrams and cables. The closing of the post-offices had to be extended in Tasmania by one hour to keep the time uniform, and' I believe this caused a little friction as far as telegraphic arrangements were concerned, which had to be adjusted. All these disadvantages will disappear with a uniform Act. I hope the Government will look into the constitutional question raised by  Senator Millen,  so that, instead of being only a temporary war measure, this reform may be permanently grafted upon the national life of the people of Australia. 
 Senator Millen  seems to be under the impression that this measure has been introduced in consequence or on account of the war, and for its duration only. If that is the case, the validity of the legislation can be seriously challenged, because no such ground or' justification is shown in the measure for submitting it and passing it into law. Any authority that we have for passing legislation of this character is given under section 51 of the Constitution, in the paragraph dealing with astronomical and meteorological matters. 1 have very grave and serious doubt whether the measure is within the competence of the Federal Legislature. Had it been desired to pass a measure of this kind, and make time uniform throughout Australia, even adopting the zone system that applies under present conditions that might have been done by regulation under the War Precautions Act; but whether we have the competence to decide by legislation what shall or shall not be standard time for any particular portion of the Commonwealth is very much open to question. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
The Senate is in a position similar to that which arose in connexion with the Entertainments Tax Bill, which was received here without the accompanying Assess ment Bill. Honorable senators expressed the desire to have the Assessment Bill first, but as that measure is not yet available, we have been compelled, owing to the short time at our disposal, to go on with the taxation measure first. If honorable senators desire to postpone this measure until the other Bill is before the Senate, there will be no objection. Very little requires to be said for the Bill, which simply provides for an all-round increase of about 25 per cent, upon the taxation of last year. It is scarcely necessary for' me to say that the money must be obtained to meet our interest obligations, and provide for our other undertakings. I might add, however, that there has been a uniform alteration in regard to the exemptions. Most honorable senators will remember that there was a higher exemption in the case of incomes from personal exertion in last year's Act as compared with the exemptions on income from property, but this year the exemption in both will disappear at £500 on a graduated scale. Companies' incomes will have to provide for the usual increase, which will bring their tax up to 1s. 101/2d. in the £1. It is estimated that the increase provided for will bring in an additional revenue of about £1,000,000. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without request. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
Though this is rather a lengthy Bill, it contains few or no principles. It simply provides machinery whereby the grand principle embodied in the taxing Act may be carried out. The main principle of the measure is to prevent persons from dodging the tax. It prescribes what societies and entertainments shall be taxed, and defines an entertainment to include " any exhibition, performance, lecture, amusement, game or sport for admission to which payment is made." The exemptions are set out in clause 12, as follows : - 
Entertainments tax shall not he charged on payments for admission to any entertainment where the Commissioner is satisfied - 
that the whole of the takings thereof are devoted to philanthropic, religious, or charitable purposes without any charge on the takings for any expenses of the entertainment; or 
that the entertainment is of a wholly educational character (any question on that ' point to be determined, in case of difference, by the Commissioner) ; or 
that the entertainment is intended only for the amusement of children, and that the charge is not more than 1d. for each person; or 
that the entertainment is provided for partly educational or partly scientific purposes by a society, institution, or committee not conducted or established for profit. 
The last exemption will include agricultural societies - that is, where no payment is made to members of the committee; but the ordinary agricultural society as conducted in Australia will be exempt from taxation under this measure. Of course, the charities, children's bazaars, and so on are also exempted. There is another clause of some little importance, and that is clause 13, which provides for a refund of the tax in certain cases. It says - 
Where the Commissioner is satisfied that the whole of the net proceeds of an entertainment are devoted to philanthropic, religious, or charitable purposes, and that the whole of the expenses of the entertainment do not exceed 50 per centum of the receipts, he shall repay to the proprietor the amount of the entertainments tax paid in respect of the entertainment. 
A refund of the amount of the tax will be granted where the entertainment is held purely for philanthropic purposes. A refund is provided in another case. 
Provided that when the Commissioner is satisfied that, owing to adverse climatic con. ditions the expenses of an entertainment for philanthropic, religious, or. charitable purposes in respect of which payments for admission have been made exceed 50 per centum of the receipts, the Commissioner shall repay to the proprietor the amount of the entertainments tax paid in respect of the entertainment. 
Where a fete or a gathering has Deen organized, and owing to adverse weather conditions certain expense has been undertaken by the parties interested, as they are acting purely from a philanthropic motive, that is for the purpose of raising money for an institution, a refund to that amount will be granted. Most of the other provisions are merely machinery provisions for an effective check upon the revenue. 
Taking advantage of the brief interval which occurred just now, I asked the Minister a question as to what entertainments were exempted by the provisions he has read ; and I assume from the statement he made just now, that paragraph 6 of clause 12 was intended to supply the information I was seeking. I want to ask the Minister to be very clear on this point, because I think it would be defeating the purpose of Parliament if we attempted to levy the tax on agricultural shows. Although the Minister says tnat they are exempt, as I think they ought to be, he put a qualification on that exemption; but, apart from the qualification, I am not quite clear, although I accept, his statement as to the intention, that the Bill does exempt these institutions. Clause 12 provides, amongst other things, that the tax shall no't be charged on payments for admission to any entertainment where the Commissioner is satisfied 
that the entertainment is provided for partly . educational or partly scientific purposes by a society, institution, or committee not conducted or established for profit. 
I see many difficulties there in regard to these institutions. The question is whether one would say that an agricultural or horticultural show is partly scientific or partly educational. The Commissioner might take a different view of the matter. When it comes to a question of being conducted for a profit, many of these shows make a profit at one gathering. They do not exist for profit-making, and, on the whole, whatever profits they make go to the improvement of their large grounds. Nevertheless, they make a profit, and it was out of the profits that the Royal Agricultural Society at Sydney built up their magnificent grounds and improvements. I notice that in paragraph 3 of section 10 the South Australian Act of 1916 exempts these shows. It reads as. follows: - 
Amusements duty shall not be charged on payments for admission to any agricultural, horticultural, floricultural, poultry, dog, or other like show. 
That -provision is clear and explicit. I ask the Minister to consider before we come to the Committee stage whether it would not be better to incorporate words of that kind, or, at any rate, to amplify the wording of the clause as it stands. 

 .- Senator Millen has nut forth a plea for agricultural societies. If the Government are to be moved by that plea, I would point out to them that once they open the door to exemptions they cannot stop there. From time to time in Victoria there is held an exhibition of a highlyimportant character for the . purpose of helping onward Australian industries. It is held under the auspices of the Australian Natives Association in the Exhibition Building here, and is very educa tional. If the Government once open the door in regard to exemptions, it will be very difficult to say where to stop. The exhibition I referred to is not run for a profit, but a charge for admission is made. There have been two or three exhibitions held under the auspices of the Australian Natives Association. The exhibitions have had a highly educational interest to visitors, and a very big effect in encouraging Australian manufactures in different parts of the Commonwealth. They have helped to create a patriotic sentiment in Australia that was not so strongly manifested before the Australian Natives Association took the matter in hand. 
In the various States demonstrations in connexion with which sports are held are arranged every year by trade societies in celebration of the Eight Hours Day. The proceeds in some cases are used entirely for the purpose of completing partially erected trades halls. I am not sure that such demonstrations and sports would be covered by paragraph  d  of clause 12. 
I am glad that  Senator Findley  raised' the question he did in connexion with paragraph  d  of clause 12, under which the Assistant Minister has said that shows conducted by agricultural societies will be exempt from this taxation. Though that is not quite clear to me, I accept the assurance of the Minister. I hope we shall have a similar assurance in respect of the Australian Natives' Association Exhibition, to which  Senator Findley  has referred, and 'which is held on the 26th January in this State. I am doubtful whether that exhibition, which is largely scientific and educational, will be covered by paragraph  d  of clause 12. I hope that before the Bill goes into Committee the Assistant Minister will be able to five us some assurance on the point. Last year the exhibition was run at apretty severe financial loss,but this year it is hoped there will be a profit. 
We have not had much time to look into this Bill, and I therefore require a little information. I should like to know whether it is the intention of the Government to tax complimentary tickets and cards of invitation for entertainments for admission to persons who do not hold such tickets or cards are obliged to pay. If it is not the intention of the Government to tax such tickets and cards it should be. I should like to know also whether totalizator tickets, and tickets for Tattersall's sweeps, from which a considerable revenue is derived, are to be liable to this taxation, or whether those who derive large profits from this source of revenue are to be allowed to go scot-free ! 
Questions in dispute as to liability to taxation under clause 12 are to be determined by the Commissioner, from whose decision there is no appeal. I have the authority of the Acting Commissioner to say that, in his opinion, clause 12 does cover agricultural shows, and we may, therefore, accept that as final. They are partly educational and partly scientific. The Australian Natives Association Exhibition referred to by Senators Findley and Blakey would certainly come under the same determination, as it is not held for the purpose of making a profit. The whole matter depends on the question whether the fete, carnival, race-meeting, cricket or football match, or sports meeting is run for profit. Tickets for admission to a professional football match would undoubtedly be taxed, but if there were a guarantee that a particular match was an amateur game, it would be a question for the Commissioner to decide whether it would not be exempt. 
I want a little information from the Minister in charge of the Bill. In South Australia a concert is held annually by the children of the State schools, in which as many as a thousand children take part. There is a charge for admission, 'but the whole of the money is devoted to the decoration of the schools throughout the State. This cannot definitely be said to be a charity, nor can it any more definitely be said to be an entertainment run for profit, whilst it is certainly in the interests of education. 
-I would like to be clear as to the position that will be occupied by the annual demonstration of the Eight Hours Union. The Assistant Minister has stated that in Victoria the demonstration is conducted purely on charitable lines. But Victoria is the only State in the Commonwealth which has enacted legislation in that direction. In the other States, the annual demonstration is conducted in the capitals and towns in which there is an Eight Hours Union of the various trades and occupations. If any profit results from the demonstration, it is devoted, not to the organizations, but to the erection of a hall, in- which they may meet. I do not know under what heading such entertainments will come. 
I understand that an institution holding a benefit carnival, such as the Trades Hall, will not be exempt from the operation of the Bill, unless the Commissioner determines that the carnival is of a charitable, educational, or scientific character. Where an eight hours demonstration is run for charitable purposes, the proceeds will be exempt from taxation, but where it is run for the benefit of a building fund it will be taxed. 
I should like to know whether the tickets of admission to social and other forms of entertainment which are held by committees of the Liberal party to assist in defraying the cost of their election campaigns will be exempt from taxation? 
I would point out to the honorable senator that it is not so much a question of the nature of the function as it is of its object and purpose. If the Women's National League hold a garden party, for example, and the profits are used for political purposes, they will certainly be taxed. 
.- It seems to me that there ought to be some provision in the- Bill to exempt from taxation all Eight Hours Demonstrations. I have had some experience of the little demonstration that is held in Tasmania. The profits from it are really nil, and the demonstration is practically financed by voluntary contributions. I know that these contributions amount to £50 or £60, and that the whole takings do not exceed £120. It would be cruel to tax a demonstration of that sort, which is not run for the purposes of private profit. If a profit should accrue from the exhibition, it is devoted to providing, a hall for the various trade organizations. But that profit is represented entirely by voluntary contributions. 
.- I think that any profits derived by trade organizations in Australia from their annual fetes in connexion with the eight hours-* principle should be exempted from taxation for the same reason that the profits derived from an exhibition under the auspices of the Australian Natives Association are to be  exempt. In Victoria, for many, years, Labour has celebrated the Eight Hours Day in a way worthy of the occasion. There is, in connexion with that demonstration, an art union, and thousands of tickets are sold which enable their purchasers to witness the sports that are held in the arena and the pother amusements which are provided - in  the  main building. After the demonstration a balance-sheet is presented, and a certain amount is devoted to State charities. A statement was recently published in the press to the effect that the Peacock Government do not intend to approve of the holding of any future art unions in connexion with the Eight Hours Demonstration; but whether they will live long enough to do anything further in the direction suggested, I do not know. At the present time, they are between the devil and the briny. Their fate hangs in the balance. Some say that their days are numbered, and I hope that they are. 
But if the Eight Hours' Union is not permitted to hold an art union in connexion with future demonstrations, a certain sum of money will have to be provided for the expenditure which must necessarily be incurred, and any profits resulting therefrom will, according to the statement of the Assistant Minister, be taxed. 
Several cases have been cited where hardships might inure if the provisions of the Bill were made applicable to the receipts in connexion with particular forms of entertainment. An important institution exists in this Commonwealth which does not exist anywhere else, in the world - the annual Inter-State eight-oar race - which has been intermitted since the war began. I do not expect the Minister to be in a position to say whether any particular institution will or will not come within the purview of the Bill in the opinion of the Commissioner, but I take it that the Commissioner, in exercising his discretion under clause 12, will to a certain extent be guided by the general feeling of Parliament when the Bill was going through. 
It 'has been distinctly stated that the agricultural societies throughout the States will be exempt from this taxation. There are agricultural shows held annually, not only in the capitals, but in almost every town along the coast and inland. They do not make a great deal of money, but they have a certain amount of ground, and on its improvement expend whatever profit is made. In addition to Brisbane, shows are held at Ipswich, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Bundaberg, Mackay, and other places by agricultural and industrial societies, but in all those places there' is also another annual demonstration which brings the people into the centres. That is the demonstration bv the Labour orrganizations, which has exactly the same effect, and to a great extent a similar influence. No person or individual organization makes a profit out of these - gatherings. In most places the , State has granted a piece of land on which the organizations are to erect a building. Their principal means of raising funds is their annual demonstration, and the profits are ' always used to improve the land and erect buildings for the benefit of the organized labour in the district, just as the annual agricultural and industrial shows are held for the benefit of the people engaged in agriculture and industry. An honorable senator from South Australia has called my attention to the fact that a wealthy man in Adelaide paid off the debt on the Trades Hall in Adelaide, but in most other cases in Australia numbers of people by attending these demonstrations provide a certain amount of money which is used to pay for or improve the hall. 
In paragraph  c  of the clause there appears the following: - 
That the entertainment is intended only for the amusement of children, and that the charge is not more than Id. for each person; or 
It would appear that the Bill was drawn up at a, time when 6d. and even 3d. tickets were included, but tickets up to 6d. have been exempted, and I want to know now if entertainments given by private showmen to school children will be included. It seems to me necessary to alter this paragraph in order to make the Bill conform, with the other measure which we have passed. 
The words complained of by the honorable senator are useless, but they can do no harm, and I would ask the honorable senator not to press the matter. 
I would suggest that  Senator Senior  press the question he has raised. The Minister says it does not mattervery much, and, that' being so, I do not see why another place should not accept the amendment at once. It would indicate, at all events, that we are  edeavouring to harmonize our legislation, and if we are here simply to wait on another place, and are expected to say " ditto," we might just as well go home. 
SenatorSENIOR (South Australia) [9.38]. - I will adopt the suggestion of  Senator Keating,  and move - 
That in paragraph c the words " One penny " be left out, with a view to insert in lieu thereof the word " sixpence." 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 13 to 21 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment: report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I understand that we shall have to wait for some time for clean copies of the Income Tax Assessment Bill. There are only about halfadozen available. 
I move - 
That this Bill be now read a second time. 
This is really the complement to the -Bill which was recently passed fixing the rate of income tax for the present year. The object of the measure is to effect certain amendments in the principal Act, which have been found, as the result of practical experience gained by the officers, to be necessary for the successful working of the Act, and to remove those little frictions which from time to time arise in the working of. a large Act of this character. The Bill makes one or two amendments in the principal Act. Where, for instance, a man is allowed a deduction for a dependant the rate Has been increased from £13 to £26. Likewise where a man is allowed to make a deduction for each of his children the amount has been increased from. £13 to £16. It' has been found necessary to amplify the provisions of the principal Act with regard to official secrecy, so as to enable a free interchange and exchange of information between Commonwealth and State officers. This amplification will lighten the work a good deal, and will be the initial step in leading to what we trust will be the harmonizing and cheapening of these services, as well as making more effective provision in that regard. 
.--In this clause I notice a 'provision amending the principal Act by omitting from paragraph  e  of section 11, the words " The War Loan Act(No. 1) 1915," and inserting in their stead the. words, "a Commonwealth War Loan." Owing to the brief period in which the Bill has been in our hands, I am not quite clear as to the effect of that amendment. But if, as it seems to me, it is intended to incorporate in this measure a permanent exemption for all future war loans, the Committee should be informed of that, so that we shall not unwittingly commit ourselves to a declaration of policy as to future war loans. I would like the Minister to say whether  this provision is merely intended to legalize the second war loan, or whether it is intended to cover future war loans. 
 The Government feel that in granting the exemption under the War Loan Act, both Houses deliberately led the people of this country to believe that such exemption would be granted in respect to all war loans. We found that the moment it was intimated that there was going to be a tax on war bonds and inscribed stock the drop in their value was very marked indeed, indicating that we would have to . pay at least 41/2 per cent for war money. The Government felt that they were under an obligation, not so much to a previous Government as to the decision of Parliament to exempt war loans from taxation. 
 I am sorry to hear the statement of the Minister, because it raises the whole question. I have no desire in doing so to cut across the conditions under which previous loans -may have been issued, and if this provision could be so amended as to apply only to those loans which have been floated, I would be content to rest there. If we are now asked under the guise of an Income Tax Bill, to tie our hands as to future loans, I am unable to consent to the provision. What I suggest to the Government is that they should cover all the loans issued to date, and then when a fresh loan is about to be floated, the Parliament will have another opportunity of considering and determining the conditions under which future loans shall be issued. In the short time at my disposal, I have been' unable to ascertain exactly how this provision fits in with the principal Act, but in order to put ourselves on a proper footing, I move - 
That the words " a Commonwealth War Loan " be- left out. 
 I do not quite know what the effect of their omission would be. 
It was the same lines in the Bill which arrested my attention. I recognise the difficulty with which the Government are confronted in reference to this matter. Provision has been made with regard to the first war loan, referred to here as the war loan of 1915 I take it, though I am not quite sure on the point, that the object of the provision is to make applicable to subsequent war loans the provisions that apply to the first war loan in connexion with the exemption from income tax. 
 Since I spoke I have obtained a copy of the main Act, and I should like, by permission of the Committee, to withdraw my amendment, with a view to sub- mitting  it in an amended form. The section of the existing Act which we are by this clause invited to amend reads - 
The following incomes, revenues, and fundsshall he exempt from income tax. 
And paragraph  e  of the section which is sought to be amended by this Bill reads - 
The income derived from bonds, debentures, stock, or other securities of the Commonwealth issued under the provisions of War Loan Act No. 1 1916. 
We have been asked to amend that, and my desire will be attained if the Committee will negative paragraph  a  of the clause now under consideration. That will leave the existing Income Tax Assessment Act as it stands in this connexion, and it does exempt war loans issued so far. 
.- I wish the Committee to be quite clear as to what it is doing. The last war loan authorized was for £50,000,000, and of that amount only about £23,000,000 has been borrowed. I should like to know whether it is the desire' of .honorable senators that the unissued balance of that £50,000,000 loan shall come under this provision or not. Personally, I am inclined to support the Government in this matter, because I know that all the money we can borrow in  any way will be required for war purposes. I want to be clear whether the words, " Commonwealth War Loans authorized before 1st January," 1917," will cover the balance of the last war loan that has not yet been floated. 
The Assistant Minister will correct me if I am wrong, but I take it that the eff ect of my amendment will be to apply this provision to loans so far authorized. The question is whether the Government are likely to float the balance of the last loan, authorized between this and the 1st January. I do not think, that is at all probable. 
.  - I think the Committee is unanimous, that, as far as money already lent to the Commonwealth is concerned,' we have no desire to disturb the conditions on which it was raised ; but so far as money yet to be raised is concerned, we claim to have a free hand in deciding the terms upon which it shall be raised. If  Senator Millen  adheres to the use of the word " Authorized " in his amendment, the consequence may be that the balance of £27,000,000 not floated of the war loan for £50,000,000 already authorized will escape the scrutiny of this Parliament, so far. as the conditions upon which it is to be floated are concerned. If that be so, I think the intention of the Committee will not be given effect to. 
 Senator Keating  has put the position correctly. The fact is  that about £27,000,000 of the last loan authorized by Parliament has not yet been issued, but that loan was advertised as one loan, and the announcement was made to the public that the interest upon the loan would be exempt from State and Federal income tax. I see that with respect to that loan the present Treasurer, in his interim financial statement, said - 
The proposal already made includes war bonds and inscribed stock as being subject to levy. There are some members who believe that no promise or pledge was given that these bonds should be free from all taxation, and, on examination of the war loan prospectus, that contention can be maintained, as therein it is stated that " all bonds and all transfers of inscribed stock will be free of Commonwealth and State stamp duty, and interest will be free of Commonwealth and State income tax." Clearly they were not to be free from all taxation, but many of the public appear to have been under the . impression that the principal would not be taxed in any way, and the announcement that a levy of one-half per cent, per annum for three years on war bonds, as well as on ordinary wealth, was to be imposed has unsettled the value of these securities, and, in some instances, so I am advised, investments have gone to other countries because of this proposal. The position of the Commonwealth is a dual one. In addition to our intention to increase taxation, we are also a borrower within our territorial limits. 
We have to consider to what extent certain conditions attached to the loan were advertised. 
I did not hear the Assistant Minister's concluding remarks. I understand, however,that the acceptance of the amendment will mean that this Parliament will be afforded an opportunity of saying whether all future war loans shall be exempt from taxation.' I do not think that  Senator Millen  intends that the unsubscribed balance of the loan for £50,000,000, for which applications were recently invited, shall be subject to income tax. Do the Government accept the position that Parliament shall determine whether all future loans shall pay Commonwealth and State income tax? 
.- If I understand the position aright, the amendment will not in any way touch the balance of the war loan which has yet to be issued. If that be so, there is no necessity for that amendment, because whenever any future war loan is projected we shall be free and unfettered. 
The amendment of  Senator Millen  will certainly improve the clause, but I am not enamoured of the fact that it will exempt from taxation the balance of the loan which has been already authorized. In regard to every war loan that has been issued the prospectus has intimated that the interest accruing from the bonds will be free from income tax. I cannot repudiate that arrangement, but I would point out that we have not issued any prospectus in regard to the balance of the loan that has been already authorized, which balance amounts to £27,000,000. 
When applications were invited for subscriptions to a war loan of £50,000,000, the people were given to understand that the interest derived from their war bonds would be exempt from income tax, stamp duty, and, indeed, any other form of taxation. Despite these inducements, however, and notwithstanding that the country is engaged in a life-and-death struggle, we got less than half the amount for which we asked'. Now it is proposed that all future war loans shall be launched on a less favorable market. If we tell the public that we intend to charge income tax, stamp duty, and wealth tax on all moneys invested in future war loans, shall we get the £27,000,000 which represents the balance of the loan which has already been authorized ? I do- not think so. In my opinion, it does not matter very much whether we get the money in this fashion or . not, because there is another and far more satisfactory way of raising it, which I shall' be glad to see put into operation. 
I wish to congratulate the Senate on the change that has come over it since the last occasion when this matter was discussed. I recollect that whenSenator Mullan first moved an amendment; with a view to subjecting the interest derived from war loans to State and Federal income tax, only two honorable senators supported him. On the second occasion there were five others, who were described as fanatics, to say nothing of those who supported  Senator Stewart's  proposal for the non-payment of interest on war loans. I welcome Senators Millen and Keating to the convert ranks. It appears to me only fair that income from interest on war loans should be subject to the same taxation as income from any other source. In connexion with the last loan, we invited applications for £50,000,000, but only £23,000,000 was subscribed. I should liketo see the balance of that loan subjected to State and Federal income tax. Seeing that the Commonwealth Government called for a loan of £50,000,000 for war purposes, and only £23,000,000 was subscribed, the moneyed shirkers who did not respond to the call should not be shown any consideration now. 
I am afraid  Senator Millen  will not accomplish the object he has in view. There will be nothing to prevent the Government bringing down a further authorization and exempting loans to be raised under it from income tax. 
This is a very comprehensive clause, that seems to strike at many- of the principles of the original measure. Will the Minister briefly explain its significance, purpose, and effect? 
.- The first two amendments proposed make the intention of the first part of sub-section 1 of section 18 of the principal Act clearer, by specifically stating that the section deals only with assessable income, that is, income which is not exempt, and that the deductions allowable are in respect of expenditure incurred in producing the assessable income. Under amendmentc the war-time profits tax payable on the profits of a business earned in 1915-16, and which are being assessed for income tax for 1916-17, will be deductible when ascertaining the taxable income for the 1916-17 assessment. It will be noticed that the new section does not say that the deduction is to be war-time profits tax paid in the year in which the taxable income was derived. The proposal will operate so as to prevent payment of income tax on that part of the profits of the year which will be taken as war-time profits tax. It will authorize the Commissioner of Taxation to, in effect, reopen the income tax assessments based on the 1914-15 income in those cases in which war-time profits tax is also payable on that income, so as to allow refunds of income tax already assessed on that part of the profits which will be taken as war-time profits tax. That is to avoid double taxation. It is proposed to provide in the War-time Profits Tax Assessment Bill a clause authorizing the Commissioner to treat these refunds as a set-off against the amount of war-time profits tax in those cases in which, when the income tax was assessed, it was not practicable .to ascertain the amount of the war-time profits tax which would be deductible. The proviso to - amendment c is a proper one to insert in the Bill, otherwise larger deductions than are justly allowable will be allowed in all those cases in which taxpayers have received refunds on account of overpayment of any of the taxes mentioned. 
Clause agreed ,to. 
Clause 11 - 
Section nineteen of the principal Act is repealed, and the following section inserted in its stead : - 19. (1) In the case of a person (other than a company, an' absentee, or a person without a dependant) there shall be deducted, in addition to the sums set forth in the last preceding section, the sum of One hundred and fifty-six pounds less Five pounds for every Eleven pounds by which the income . exceeds One hundred and fifty-six pounds. 
When the total taxable income consists partly of income from personal exertion and partly of income from property the deduction under this section shall be apportioned pro rata between the income from each source. 
In the case of a person (not being an absentee) without a dependant there shall be deducted, in addition to the sums set forth in the last preceding section, the sum. of One hundred pounds less One pound for every, Four pounds by which the income exceeds One hundred pounds.. 
We should have a statement from the " Minister as to how the proposed alterations will  affect  different members of the community. No one objects to taxation for the furtherance of the war, but there has been such a material alteration in these proposals from those that were under our consideration a short while ago , that an explanation of why the disparities are approved of by the Government is called for from the Minister. Under former taxation proposals, an exemption of £156 was allowed, disappearing when the  taxable income reached £1,020. It is proposed now that the exemption shall disappear when the taxable income reaches £500. We were told that the new proposals mean,t, in effect, an increase of 25 per cent, in the taxation on incomes, conveying the impression to most honorable senators that the 25 per cent, increase would be general in its application. But, in actual working, it will not have that effect. In some cases incomes will have to pay an increase of at least 100* percent. 
The point raised by  Senator Findley  touches on the general policy with regard to exemptions. The general exemption is £156 in the case of a person, other than a company, an absentee, or a person without a dependant, and it will be reduced by £5 for every £11 increase in the taxable income over £156, until it disappears when the total taxable income from all sources reaches £500. In the case of a person not being an absentee, and having no dependants, the general exemption will be £100. This will be reduced . by £1 for every £4 by which the taxable income exceeds £100. so that the exemption will disappear when the total taxable income reaches £500. I pointed out when I was referring to this matter at the time, that the notes handed to me showed that the exemption had been altered, and that the average rate of increase was 25 per cent. 
It will be remembered that when we were discussing the former Income Tax Assessment Bill I asked the Minister in charge if he would give some explanation of the parabolic curve of ' taxation which then expressed the formula for taxing incomes, and the Minister simply assured the Senate that it was a line laid down by  Mr. Knibbs.  We accepted that assurance, but I did so under protest, and now what do we find ? The Government propose to increase the income tax, but instead of the curve being convex it has taken concave shape so far as certain incomes areconcerned. It is now not really a curve at all, but a sinuous line', and, as a matter of fact, the exact increase levied upon individuals in receipt of incomes between £300 and £800 a year comes to practically the same amount in £ s. d. as the extra sum to be exacted from men with incomes of over £1,000 a year, ls this equitable? I do not think that any honorable senator can justify the incidence of this scheme. On a former occasion I deemed it necessary to criticise the formula applied to the assessment of incomes, and now, when an attempt is being made to increase the demands on the people of this country, can it be said that the call is being made in proportion to income, as was the case before this extra taxation became necessary ? 
This is another evidence of the effect of introducing legislation just at a time when honorable senators are anxious to get away to their homes ; and I can see looming in the distance the time when, if the. Government introduce measures like this, the Senate will simply adjourn over the holidays and resume to go on with the business.- Is it fair that the Senate should be asked to consider a measure like this? In the first place, the Bill brought down was just the taxing 
Bill. The Government have now brought down a complicated measure which one could not thoroughly understand without devoting a day or two of solid work to the task of comparing it with the original Act. We were allowing this Bill to pass almost without any criticism when this question was raised. On the motion for the second reading of the Bill I asked the Minister, by way of interjection, whether he would give us some examples of how this proposed amendment of the Act would work out, and he replied that he would do so later on.  Senator Findley  had already worked out what would be the extent of the increase of taxation in respect of a number of/ incomes, and he has shown that under this proposal men who are in receipt of the smaller incomes of from £300 to £700 or £800 a year will be called upon to bear a greater share of this increased tax than will these in receipt of larger incomes. I should like to know whether the Government deliberately laid themselves out to do this. Did they merely say, " We want an increase of 25 per cent, in the tax," without taking care to see that the bulk of the increase would not fall upon those in receipt of the smaller incomes ? I believe it would be better either to send this Bill back to another place for further consideration or to allow the whole question to stand over till we meet again. The Bill, even if passed now, would not be put in force before the date on which it is proposed to re-assemble. 
I think it would be wise to report progress and allow this  question  to stand over till to-morrow morning. If I am any judge of the temper of the Committee I think this clause is likely to be struck out, so that the Government will do well to come prepared to-morrow with something to take its place. 
Motion (by  Senator Russell)  proposed - 
That progress be reported. 
.- I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
I wish to clear up a few arrears of work that have accumulated within the last few days. I have first a statement to make in reference to  Senator Gardiner's'  remarks concerning a number of officers who have qualified for commissions in Australia, and for whom it has been found impossible to find positions.  Senator Gardiner  suggested, first of all, that these officers should be sent to the front, and in the alternative that they should be sent to the Old Country, and the British authorities asked to find places for them. The honorable senator is quite justified in the anxiety he has displayed in regard to these men, but there are difficulties in the way of dealing with them satisfactorily. In the first place, the men at the front to-day who are eligible for promotion would naturally feel aggrieved if men coming fresh from Australia were placed over their heads. Then with respect to the second suggestion, we learn that in the camps in Great Britain special schools of instruction have been established for the training of men who have returned from the field of battle, and they are qualifying as commissioned and noncommissioned officers in those schools of instruction. To replace them with men sent fresh from Australia would raise just the same difficulty. It is clear, therefore, that the matter is beset with difficulties which were not apparent at the outset.  Senator Millen,  I believe, made the same suggestion as did  Senator Gardiner. 
 I regret the answer given by  Senator Lynch  as to those officers, who, at great inconvenience and expense to themselves, have qualified for commissions. I take the answer as an attempt to reply to the arguments I put forward the other day. I was not, however, putting the case with a view to argument, but simply stating a fact that was- clear to every one, namely, that this represents the tearing up of a "scrap of paper." Here we have capable, willing young men, who are tossed aside simply because there is some present difficulty. I have no desire to prevent the men at the front from getting promotion, but we have here a number of highly-trained, efficient officers, anxious to get to the front, and it is our duty to send them there. 
I thank the Minister for Works for replying to the' question that I addressed to him privately this afternoon in connexion with the proposal of the previous Government to send an Industrial Commission to America. On the 30th November I asked whether the Government had given further consideration to the question, and, if so, when they would be in a position to announce the  personnel  of the Commission. The reply I received from.  Senator Pearce  then Was that the matter was " under the consideration of the Government." To-day, however, the Minister for Works tells us that the question has not yet been considered by this Government. With all due deference to the honorable gentleman and his Government, I think it is quite time' that the question was determined yea or nay. During the absence of the Prime Minister in England,  Senator Pearce,  who was Acting Prime Minister, was at a certain function in Melbourne, presided over by  Mr. Brooks,,  who suggested that such a Commission should be sent to America. To that suggestion the Acting Prime Minister practically agreed,  and applications were called for from the different States for the nomination of representatives of employees and employers. 
I shall have inquiries made into the matter: We have already done something with a view to the protection of the farmer, but I am not clear as to our powers in this matter. If they are not complete enough, I shall have the matter brought under the notice of the Government. 
I ask  Senator Russell,  as a member of the Wheat Board, if representations have been made as to the need for acquiring wheat for Tasmania, and the terms on which it may be obtained  1  If so, has anything been done in the matter ? If the Minister has any information regarding it, will he make a statement to the Senate? 
I have had inquiries made, and find that the Tasmanian farmers are in rather an unfortunate position so far as the pool is concerned, because they must be charged 6d. a bushel extra, as compared with the Victorian  farmers, to pay for transport. I have brought the matter before the Wheat Board, and I hope to secure finality regarding it at the next meeting of the Board, which will be in a few days. 

 Mr. GRIFFIN. 

Will the Minister for Works, in the interests of economy, take into consideration the desirability of suspending the work of the expensive staff now engaged in assisting  Mr. .  Griffin and the advisability of paying to  Mr. Griffin  the amount that should come to him for the remainder of the term of his engagement, allowing him henceforth to, devote the whole of his time to private work ? 
 Mr. Griffin  was appointed Federal Capital Director of Design and Construction, under a very definite contract with the Government, and he could not carry out the duties of his office without a staff. Under the circumstances, I cannot agree to the dismissal of the staff.- As to dispensing with  Mr. Griffin's  services, I shall refer that matter to the Cabinet for discussion. 
There was some objection to this clause last night, on the  ground that it unduly increased the taxation of small income. The increase objected to arises from the fact that, in addition to the imposition of a super-tax of 25 per cent., there has been an alteration of the exemptions. This has resulted in some cases in increasing the amount of the tax paid by a little over 100 per cent. Last year, the exemptions allowed in regard to incomes from personal exertion began to decrease with an income of £500, and ceased altogether with an income of £1,020, the exemption in regard to, an income from property dying away between incomes of £156 and £546. This year, however, the tax is much more equitable, because it is arranged more scientifically. The exemptions of last year make the percentage comparison inapplicable to the lower incomes. Some honorable senators seem to think that the taxation of the lower incomes has been enormously increased without a proportionate increase of the taxa tion on the higher incomes, but that is not so. The Bill adjusts the burden of taxation more equitably and uniformly in respect of incomes than the Act does. On an income from personal exertion of £200 a year the rate of the tax to the taxable income would be½ per cent. On a similar income from property it would be ½ per cent., and on a similar income with £100 from personal exertion and £100 from property the rate would be½ per cent. On an income of £300 from personal exertion the rate would be1¼ per cent. ; from property,1½ per cent. ; and a mixed income of £150 from personal exertion, and £150 from property,1½ per cent. on each. For an income of £400 from personal exertion the rate would be 2 per cent. ; from property,2½ per cent. ; and from the mixed income2¼ per cent and 2 per cent. I come now to an income of £500, which is one of the low incomes that has been referred to by honorable senators. I ask them to consider what the tax was last year, and whether the tax now proposed can be considered extreme in such a case in war time  1  On an income of £500 from personal exertion the rate will be 2¼ per cent. That is 6d. in the £1. No one will say that that is too much to ask any citizen of Australia to pay at a time like this. 
The increase upon the tax of last year is not, in the circumstances, an argument against the soundness of the proposal made this year. 
We thought it was, but none of us were able to prove it. We all got tangled up in the curves. 
I am inclined to agree with the honorable senator. The tax on an income of £500 from personal exertion would, under the Bill, be2½ per cent., or £12 10s. 
The tax on an income of £1,500 from personal exertion would be, under this proposal, £67 7s. 7d., or 4.4 per cent. On an income of £1,500 from property the tax, at the present rate, would be £92 15s., and under this Bill it would come to £117 3s. 9d. 
Yes, that is so. This taxation represents an increase upon the taxation proposed last year, and while the tax may be doubled on the smaller incomes, that is due to the deliberate act of Parliament in refusing to allow the exemption that was allowed last year. I feel sure that every member of the Parliament regrets the necessity for imposing this additional taxation at all. 
Let us consider what the tax would be in the case of the higher incomes. I find that, on an income of £4,000 derived from personal exertion and property, the tax would amount to 16½ and 13 per cent. Surely that will be considered a reasonable tax? I am afraid that this is not going to be the lastof taxation in Australia. 
The real point is that, in considering the previous income tax measure, there was a unanimous desire on the part of Parliament to grant as high an exemption as possible in the case of family men receiving from £156 to £500 a year. That was a very good thing to do, but we have to remember that we are not to-day proposing taxation for the carrying on of the ordinary government of the country, but to meet the expenses of the war. I believe that there is no citizen more willing to make some sacrifice for this purpose than is the family man receiving an income within the amounts I have mentioned. The only argument to suggest that the tax here proposed is not apportioned fairly is based upon the abolition, in connexion with this measure, of the exemption granted in the case of the smaller incomes last year. I wish to put on record a few figures to show what the proposed tax will amount to. Honorable senators may be interested to learn that, under this proposal, the tax upon an income of £600 derived from personal exertion would be at the rate of 2¾ per cent. If the income were derived from property, the rate would be 3 per cent. ; and if from personal exertion and property, 3 per cent. and 2¾ per cent. On an income of £700 from personal exertion, the rate would be 3 per cent. ; and from property, 4 per cent. On £800 from personal exertion, 3 per cent.; and from property, 4½ per cent. On £900 from personal exertion, 3¼ per cent. ; and from property, 5 per cent. On £1,000 from personal exertion, 3½ per cent. ; and from property,5½ per cent. On £1,500 from personal exertion, 4½ per cent. ; and from property, 7¾ per cent. On £2,000 from personal exertion, 5½ per cent. and from property, 9¾ per cent. On £3,000 from personal exertion,7½ per cent. ; and from property, 13½ per cent. On £4,000 from personal exertion,9½ per cent. ; and from property, 16½ per cent. On £5,000 from personal exertion,11¼ per cent. ; and from property, 19¼ per cent. On £6,000 from personal exertion, 13¼ per cent.; and from property, 21 per cent. On £7,000 from personal exertion, 15¼ per cent. ; and from property,22½ per cent. On £8,000 from personal exertion,17¼ per cent. ; and from property, 23½ per cent. The more honorable senators investigate the figures the more readily they will appreciate the fact that the taxation now proposed is much more scientific and equitable than any previous income tax that has been imposed. If, in Committee, honorable senators should require to know what the tax will be on a particular income, I shall be glad to supply the information. 
The percentages I have given were not stated in the press. The position is that, whilst this taxation would never be deliberately imposed without a strong reason, it is clear that we must have money to carry on the war. Every one knows that we are committed to war loans to the extent of £140,000,000. The interest on all this money must be found, and the Government have tried to distribute the responsibility of finding the money required to carry on the war equitably between the whole of the citizens. The proposal made has the indorsement of the Government, and has received the approval of another place. I hope that, in the circumstances, h onorable senators will permit clause 11 to go through. 
To meet the convenience of the Senate, I suspend the sitting until 4 o'clock p.m. 

 Sitting suspended from 11.31 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. 

It has been intimated to me that there is a general desire on the part of the Government and of honorable senators to conclude the business of the session as rapidly as possible, and, therefore, at the request of the Government and to meet the convenience of honorable senators, I have taken the liberty of having the bells rung halfanhour before the period for which the sitting was suspended. If, however, any honorable senator, either for himself or on behalf of another honorable senator, objects, I will not resume the chair till 4 o'clock. In the absence of any such objection the business will proceed. 
Ordinarily such a motion could not be moved without notice, but as our Standing Orders have been suspended to permit of this Bill being passed through all its stages without delay, it is in order. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Motion (by  Senator Lynch)  agreed to - 
That the Income Tax Assessment Bill be further considered in Committee forthwith. 

 In Committee: 

Clauses 12 to 14 agreed to. 
Clause 15 - 
Section twenty-eight of the principal Act is amended by adding at the end of sub-section (1) the following paragraph :  - " (a) in the case of a person who is not married, has no dependants, and is not an absentee, the total income from all source's in Australia amounts to the sum of One hundred pounds or upwards." 
I should like the Assistant Minister to explain the effect of the amendment of the principal Act which is proposed in this clause. 
The clause relates to single men resident in Australia who have no wives or relatives dependent on them, and fixes the exemption in their case at £100. 
Under the principal Act an exemption of £156 is granted in all cases. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 16 and 17 agreed to. 
Clause18 - 
Section 58 of the principal Act is amended by adding thereto the following sub-section :  - " (2) A prosecution in respect of an offence against paragraph (a) of sub-section (1) of this section may be commenced at any time." 
This clause provides that a prosecution may be instituted for an offence by any person against the provisions of section 58 of the principal Act at any time. 1 should like to know why there is no limitation of fame imposed in this connexion. If the principle that is now proposed be a good one, why is it not made applicable to all offences against the parent Act. Ordinarily, offences are the subject of prosecution only within a limited period. We all know that many of the members of our community frequently visit other parts of the Empire. Under this clause it is quite conceivable that a man may visit Canada, the United States of America, or England, and before his departure hence may quite inadvertently omit to discharge some obligation that has been cast upon him either by the Commonwealth or the State Parliament. He may leave Australia quite innocently and without attempting to defraud the revenue, and upon his return, twelve or fourteen months later, he may find himself immediately dragged before a Police Court. I ask the Assistant Minister to reconsider this clause. We are living on the edge of the world, and we are accustomed to visit other countries in order to pick up the best ideas prevailing there, with a view to making use of them upon our return here. 
The offence provided for in paragraph  a  of sub-section 1 of section 58 of the principal Act is that of failure to send in an income tax return. Under the Crimes Act a limit of twelve months is imposed within which a prosecution may take place. But the provision immediately under consideration is chiefly intended to apply to visitors who come to Australia, make a good deal of money here, and then leave our shores suddenly, although they may subsequently return. We know that prize-fighters, actors, and actresses do that, and sometimes it becomes necessary that we should follow them in order to collect the revenue which is due by them. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 19 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments. 
Motion (by  Senator Russell)  agreed to- 
That the Bill be recommitted for the purpose of considering a new clause to follow clause 10 of the Bill. 

 In Committee (Recommittal) : 
I move - 
That the following new clause be inserted to follow clause 10 :  - 
Section 19 of the principalAct is repealed and the following section inserted in its stead :  - " 19. (1) In the case of a person (other than a company, an absentee, or a person without a dependant) there shall be deducted, in addition to the sums set forth in the last preceding section, the sum of £156, less £5 for every £11 by which the income exceeds £156. 
When the total taxable income consists partly of income from personal exertion and partly of income from property the deduction under 'this section shall be apportioned pro  rata  between the income from each source. 
In the. case of a person (not being an absentee) without a dependant there shall be deducted, in addition to the sums set forth in the last preceding section, the sum of £100, less £1 for every £4 by which the income exceeds £100." 
I am grateful to honorable senators for having permitted me to secure a recommittal of the Bill, and I now wish to appeal to them to allow this clause to pass in its present form. I am confident that those who take the trouble to investigate its merits will find that the incidence of the proposed tax is most equitable. The responsibility of managing and financing Australia's share of the war rests on whatever Government is in power, and involves a question much bigger than the interests of any party, or Government, or individual member. After mature consideration and deliberation by all parties in the other House, the Bill was practically carried on the voices. 
No exception was taken to any part of clause 11. We can, therefore only judge the attitude of the House by its actions. Unless some improvement can be suggested, I would urge the Committee to accept the Bill, which the Government believe to be in the best interests of the country. I know there is very little time left for reconsideration before the Houses rise for Christmas, but we are particularly anxious that the money shall be collected, and if the clause is knocked out and the Bill dropped - I do not use that in any way as a threat - an exemption which we desire to give to another section of the people will be lost. I refer to the increase of the exemption of a family man from £13 to £26 for every child under sixteen. He is the man who is struggling to-day against the increase inthe cost of living, and honorable senators will recognise that that increased exemption is of great importance to him. Owing to the position of the war and our financial necessities, I urge the Committee to give their best consideration to this question, and to permit the clause to go through, if they feel it is at all possible, in order that we may carry on the government successfully during the recess. 
.- I take it that this is the old clause 11 which the Committee deliberately struck out this morning. 
That is just one of the points I wish to bring home to the Government. When the Committee reached the clause last night, I had no misapprehension as to the temper of the Committee regarding it. I therefore advised the Government to report progress, and assisted them in that direction in order that they might try to meet the "wishes of the Senate. This they failed to do, and this morning the Senate expressed its opinion by knocking the clause out. The same fate is in store for the clause now. I regret the Government have not brought down an amended clause which might have been acceptable. The increase of tax, in the opinion of a number of honorable senators, is too abrupt on mediumincomes running from £300 to £800, as compared with incomes from £1,500 upward. It was a simple matter for. the Government, having heard the discussion on the clause, to prepare an amendment to remove that objection, for it is a genuine objection. Honorable senators have reasonable grounds to object to a clause which will increase the income tax by 100 per cent. on the small man, and by only 25 per cent. on the more wealthy man. Personally, I had very good grounds for complaint, because I was given to understand by  Senator Pearce  before he left for Western Australia that the Bill was not coming on before Christmas. I hope the Government will, even now, introduce a provision more acceptable to this and another place. Otherwise it seems certain that the clause will meet the same fate as it met this morning, because I have seen no indication that any honorable senator has changed his mind on the subject. 
It is possible that in the course of the discussion which may follow the action taken by the Senate, some people may seek to throw a measure of responsi bility on this Chamber for any consequences that may ensue. I wish to place on record that this Chamber is not at all responsible for the position in which we find ourselves now. The measure came to us at quarter-past 10 o'clock last night, and no one with any knowledge of parliamentary procedure, or of this Bill, can pretend that that was affording this Chamber a fair and reasonable opportunity of considering its provisions. We have for years suffered from the chronic and pernicious habit of Governments, irrespective of their party complexion, and also of the other House, thinking that at. the last moment of the session they can throw a heap of complicated legislation at our heads, expecting it to be rushed through, and afterwards infer that if we do not comply with their wishes the responsibility of holding that legislation up must rest with us. I have always protested against that view, and direct attention to the fact that we have not had a sufficient opportunity of considering this Bill. We have been told by the Minister that practically it is a case of the whole Bill or none at all. I ask him to reconsider that position. The determination by a strong majority in this chamber was clear. The Senate showed itself resolutely opposed to clause 11. If the Minister is equally determined to insist on it, then in view of the period in which we stand there is a serious prospect of the Bill standing over until we meet again. That would be a public disability, and I, therefore, suggest to the Minister, and for the consideration of my fellow senators, that, in the circumstances, and not because we approve of any compromise, we should, as practical men, try to find a  via media  to meet a difficulty which is not of our creating. To do that I suggest - but will not move at this juncture, because I do not want to move if the Senate is against me - that the amount of exemption, instead of evaporating at the rate of £5 for every £11 by which the income exceeds £156, shall evaporate at the rate of £5 for every £20. I understand, after consulting the officers of the Department, that that is half way between this clause and the present law. 
I am told that it is half way, but I have not studied the mysteries of those mathematical curves about which we hear so much, and which, 1 venture to think, have done more to confuse legislation and legislators than anything else. 
The honorable senator is quite right. I shall not move the amendment I have suggested, if the Committee has made up its mind to stand by its original determination. 
I hope  Senator Millen  will not move the amendment he has suggested. The position is very clear. The measure came to us at 10.15 last night, and we were asked to pass it, so to speak, in a few moments. Another place had had it before them for some time, although, perhaps, actually not under discussion for long, and to ask the Senate in a few moments to pass a taxing measure of this far-reaching importance was, in the vernacular, " over the odds." In speaking to this clause last night, more than once I spoke, perhaps, somewhat strongly, but I still feel strongly about it. The whole purpose of this measure is to increase the amount of income tax. We were told that the purpose of the Bill, if effected, would result in 25 per cent. more revenue coming into the Treasury through the tax than previously. We find, however, that by clause 11 those earning incomes from personal exertion from about £300 to £700 would pay, in many instances, 112 per cent. more than they did previously, while those receiving incomes from about £1,000 up to £3,000 or £4,000 would pay 10 per cent., 12 per cent., 15 per cent., and up to 30 per cent. more, with the average result that 25 per cent. more revenue would be received. But the people of the middle class, those who have constantly to make sacrifices to bring up and educate their children, and place them in life, are asked to pay even up to 120 per cent. more than they paid last year. Is that fair, reasonable, or equitable? The Senate agreed this morning that it was not. The clause was negatived, and immediately the 
 Minister reported progress. Last night, when the clause was under discussion, I voted against the motion of the Minister to report progress, a thing which I have never done before, although I have been in the Senate since the beginning of its sittings. I did so last night because I felt that we could finish the Bill, with the excision of this clause, in another few minutes. 
There was no need to do so. The remaining clauses of the Bill would have been passed very quickly, and it was comparatively early in the evening. I voted against the reporting of progress then because I believed that the Minister had, in a fit of pique, taken the stand that he was going to throw the Bill under the table. 
We were ready to strike out the clause, and the remaining clauses would have gone through faster than they have done this afternoon. The Bill could then have gone back to another place, and we need not have met here until 4 o'clock this afternoon. We met at 11 o'clock this morning, and the Senate, by seventeen to nine, threw out the clause. Before we met the Government could have reconsidered the position, but all they did was to bring the measure up again. As soon as the clause was defeated the Government reported progress, and for all we knew the measure might have been thrown into the waste-paper basket. We had to wait until another place met at 2.30 this afternoon, and now we are brought here at this hour, a little earlier than 4 o'clock, for the convenience of honorable senators, and the Government ask us to reinstate the clause which we threw out by such a large majority. I hope honorable senators will adhere to their previous attitude. If any amendment is to be moved it should coma from the Government. They had plenty of time to prepare one between last night and now, but they brought down no amendment at all, and I hope  Senator Millen  will not take upon himself the responsibility of preparing one, because that responsibility rests upon the Government, which moved for the reporting of progress on two occasions. 
I would point out to the Senate the necessity that exists for a thorough understanding of the proper standards to be adopted in regard to income taxation. If judged by the standards of the previous measure, it would certainly appear that some sections of the taxpayers are being treated unjustly, but that is not to say that the standard in the first Income Tax Act was a correct one. If that standard was faulty, there is no reason why, in the present measure, we should adhere to a standard that is not in mathematical accord with right principles. I would urge  Senator Keating  to study the revised standard proposed in this Bill. If he will do so he will find that the principle of taxation laid down by economists, from John Stuart Mill to the present time, and the essence of which is that taxation to be just must be in proportion to the ability of the person to bear it, has been observed in this proposal. The scheme starts from a definite point, a taxable income of £100 in the case of a single man without dependants, and £156 in the case of a married man, or a single man with dependants; and it proceeds by regular gradations to the highest incomes receivable in this country. The percentage of the tax to taxable income proceeds by gradations from per cent to 20 per cent. It is on the principle of a ramp, and if  Senator Keating  places a straight edge along the incline plane, I defy him to discover any depression or hollow in the scale of taxation. It is all very well for him to talk about convex and concave curves. The measure is an attempt to straighten the line of taxation, and deal fairly with all taxpayers. 
If  Senator Keating  reconsiders the clause he will find that throughout an unvarying line has been maintained, without any departure from the general principle laid down. In the case of a person receiving £200 of taxable income the percentage increase is only per cent. That is the starting point, and then it increases to . 1¼ per cent. in the case of a man with a taxable income of £300, to 2½ per cent. on a taxable income of £500, to3 per cent. on a taxable income of £700, and so on. The whole purpose of the Bill is to lay the burden of taxation equitably upon the shoulders of those who can bear it, and I invite every staunch Democrat to support the clause. If  Senator Keating's  argument has any value at all it proves that a number of taxpayers, enclosed between the two points I have mentioned, have not been overtaxed in the past, but that they have escaped taxation. It indicates that hitherto, instead of paying enough in the way of income tax, they have been paying too little, and because they are now called upon to pay their share,  Senator Keating  raises an objection. In support of whatI am saying, I might furnish the Senate with a homely illustration, which, while it may not be on all fours with  Senator Keating's  argument, will demonstrate the fallacy of his contention. I remember that, in the daysof my boyhood, a farm was worked by two boys, the elder of whom was about eighteen years of age, and the younger twelve or thirteen. In those days eggs counted for something, each egg being worth1d., and it was the mother's custom to give the elder boy two eggs, and, the younger one egg each day. But  as time went on, and the younger boy became stronger, and was able to take on his shoulders a larger share of the farm work, the mother in her kindness, and with a sense of equity, advanced the younger boy's allowance to Wo eggs. The elder boy then suddenly found that he had a grievance, and thought that instead of only getting two eggs as formerly he should get four. 
It was never heard before here, and it is a homely illustration to show that when a person is so situated that justice is done to another, he frequently fancies he has a grievance. In the case to which I refer, the elder boy imagined that because the younger was given the same allowance, he ought to get 100 per cent. more. 
The illustration I have quoted bears upon the case set up by  Senator Keating,  who argues that because certain persons escaped taxation in the past, now that they are raised to their correct position they have reason to complain, instead of congratulating themselves that they had escaped their full share of taxation in the past.  Senator Keating's  argument exhausts itself if carried to its logical conclusion, because a person who under the former scheme escaped taxation and now has to pay, cannot measure his proportion of increase by any arithmetical calculation. However, 
I maintain that this measure has been based on a truly scientific basis, and it contains noneof the inequalities attributed to it. 
I am disposed in general, and in particular, to assist the Government by voting for their financial proposals; but this measure rushed upon the Senate so suddenly seems, upon a superficial examination, to contain inequitable provisions that will justify any chamber of review holding it up for the time being. This is not an imaginary tax to be paid in imaginary bank notes, and a careful reading of the comparative tables published in this morning's press will bring any reasoning senator to the conclusion that he would be hard put to it to justify an increased imposition representing in pounds, shillings, and pence over 100 per cent. on certain fixed incomes, while allowing persons in receipt of incomes running into thousands of pounds to escape with practically the same addition of extra taxation. 
I understand that this is a graduated tax, but when we find that a man with an income of £600 per annum more than another has to pay practically only the same amount in additional taxation, I think we would be avoiding our responsibilities as members of a chamber of review if we did not hold the measure up for further investigation. Judging from the remarks made by the Minister for Works, the existing Income Tax Assessment Act contains an immoral principle. That measure is being reviewed for the first time, and I do not think we should attempt to impose on one section of the community taxation of the character demonstrated by the tables published in the press this morning. There can be no humiliation involved by a reconsideration of the measure. 
Let the Minister look at the tables, then, and he will find that a man with a taxable income of £1,000 a year has to pay just about the same additional amount of taxation as a man in receipt of £600 a year. 
What did those taxpayers pay under the last Act? That is the question. 
I am disposed to help the Government if possible, and if they are wise they will reconsider the measure, taking heed of the fact that the possessors of a certain amount of income - notwithstanding that we have been told that the tax is increased by only 25 per cent. - are being called upon to bear increases of over 100 per cent. 
I ask leave to withdraw my amendment to reinsert clause 11. 
Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
I move--- 
That the following new clause be inserted, to follow clause 10: - 
Section nineteen of the principal Act is repealed and the following section inserted in its stead :  - " 19. - (1) In the case of a person (other than a company, an absentee, or a person without a dependant) there shall be deducted, in addition to the sums set forth in the last preceding section, the following sums :  - 
In respect of the income derived from personal exertion, the sum of One hundred and fifty-six pounds less One pound for every Pour pounds by which the incomeexceeds One hundred and fifty-six pounds; (b)In respect of income derived from property, the sum of One hundred and fifty-six pounds less Five pounds for every Eleven pounds by which the income  exceeds One hundred andfifty-six pounds. 
When the total taxable income consists partly of income from personal exertion and partly of income from property the deduction under this section shall be apportioned  pro rata  between the income from each source. 
In the ease of a person (not being an absentee) without a dependant there shall be deducted, in addition to the sums set forth in the last preceding section, the sum of  One hundred pounds less One pound for every Four pounds by which the income exceeds One hundred pounds." 
It practically means that the exemption will disappear at £780 in the case of income from personal exertion, and at £500 in the case of income derived from property. 
I understand that it is just about half way. I trust that the new provision will be accepted. Of course every Government is very keen about preserving in their entirety taxation measures. I hope that honorable senators will see their way to accept this proposal, and permit us to get away in peace. 
I hope that the Committee will not accept the proposed new clause. I think that the opportunity for the Minister to propose an amendment on an important matter like this has gone. It should have been done last night or this morning, but if it is done now at least honorable senators should have had an opportunity of seeing the amendment in print.. 
That reminds me of some of the remarks made by the Minister for Works a few moments ago, when he asked the Committee to reinstate the original clause. I do not wish to take up the time of the Committee by quoting what I said on the original measure in November of last year. But, briefly stated, I said that there was not a member of the Senate, and not a member of the Government, who understood the significance, the value, or the effect of the particular curve which was adopted as the mathematical indication of the right ratio of taxation for each individual. We were told then that this was a parabolic curve which had been drawn by  Mr. Knibbs,  and that it was so exact, so mathematically and scientifically accurate, that the income of everybody would be drawn upon in the most just and equitable proportions. I said that I accepted the statement of the Government, although I wag not able to check it. I can lay some little pretension to certain mathematical knowledge, but I could not understand exactly what was meant by this parabolic curve which  Mr. Knibbs  had drawn. But now the present Government come down, and instead of it being a parabolic curve it seems to have been a paralytic curve. Instead of this curve being what  Senator Lynch  spoke of, one that nobody can find any variation in, it seems to me that it is, according to this proposal, a curve which is being modified by having a number of kinks put into it. The kinks are to become concave in so far as the curve applies to individuals in the community who are receiving an income of from £300 to £800, but it is to become convex when it applies to incomes of larger amounts.. What is the effect of this new proposal ? I venture to say that  Senator Russell  is not prepared, as Minister, to give us an exact definition of the results of the amendment. We complained last night because we had not clean prints of this Bill. The  President  suspended the sitting until 10.45 o'clock, until we could be provided with clean prints. As a matter of fact, a supply was sent along, and the sitting was resumed at 10.15 o'clock. We are now presented with an amendment which touches the whole root of this measure, namely, the increase in the tax, and who is to bear it. We are asked to consider the proposal without a copy of it having been put in the hands of a single senator. I hope that honorable senators will adhere to their decision, and decline, at this late hour, on a suggestion from any Minister or any Government to pass an opinion on an amendment in the circumstances in which we are asked to act now. I did it last year; but I found that I fell in. I do not want to fall in again. I am not going to vote for any amendment which has not been circulated amongst honorable senators. 
I wish to remind honorable senators of where we stand, and the fact that we have to take into consideration something more than the logic or the theoretical accuracy of any particular proposal. This amendment is frankly a compromise submitted by the Government. It puts the point at which the exemption will disappear approximately half-way between where the Committee wanted and where it is under the existing law. It will disappear under the new proposal at about £780, whereas it disappears under the existing law at £1,020, and would have disappeared under the proposal of last night at £500. We would be foolish if we overlooked the fact that we now have a reasonable opportunity to get that compromise. If we adopt the proposal we may assume that the Government will father it and invite the support of another House to it ; but if we reject this compromise there is a great probability that we may lose everything. The old fable of the boy with the pitcher of nuts is one which I hold up as being as much entitled to consideration as  Senator Lynch's  story about the eggs. I ask the Committee to bear in mind that we can get a very substantial portion of that for which we fought, and, having got it, we ought not to risk it by endeavouring to get more. 
I voted against the Government this morning on clause 11, realizing that it was asking of us a great deal more than we were led to expect before the Bill was sent here. I recognise that the compromise which has been placed before the Committee by the Government is a reasonable one, and I can now see my way clear to vote for their proposal. I trust that honorable senators will realize that the Government are in need of funds, and that this proposal is a fair compromise between the clause we knocked out and what we expected. Therefore, I ask them to go with the Government, and vote for the amendment. 
I think that the Government will be well advised if they withdraw this amendment, because, whilst there was much doubt last night as to the meaning of certain provisions of the Bill, I do not think that any one is too clear, or too well satisfied, that the amendment just submitted will carry out that which  Senator Russell  has stated. We know that once we insert an amendment in a Bill, especially a machinery measure for taxation purposes, the alteration sometimes materially affects other provisions. Last night the discussion arose because the Committee were satisfied that there were unfair disparities; that the proposals would affect some sections of the community, and those sections, too, who are not in receipt of large incomes, to a much greater extent than they would affect those in receipt of very large incomes. I have no desire to occupy much more time. It was not with any desire to block the Government in their efforts to get money for the furtherance of the war, to stand up against the Government vote for opposition purposes, but to do what I considered a fair thing, that I raised this question last night. The Government can take my assurance for that. If I want to fight the Government, I will fight them in another way. I think that, in the circumstances, the Government would serve their purpose better if they were to withdraw this amendment and bring forward the Bill for consideration at another period in the session. 
So far as the discussion has gone, I am sure that no one can find any fault with its tone. 
Do you think that I will sit down because of that remark? 
I can assure the honorable senator that it is the very language which would encourage me to stand up. 
Very good. I will take the honorable senator at his word. I will go on with my remarks. It is quite evident that the , opposition is coming from the corner - from the very individuals who were howling for a big income tax. Now that those honorable senators find that the income tax proposed will hit them a little harder than they expected, it meets with their opposition, and they are anxious to turn down the proposal by the Government. Tax the other fellow is the cry now; but for heaven's sake don't touch my salary ! It is because I do not desire that any honorable senator should miss his train, and out of no consideration to honorable senators in the corner, that I resume my seat. 
As I assume that we have completed what may be termed the formal business of the Senate, before we adjourn for the holidays, I should like, following an old-established, and, I think, commendable custom, to extend on behalf of honorable senators, first of all to you, sir, our good wishes for the festive season and the new year. I feel that I may say that as another year has passed by you have added to the opinion which honorable senators had formed of your fairness and firmness, your desire at all times to assist them, and the success with which you have discharged your not always easy or pleasant duties. I wish, on behalf of honorable senators not attached to the Government, to extend to the Govern ment and their supporters our best wishes. During the last few weeks we have had some changes here, but I hope that they did not extend to any alteration of the good personal feeling that has always hitherto marked the relations between one member of the Senate and another. I should like, also, to include in these references the officers of the Senate. We have been again under obligations to them, and I am sure that honorable senators generally wouldnot like to close the session without some recognition of those obligations. 
May I, sir, join with  Senator Millen  in the good wishes he has expressed to you and yours for a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. May I express the hope that the new year will bring an honorable peace. I wish to extend to the Governmentquite heartily and freely our best wishes for their enjoyment of the Christmas season, and also a happy and prosperous New Year. To the other members of the Senate I wish the compliments of the season, and to the officers, who by their efficiency and ability, have made our work so much lighter than it would otherwise be, I extend the congratulations of the party to which I belong. I hope that when we meet again in the New Year it will be under conditions satisfactory to us all. 
I wish to reciprocate to the full the kindly feelings expressed by the Leaders of the two Oppositions. It is quite clear that the present Government is well opposed, and if a Government ever succeeded by opposition, the present Administration should have a really prosperous term of office. This being the time when peace and good-will should reign amongst men, I wish to convey through you, sir, to Senators Millen and Gardiner and their followers, as well as to the supporters of the Government, my heartiest good feelings on the present occasion. Those of us who have homes to go to are about to retire to them to enjoy the festive season. As we cannot enjoy peace and good-will ourselves unless we are at peace with our fellow-men, I want to assure those who have trespassed against me that I am only too willing to forgive their trespasses, so long as they forgive me mine. I am well aware that in carrying on the work of Parliament  persons are liable to become heated, though, for myself, I never could understand the reason why any man should become heated. As a close student and follower of the stoical school, I never allow myself to become ruffled. It is for that reason I can sympathize so heartily with those who during temporary ebullitions of feeling permit themselves sometimes the use of a little extravagant language. 
I am sure that  Senator McKissock  does not mean anything of the kind. I am satisfied that, in common with other members of the Senate, the honorable senator does not permit politics to dictate his friendships. For my own part, I can claim that I have never allowed politics to dictate my friendships. We are now about to enter upon a season of peace and good-will, and we cannot be ready in mind or in heart to do so unless we are prepared to forgive and be forgiven. I have already undertaken to forgive those who have trespassed against me; if they forgive me in return. I wish, sir, to confirm everything that has been said about yourself. As a humble member of the Senate, I have always enjoyed your advice, and have obeyed your ruling implicitly,, for the reason that I found it better and more profitable to obey it than to do otherwise. I wish to convey to the officers of the House, through you, my own appreciation and the appreciation of every member of the Senate, for their uniform courtesy in attending to the wants of members of the Senate generally. On behalf of my absent colleague,  Senator Pearce,  to whom, I am sure, the greetings of honorable senators are extended, I have pleasure in wishing every member of the Senate, and of the staff, my heartiest good wishes for the festive season. I hope that when we meet in this chamber next year the dove of peace will have reached Australia's shores, and that, instead of a terrible war raging, we shall have, within the next twelve months, a conclusive peace, with victory resting upon the banner of the Allies. 
Before the close of the session, and of this discussion, I desire, on my own behalf, on behalf of every member of the Senate, and of the officers in the service of the Senate, to reciprocate the kindly good wishes expressed by the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Millen,  the Leader of the Official Labour party,  Senator Gardiner,  and the Minister for Works, on behalf of the Government. We at times have heated debates here. Having strong convictions occasionally, we speak strongly; but I think I can say for myself and for other members of the Senate that the most generous and kindly feeling always exists amongst us, and especially at this festive season. T desire on my own behalf, as well as on behalf of honorable senators generally, to extend our cordial good wishes to the officers and servants .of the Senate. They have been exceedingly courteous and kind to honorable senators generally, and have done all that could be expected of them to facilitate and make pleasant the performance of our' duties. The members of the  Hansard  Staff are, I think, particularly to be congratulated upon the way in which they have always done, not only justice, but often more than justice, to the speeches made by honorable senators. For myself, I desire to express my deep appreciation of the uniform kindness, courtesy, and consideration I have always received from every honorable .senator, which has rendered the discharge of my duties as  President  more of a pleasure than a task. 
I regret more than I can say that I have to inform the Senate that one, who has ever since the inception of the Senate been a valued officer of this Chamber - I refer to the  Clerk  of the Senate,  Mr. C.  B. Boydell - has found it necessary, owing to failing health, to make arrangements for hia retirement. Some years ago,  Mr. Boydell  was stricken down with a very severe illness, so severe, that many of us feared that he would be unable to return to. his duties. However, an  extended  rest had the effect of restoring him, if not fully, at least partially, to health, and since then he has been able to give many years of good and valued service to the Senate. He is a gentleman to whom we all owe a deep debt of gratitude. He has always been at the service of honorable senators. Unfortunately,  he  finds himself stricken down with his old complaint, and it has become necessary for him to take an extended rest. As  he  has reached the retiring age, and there is not much possibility of 'him being able  to  take up his duties again, he has resolved to retire. In retiring he has sent me the following letter, which I desire to read to the Senate. 
 I wish to draw attention once more to the fares on the steam-ships plying on the Australian coast. A large increase has been brought about on steamers running between Melbourne and Western Australia. The matter affects the working class in Western Australia, perhaps, to a greater extent than any other section of the community, and it is time a remedy was found for it. During the Christmas holidays, a large number of people, mostly of the working class, leave Western Australia for the eastern States, and the substantial increase that has taken place in the fares means a considerable tax on them. The change has been brought about by the abolition of  the return-ticket system, which has been in vogue, to my knowledge, for the last twenty years. By that means, £4 has been added to the fare. Thus, where it formerly cost £14 return from here to the West, it now costs £18 on the Australian coastal boats. On the last trip of the  Zealandia,  belonging to theHuddart Parker Company, it was estimated that the increase meant that something like £1,000 was collected from the passengers on the one trip more than the company would have been entitled to charge under the old system. If the increased price of coal is pleaded, it can be pointed out that that would not amount to much more than £150; but the company, instead of collecting £150 extra, which we would, perhaps, not be justified in cavilling at, extracted £1,000 from the passengers. The people travelling between here and the West have, therefore, a substantial grievance. I understand that the Government have power, under the War Precautions Act, to control these matters, and I hope they will prevent this extortion going on.  I can assure them that, knowing they have the power, the people will look to them to do so. The Minister has on several occasions asked for particular instances of the kind, and I therefore quote this as a specific case to show that it is time the Government interfered. I understand the same thing obtains right round the coast. 
Even if the Government railways nave done so, that does not justify the shipping companies in doing it. Two blacks do not make a white. 
.- Will the Minister for Works state if any progress has been made in the negotiations between the Government of Western Australia and the Commonwealth Government regarding the continuation of thetrans- Australian railway from Kalgoorlie to Fremantle? Although there has not been much time for anything more definite to have taken place, I would suggest that now the Government have a few weeks to spare they should raise that very important question. 
The gap dividing the eastern and western railheads is rapidly being shortened, and we hope it will soon be closed. It is therefore important to the Commonwealth to make arrangements sothat there may be no break for transhipment at Kalgoorlie in the journey from Port Augusta to Fremantle. That line is just as important to the Commonwealth, from a defence point of view, as the recruiting to which  Senator Guthrie  referred by interjection. 
I am speaking of the present. The continuity of the railway, and the question of who shall bear the cost, has to be decided. When' the Minister is replying, I shall be glad if he will inform the Senate that the negotiations will be continued, in orderthat when we re-assemble we may learn from the Government their intention in regard to the continuity of the transcontinental railway from Port Augusta to Fremantle. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.33 till 8 p.m. 

Before the House adjourns I wish to refer to a matter of very great importance to a number of our pioneers in Central Australia, and to the Commonwealth. To some extent we are suffering from a scarcity of meat, beef being now at a high price, partly on account of the recent drought, and partly because of the restrictions on the export of cattle by one of the States. However, it is not upon beef that I desire to talk, so much as upon horse flesh, which is a staple article of meat diet in France, Belgium, and, I believe, in Germany also. A cablegram published recently in the press stated that the price of horse flesh in Germany had reached 3s. per lb. Now in the centre of Australia a large number of stock-raisers breed horses for the Indian market. They have to travel their stock long distances to reach the railway, and thus entrain the horses for the Adelaide market, where, as a rule, the Indian buyers operate. The Indian buyers will only take the best horses and no mares, and the local buyers, knowing that the owners cannot afford to send the stock back to the stations, take advantage of the position, and offer only a low price for horses not fit for export, and for mares. Thousands of mares of rather an inferior breed, and termed " culls," in good condition are running on these stations, and recently, one of the owners requested me to ascertain if there was any objection to the export of these inferior horses and mares as food for the Belgian and French people. I made inquiries, and I found that there seemed to be an objection on the part of the Customs authorities to allow this to be done, though I pointed out that these horse-owners did not ask the Commonwealth Government or the Customs authorities to do anything except to give them permission to export the horse flesh, which would be in great demand in France and Belgium, and would assist materially in feeding the people of those countries. I was, however, met. with the objection that there was a prohibition against the export of horse flesh. The owners of these inferior horses and mares have to be satisfied with about £3 per head in the Adelaide market, whereas, if they could be exported as horse flesh they would probably return to the owners from £8 to £10 per head. It would be a good thing for Australia if we could export in this way 10,000 head of inferior stock at a profit of £8 or £10, because additional revenue would be received, and, incidentally, the breed of horses in Central Australia improved, because if the Customs Department would only allow the horse-owners to export the culls, only mares of a superior type would be left to breed from, with the result that a more uniform standard of remounts for India, and a better class of horses for use in Australia, would be raised. 
Horse flesh is their staple article of meat diet, and I understand that the people prefer it to beef. I hope the Government will give this matter careful consideration, and that if there is only a sentimental objection against the export of horse flesh, because Australians do not eat it themselves, the restriction will be removed. 
I was not aware of that, but I do say that the Government at a time like this, and for the reasons I have stated, should not continue the restriction on the export of horse flesh to the countries named. I have been assured by two of the owners that unless they can get permission to export horse flesh they will have to destroy a verylarge number of mares on their property ; thus there will be a loss of money and a waste of a staple article of meat diet to the people of allied countries, simply because the Customs authorities have some silly sentimental objection to the idea of exporting horse flesh to other countries. 
That has nothing to do with the request I am making. The people concerned will see to the shipping and the marketing of the horse flesh. They are perfectly willing that the Government authorities should supervise the killing and export of the meat, and that there should be an examination similar to that over beef for export. They do not ask the Commonwealth Government to do anything except give permission to export horse flesh; and this course, I maintain, would be of very great advantage to Australia. We have a good name all over the world for the type of horses we breed. Recently letters were received from Egypt, where Australian horses were sent, stating that they were far superior to either the English or Canadian horses. "We have magnificent country in Australia on which we could breed hundreds of thousands of horses, and members of the Senate will remember that ten years ago I urged upon the Government the desirability of so utilizing the vast areas in the centre of Australia. I pointed out then that we had millions of acres of land eminently suited for horsebreedingstations. Horses bred in that country have better feet and better legs than those raised in any other part of Australia. I have urged the importance of horse-breeding upon at least three Governments of the Commonwealth, and I have pointed out that at the various telegraph stations on the overland line , a depot could be established under the control of one or two white men who understood the business, leaving native labour to do all the rest of the work, so that the Government, at the cost of a few hundred pounds, could breed thousands of splendid animals. I hope the Government will give this matter their favorable consideration. 
.- A subject in a way allied to the matter raised by  Senator Story  has for some time given me considerable thought. For a long time I have held the opinion that the various State Governments of Australia should have endeavoured by legislation to prevent the slaughter of female sheep and cattle. If action is hot taken in this direction, we shall be face to fade with the difficulty that meat, which is so largely used by Australians, will have become too dear for the Australian wage-earner to buy. I think that to a great extent it might be remedied if the State Governments would, by legislation, prevent the indiscriminate slaughter of female stock. But the matter touches the powers of the Federal Government to some extent. I take it that under the War Precautions Act, while the war continues at least, it is within the province of the Federal Government to exercise some control. When we consider that within a year or so, if the war ends, as we hope it will, all the countries engaged in the war whose stocks have been depleted to an enormous extent will be looking to the stock-raising countries of the world to replenish their flocks and herds, we are brought face to face with the fact that a gradually increased demand for meat supplies will arise.  Australia will share in that increased demand. All parts of America, which at present are supplying other portions of the world with tinned meats, will also be brought under that levy. This leads to the inevitable conclusion that the meat supplies of Australia will become scarcer and scarcer, and consequently dearer and dearer. That being so, I ask the representative of the Government - if they think it is not worth while to move under the War Precautions Act, because the war may not last long, and we all hope thatit will not - to immediately get into direct communication with the State Governments and ask them to take some steps in this direction. The constant slaughter of female stock has been going on for some years, since the flocks and herds of Australia were largely depleted owing to the drought. You can travel through any part of Australia and see splendid feed everywhere, but the paddocks containing the grass are almost empty. In many parts of Australia feed is available, but there are no stock to consume it. 
It is attributable to the drought to some extent. But it is also attributable to the fact that the State Governments are not taking action to remedy the disastrous results of the drought. It seems to those who have made a study of this question that there is only one way to do that, and that is to try to conserve the female stock. I suggest to the Government, this being a big. national question, which is well worthy of their attention, that they might get into instant communication if they; in their wisdom, think it desirable, with the State Governments, to see whether something could not be done at once, because, if it is not done, within a year or two in Aus- , tralia, meat will be 50 per cent., if not 100 per cent., dearer than it is, and heaven knows that it is dear enough today for the man who is not getting much wages. I think that this question might well occupy the consideration of the Government even during the recess. 
.- We are all in agreement with the sentiment expressed by  Senator O'Keefe  that it is the duty of the Government to see that unnecessary waste does not take place as regards stock products. It is all very well for a member of Parliament to tell the producers what they ought to do, but it is a very different thing indeed if a man is a producer himself, and is trying to do the best that he can, not only to provide stock for the people of Australia, but also a means whereby he can earn a livelihood. It is rather amazing to a man who knows something about the conditions under which the farmer or the dairyman, or the stock-producer lives to-day----- 
We require his produce at the minimum ; but we want the wages that he shall pay to his employees at the maximum. So we are gradually closing down upon people who are engaged in this industry. 
Honorable senators are confined largely to their experience in their own States. In this Senate, which ought to be a Chamber representing the whole of the interests of Australia, we forget too frequently that we are not here as the representatives of certain sections in our own States. 
I am not speaking for myself. I am speaking from the honorable senator's stand-point; and I want to tell the Senate that if there is a chance of him securing anything for the benefit of his own State he is not backward in asking that the concession or privilege shall be. extended to it. 
I am not referring to the question in that way. We are here to represent the whole of the States. We are f ar and away too much inclined to sink the interests of Australia, and, as it were, to push forward the interests of our particular State. I do not desire to encourage that. We, as members of this Chamber, ought to do the best we can in the interests of the whole of Australia. For that reason I rose to point out to my honorable friend that in our various industries and callings we are anxious to do the best we can for the development of industries in Australia and the interests of the whole of the community. I know that  Senator O'Keefe  is just as anxious to advance the best interests of Australia as I am. We are not anxious that the interests of Tasmania should be pushed forward, or that the interests of South Australia or Western Australia, or Queensland or Victoria, should be held back because of the interests of one State. I am anxious to see the consideration for State interests in the Senate absolutely wiped out. This is the one Chamber where we should drop the matter of State interests, and obliterate all State boundaries. I am of opinion that no member of the Senate should put foremost the interests of his State for the time being. I hope that in matters of this kind the members of the 
Senate will, as I am sure they can, sink all their State interests, and that the Parliament will use its best endeavours to forward the interests of the whole of the Commonwealth, irrespective of what honorable senators may think will be best for the interests of their own States. 
Earlier in the day I gave notice of a question which I desire now to put to the Minister for Works as representing the Government in the Senate. I think it was in 1903 that the question of uniform navigation laws was first considered by the Commonwealth Parliament. It was then understood that the Federal Parliament had full powers under the Constitution to deal with the question of navigation. A Royal Commission was appointed, and investigated the whole of the navigation laws of Australia. It was found that there were six separate navigation laws, differing in many particulars, in force in the Commonwealth. The Royal Commission reported that uniformity was advisable, and, after a very stormy passage, extending through several sessions, a measure was passed which was reserved for  His  Majesty's assent. The Royal assent was given in October, 1913, ten years after the Bill was first introduced in this Parliament. It contained a provision under which it could be brought into force only by the issue of two proclamations, one for the general provisions of the Bill, and another for those dealing with the coastal trade. I think that the time has arrived when the Government should issue both those proclamations. I invite honorable senators to consider the awkward position in which persons engaged in shipping are placed as a result of existing conditions. A. matter which may be quite unimportant cannot be settled without consulting six separateState Acts passed in Australia, in addition to the Imperial Navigation Act. I do not claim that the Navigation Act passed by this Parliament is a perfect measure. 
I tried to, but I was foiled in some of my endeavours to do so. I say that, while it is not a perfect measure, it is in advance of any navigation law in the world to-day. But its operation has been held up now for three and a half years. 
It was not mine, but I assisted to pass it, and received a great deal of assistance from others on both sides in this Parliament. I say that the time is now rotten-ripe for the proclamation of the Act. Some persons may say that, so far as the proclamation of the coastal provisions of the Act is concerned, there is little or no need for them to-day, since we have caged up Germany, the one enemy whose control of the whole of our coastal trade we feared at the time the Navigation Act was under the consideration of this Parliament. But another Power, whose entry into our trade is nearly as serious a matter, has taken the place of Germany. We now have a great many Japanese ships trading along our coast. I impress upon the Government the absolute necessity of issuing the proclamations bringing the Navigation Act into force, in the interests of the trade  and commerce of the Commonwealth, and in the interests of those who have to go to sea. Honorable senators must take into consideration the fact that the men employed in the mercantile marine are taking to-day as great, if not greater, risks than are the soldiers who go to the front. They *re going into the war zone, and risking the dangers of mines and torpedoes. Still, they are neither naval nor military men, they are merely mercantile men. They are taking all these risks in the interests of the trade and commerce of Australia and of the Empire. 
Without claim-' ing credit for it; without brass buttons; without uniforms; and without even a badge to show that they are doing service for the country, since the right to wear such a badge was absolutely refused to them. I ask the Government to recognise the service of these men by bringing into operation a law under which they will know where they are. I have no desire now to enter into a discussion of conscription and anti-conscription, but I wish to remind honorable' senators that, some few months ago, before  Mr. Hughes  returned from the Old Country, a. number of men who had volunteered . for service in our Naval Reserve were pressganged into the mercantile marine service. This was done by men who to-day com plain that an attempt was made to enforce conscription upon us. Messrs. Tudor, Higgs, and King O'Malley, who got out of the last Government, professedly because the Prime Minister recommended conscription, consented, while members of that Government, that these volunteers of the Naval Reserve should be forced to enter a certain ship under section 9 of the Naval Discipline Act. This was before  Mr. Hughes  had returned from the Old Country. One of the great leaders of the anti-conscriptionist movement, when I consulted him professionally to find out whether these men could resist going in the vessel, told me, and he put it in writing, that it was impossible for these men to resist, because they were volunteers, and in the naval service, and, under the War Precautions Act, they would have to do whatever the Government said they were to do. 
The point I raised was that the men who were pressed aboard this vessel were not unionists. I raised the objection that in this case the Government were press-ganging men who were non-unionists. -I did not raise the conscription question. Here was a Government in power, pledged to preference to unionists; and they brought the Naval Discipline Act into force to compel these non-unionists, some of whom were schoolmasters who had joined the Naval Forces, to go on board and fire the furnaces of a certain ship. Honorable senators will see from this that the Commonwealth was committed to conscription before ever  Mr. Hughes  arrived from the Old Country. 
What I objected to was that non-unionists should be put on board that ship to take the place of unionists.  Senator Blakey  knows that that is what I objected to. 
I asked the Government to refer the matter in dispute to  Mr. Justice  Higgins, but I was told that they would not do so, and were going to put the Naval Discipline Act into force. 
Every one in Australia knows that that is what they did. The men were sent away with the vessel, but the Government subsequently found that they were in an untenable position, and agreed to settle the matter in dispute before  Mr. Justice  Higgins.  His  Honour said that the orders which had been issued to these men should not have been given, and he gave the order that they must go back to the conditions existing before the men who were replaced left the ship. The Minister controlling the matter took it before the Cabinet, if the public press is to be believed, and the Cabinet- agreed with what he 'had done. 
They did. 
They did not do that. A statement was published in the public press that the Minister for the 
Navy had taken the matter before Cabinet, which had upheld the action he had taken. 
In order to win the war, every man should take an equal share of the work and danger; but to conscript a few men -and put them in a ship's stokehole at work for which they had not been trained, and to then bundle them off to sea, as was done by the late Government, was exactly the same sort of thing as the English people objected to so much years ago. During the time of the Crimean War, a man had barely put his foot on the wharf after a three years' voyage, when a gang of men surrounded him, pressed him on to another ship, without giving him even an opportunity to see his family, and sent him off to sea. I repeat that the action taken by the late Government in respect of naval volunteers was equally as bad as the conduct of the pressgang. These men were taken away from their avocations. One leading anticonscriptionist, a namesake of  Senator Russell,  mentioned on many platforms that he went to Port Melbourne to say farewell to -his son, and was not allowed to see him. 
Exactly. If every man had to take his share of the work, there would bo no objection. 1 certainly am prepared to take my share. The law which was passed by this Parliament, and assented to by the King three years ago, ought to be brought into force at once. 
In regard to the increase of freights and fares from Western Australia from £14 to £18, mentioned by  Senator de  Largie, I have every sympathy with the people who are suffering, because, as one connected with the Commonwealth Shipping Department, I know that there is no justification for such an increase at the present time. I have not yet had time to see whether the Government have power to deal with this matter; but if we have not I shall bring the question before the Cabinet in order to ascertain whether we cannot stop what seems like daylight robbery. The increase is quite unjustifiable, and should be stopped at once. I regret that  Senator Story  is not present, because I believe that I am the guilty person who prevented the export of horse flesh to the Belgians. Australians are not accustomed to the idea of horse flesh being used as food ; and I confess that the idea of feeding our Allies on horse flesh 'while we are able to feed on the -best of lamb was somewhat repugnant to me at first. It would appear, . hoWever, that the export of horse flesh is mixed up with the matter of horse breeding. Moreover, whatever our views may be upon horse flesh as an article of diet, we must admit that other people have a right to eat and drink what they choose. I notice that in Germany the price of horse flesh is 3s. per lb., and I wish it may reach 12s. per lb. If we have horse flesh to sell, I see no objection to its being exported for the benefit of our Allies, and I shall give a favorable report on the matter to the Minister of Trade and Customs. The slaughtering of female stock, to which reference was made by  Senator O'Keefe,  is a question that can be dealt with only by the States. 
That suggestion has been considered. At the present time I think we have a natural protection in that regard in the difficulty of securing refrigerated space for the transport of meat overseas. As a question of policy is involved, I will bring the matter under the notice of the Prime Minister. It may be found that we can do something in co-operation with the States. I wish now to refer to a matter that affects, particularly, myself, and also the Cabinet and the people of Australia. I refer to the publication of some correspondence by the  president  of the Victorian Political Labour Council,  Mr. Holloway,  and the secretary,  Mr. Stewart.  I do not wish to drag anybody else into my dispute, or to make use of anybody else's name; but in view of a statement that was made in another place, I think that I am justified, in defence of my character and my political views, to place on the records of this Parliament what I believe to be the facts. I repeat that I have no desire  to implicate anybody else. I have had no personal quarrel with anybody. All the members of the Parliamentary Labour party were good friends of mine until the breach occurred in the party, and my only quarrel is with a system which I believe to be incompatible with free and democratic government in any country. Last week, when I explained my position in the Ministry, I did not give the reasons why I was expelled from the' Political Labour Council, because I never' knew, and no honorable member in this Parliament knew, them. Nevertheless, that drastic action was taken. During that debate, I made use of no man's name; I criticised no man personally; nor did I question the honesty of even* those who had differed from me, and expelled me from the Labour party. On the following day this joint statement by.  Mr. Holloway,  the  president  of the Political Labour Council, and  Mr. A.  Stewart (secretary) was published in the  Art/ lis - 

 Senator Russell's recent speech in the Senate unfairly states the position of the Central Executive and of  Mr. Tudor. 
Permit me to say that during the course 01 my speech I did not mention the name of my honoured recent colleague and friend,  Mr. Tudor. His  name came into the debate only when I read the letters which the central executive had sent to  Mr. Tudor  and myself. Judge of my surprise, however, when I found that  Mr. Tudor  had judged me by the report in the press - by which  I hope no Honorable member will ever judge another - and said I had referred to him in this debate, and that he had never received a letter from the central- executive. I do not know whether or not  Mr. Tudor  made that statement. I am not going to judge  him. by the press report; but if he did make that statement it is incorrect, for  Mr. Tudor  did receive a letter, and I received a letter, and we discussed together what we should do with them. I do not think it is fair to pit  Mr. Tudor  against me, or for me to pit myself against  Mr. Tudor.  No political question is involved in this  matter, but our personal honour is involved. It is stated a little later - 
He was prepared, he said, to consult the executive on the expediency of his resigning at a later stage. 
I wish to say that the only time I met the executive of my party was at my own request. I then told them plainly what I thought, was the political situation. I did not give them any Cabinet secrets or any  secrets  of my party. I spoke to them as members of a common organization would speak to one another. I was asked, not once, but a dozen times, by the members of that executive if I would consent to be bound by its decision as to whether I should resign from the Labour Ministry. My reply was, " Gentlemen, I am willing to confer with you, because I believe that there is a political crisis. I am prepared to listen to an expression of your 'views, but I deny your right, or that of anybody outside the Labour party in Parliament, to say whether I shall be a member of a Labour Ministry." I have never deviated from that path. I have always been willing to confer with the central executive. I have always regarded its members as my friends. But I refused to take orders from  them  on a matter which their rules did not embrace. It is also stated by  Mr. Stewart  that I failed to answer either of two letters that were sent to me commanding me to resign from the Ministry. From that allegation it might be inferred that I was discourteous to this body. As a matter of fact, I declined to reply to their letters because I refused to discussmy position as a Minister with an outside body which had no power to deal with it. I think that most honorable senators will acquit me of. ever being discourteous to anybody.  Mr. Stewart's  statement proceeds - 
The following letter waa sent in reply from the executive: - "Your letter of 28th instant to hand, and contents noted. May I point out that your answer seems to evade the direct question asked of you in my letter of 28th inst., and I now desire a definite answer - " Yes " or " K0." - before 4 o'clock this afternoon, as to whether you intend to place yourself in the hands of this executive for the purpose of addressing meetings in opposition to the conscription proposal to be submitted to the people by referendum on 28th October." 
To this letter no answer was received, although the letter was handed to  Senator Russell  personally before midday on September 29th. Then a final communication was sent to  Senator Russell,  which concluded with the following: - " Having failed to comply with the request contained therein, I am instructed to inform you that you are expelled from membership of the Political Labour Council of Victoria." 
The reason why I was dismissed was that I refused to place myself in the hands of the central executive. When the executive wrote me they evidently held a meeting and decided that if the recipients of their letters did not reply to their inquiries in a certain way they were to be sacked. When the foregoing letter was sent to me I sat down and wrote two pages of - foolscap in reply to it. In the meantime the members of the executive had scattered around Australia.  Mr. Archibald  Stewart was not in "Victoria when that letter reached me. No executive had met, and no executive had considered my reply to that letter. Its members had left the assistant secretary of the organization in Melbourne with an instruction that if questions were not answered "Yes" or "No" by politicians with whom they had communicated they were to be dismissed. When I heard that I had been dismissed' bv a clerk in the office I was dumbfounded. Good God ! just think of it for a moment - a Minister of the Crown dismissed by a clerk in the office. This is not a Labour question; it seems almost to be a question of personal hatred. What crime have I committed? The man who leads the Labour party on the Opposition benches to-day sat by my side as a " pal." I believe that there is not a single difference on political principles between  Senator Gardiner  and myself. Yet I am dishonoured and branded in the newspapers as a traitor. Who calls me that? The coward who writes it on paper, but who never comes to me to say it. Are Ministers -who have won their spurs in politics - and every Labour man knows what a long and hard trial it is before he can gain even the nomination of his party - to be summarily dismissed by a clerk in the office of the central Labour executive? Having been elected to the executive of our party, and subsequently to the Ministry, and having become a Minister a second time, I ask is my fate to b9 determined by a clerk in the office? Nobody regrets what has occurred more than I do. To me the Labour movement is one of the greatest things on earth. But I protest against my destiny, my life, and my career, being torn from me without any explanation. Having gained the confidence of sixty men in the Parliamentary Labour party of Australia, am I to be derided as a traitor merely because I failed to convince seven members of the central executive? I did not think that anybody in this world could be so malicious as to do what has been done to me. The control of Ministers of the Crown and of members of Parliament by outside executives on non-party questions is too serious a matter for Australia to treat lightly. When the members of the central executive went scalphunting, somebody said that I had not explained why I had joined  Mr. Hughes.  At all events, I can say that whether it was the Labour executive, or the Labour party4 or  Mr. Hughes,  I have never failed to stand by the principles in which I believe; and I have quarrelled with all and sundry in turn, irrespective of what might happen to myself as an individual: I wish to put on record why I joined  Mr. Hughes.  I had quarrelled with the Labour party, and I had quarrelled with  Mr. Hughes;  and the Labour executive, who knew all the personal sacrifices I had made, had re-affirmed my absolute dismissal. In my hour of trouble, when the fight was over,  Mr. Hughes  was ready to forget and forgive, as I myself, in turn, was prepared to do. I know of no man in the history of the Labour movement in Australia of whose work we are so proud, or who has rendered that movement more brilliant service. But, in all sincerity, I say that in my opinion he made the mistake of his life when he adopted the policy of conscription. Who, however, will question the honesty of the man who,' in season and out of season, day and night, has worked for the improvement of the conditions of the people of Australia? Who is the man that has moulded our legislation, though not then the leader of our party? Suddenly this man is turned out of the party, and, like a demon, is hounded from place to place. Was that fair? No. My troubles with  Mr. Hughes  were over. The conscription issue  had been settled in a democratic way by the voice and the vote of the people, and the question of the regulations had also been settled with  Mr. Hughes.  My love of my country is second to that of no man, and I give place to none in my adherence to democratic principles ; and to whom should I look, in our present crisis, if not to the man who has rendered such service, and is likely "to render more ? I regret that  Mr. Hughes  and the Labour movement are not reconciled to-day; but I believe that he will yet do more work for the masses of this country than is in the power of any other man I know. I am not getting any pleasure out of the present position. Many honorable senators opposite are amongst my best friends, and we hold political principles in common; but if the movement and Democracy are to be saved, ought we not collectively to do something to bring the two sections of the party toTgether? What would it matter if the present Government were to go to-morrow  1  There is a greater force to be considered outside. Who is going to help the man in the slums, and the sweated women and children, if not the organized masses of  the people outside? Are we, in our differences of opinion, going to selfishly struggle for place and power, and allow ourselves to be conquered by those who are opposed to the interests of the country? I regret the trouble; but I reaffirm that never, under any circumstances, will I accept a position as a Labour Minister if I am not to be free - if I am to be bound body and soul and not permitted to use my intelligence in the best interests of the people, and if I have to go to men who have been my political opponents dozens of times, and say, " Please, what shall I do to save my country in this, the greatest crisis of its history?" Never, never, never, will I! 
.- At this season of the year, and at this hour, I am not going to discuss many things that are near and dear to my heart. I rise for the specific purpose of asking the Minister to reply to a question that was put early in the day by  Senator McKissock,  who has had to leave the chamber. However, I do not think I should be doing my duty if I did not reply to a few statements made by  Senator Russell  in his impassioned and very eloquent speech.  Senator Russell  said that he was dismissed from the Labour party by a clerk in the office of the Political Labour Council. I regret very much the severance of  Senator Russell  from the Labour party, or, as he might prefer to put it, the severance of the Labour party from  Senator Russell.  I regret very much, at this time of the year, when there ought to be peace and good-will on earth, that not only are the nations warring against each other, but we, in the body politic, seem to be divided amongst ourselves. 
 Senator Russell  now, to a certain extent, qualifies the statement he made in bis speech. This discussion hurts me as much as I have no doubt it hurts  Senator Russell  and others. Though a young man, I have learnt to love the Labour party, and have done all in my power for it, with a view to benefiting the masses of the people. I do not think that  Senator Russell  has been quite fair - perhaps unintentionally - and I do not wish his remarks to be put on record without voicing an objection.  Senator Russell  may have been dismissed in a letter written by the clerk, under instructions from his superior, who, in turn, had instructions from the executive, whose servant he is. 
And I hope that  Senator Russell  will not think I am making any reflection on him. The feeling between the honorable senator and myself  is of the most friendly character, though we may differ on this particular question. But, in fairness to the organization, which I at the present time represent, and in relation to which I may' at some future time be placed in a similar position to that  of  Senator Russell,  I must say a  few  words, of protest. I look to that organization for no favour, and I am prepared  to do my  duty, irrespective of what they do or think, according to my own conscience, ideas, and political thoughts.  As  I say,  Senator Russell  may have been dismissed in a letter signed  by  the assistant clerk, who, however, was only carrying out  the  instructions of his immediate superiors, just as the secretary of  Senator Russell's  Department may sign a letter authorized by the honorable gentleman. 
Of course, Idid not know that; and, if it be so, the position seems to me rather peculiar. 
I did not think that a clerk in the office of a great organization like this would take upon himself to displace a Minister of the Crown, or even a member of the Labour party in any of the States. The question to which I referred earlier as having been asked by  Senator McKissock  is as follows: - 
Why are not all the officers of the Public Service treated alike in regard to the holidays on the 27th December and 1st and 2nd January next? While one section will be working on those days, without extra pay, another section will enjoy a holiday. 
Will the Postmaster-General rectify this anomaly, granting extra payment to those who work, or time off in lieu of the time worked? 
I hope  Senator Lynch  will reply to this question, because these men in the Public Service are directly interested. 
 Persons employed in the Public Service had the right up to last year whenever they worked on gazetted holidays of being allowed time off, or the equivalent of the time worked ; but last year an amendment of the Public. Service Act was made under which persons employed in the Public Service of the Commonwealth have the right to demand payment for working on any public holiday as specified in section 72. 
The answer, therefore, is that the public servants referred to by  Senator Blakey,  on behalf of  Senator McKissock,  haves the right to be paid overtime for any of the specified public holidays onwhich they may be called upon to work by the heads of their Departments.  Senator Needham's  question about the transcontinental railway cannot be replied to in very definite terms. There are very good reasons why an answer cannot be given to him in the terms that he would expect. The standardization of the transcontinental railway has been engaging the attention of the Commonwealth Government and the State of Western Australia for some time. This refers more particularly to the strip of line connecting Kalgoorlie with Fremantle, so that the line from Port Augusta on the east to Fremantle on the west, may be standardized. Broadly the position is that while the whole Commonwealth, through the Federal Parliament, rightly insists on the standardization of the gauge, Western Australia has not fulfilled its part of the compactup to date. There are, perhaps, good reasons why it has not. It will be remembered that in the early stages of the project a direct inducement was held out to this Parliament by the people of Western Australia that they would standardize the gauge from Kalgoorlie to the sea when the Commonwealth bad built the line from Kalgoorlie toPort Augusta. As a matter of justice and equity I should say that whatever blame exists for the nonfulfilment of that undertaking does not rest on the shoulders of the Commonwealth Go vern men t. I could answer  Senator Needham's  question off-hand by saying that I would refer it to the Cabinet; but if I did, he and those he represents would not be satisfied with such a bald reply. I admit that the standardization of the. line from Kalgoorlie to the sea to connect with our broad gauge from Port Augusta to Kalgoorlie when completed is a matter that has to be seriously considered. Western Australia has a gauge on that line of 3 ft. 6 in., the same as in Queensland and portion of South Australia, as well as in the rest of the western State. For all practical purposes that gauge from Kalgoorlie to Fremantle is as good as any other I know of the same type in any part of the Commonwealth; therefore, while we are at war, and have to toss up every shilling twice before we spend it, or ought to doso, it becomes a serious question for the Commonwealth and Western Australia as to whether that line shall be standardized, when there are other works of a much more pressing nature calling urgently for attention. I shall bring the matter before the Cabinet with the intention of having it seriously discussed; but, personally, I am not in favour of standardizing the gauge at present. I believe there are other' more pressing demands upon the time, and attention, and financial resources of Australia than that of laying down a standard gauge side by side with a track which is giving, so far as my personal experience goes, the utmost satisfaction to those who are using it. In regard to  Senator Guthrie's  question as to the proclamation of the Navigation. Act, I would also reply briefly that I would bring it before the Cabinet, were it not that I have a rooted objection to stereotyped replies. I, therefore, tell the honorable senator that in this case also there are many reasons why the proclamation of the Act should be withheld for the time being. There is no doubt that the proclamation of the Act is necessary, but we must consider all those fine and delicate arrangements existing between the British Empire and her Allies, without the consideration of which the Act cannot be proclaimed. 
I realize that a chaotic condition of things affects the mercantile marine around this continent, with six State Acts in operation, and an Imperial Act superimposed on them, so that a person engaged in the mercantile marine is governed by a kind of hydraheaded authority, under which he does not know exactly where he stands. In order to displace that authority and give effect to the provisions of the Federal Constitution it is very necessary that the Navigation Act should be proclaimed. As an old seaman who has spent many years 
Bailing  round this coast, I need not tell my honorable friend,  Senator Guthrie,  that I am earnestly anxious that the Navigation Act should be brought into operation at the -earliest possible moment. We are told that " coming events cast their shadows before," and we might say that in this case coming events have cast their benefits before, inasmuch as the passing of the Navigation Act by the Commonwealth Parliament has been productive, as  Senator Guthrie  will say, of much belated justice to the seamen on oar coast. 
It is true that our seamen have not yet the full advantage and benefits of the operation of this Act; but, as I have already indicated, while I am not slow, as one who long followed a seafaring life, to estimate the interests of the seamen, there are at present considerations that far outweigh the importance of giving them immediately all the benefits that would naturally accrue to them from the proclamation of this Act. We must have respect for the treaties already entered into, and for the demand that has come from the Imperial Government that the proclamation of this Act should be delayed. I feel sure that  Senator Guthrie  will be satisfied with my reply to his question that I will bring the matter before Cabinet, and endeavour to have the Act proclaimed as early as possible. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
