I have to report that six months' leave of absence on furlough, from 1st March to 31st August, 1925, has been granted to  Mr. G.  H. Monahan, C.M.G.,  Clerk  of the Senate. 
DEATH OF SENATOR McDOUGALL. -NEW SENATORS. 
 It is with very great regret that I have to -announce to the Senate the death, on the 14th- October last, of  Senator Allan  McDougall. The funeral of the late senator took place in. Sydney, and. as I was absent, in South Africa, and the  Deputy President  was in Adelaide, an officer of the Senate journeyed- to Sydney and- represented the  President  at' the funeral. On behalf of. the Senate the  Deputy President  also conveyed an expression of sympathy to  Mrs. McDougall  and family, pending the more formal resolution of the Senate. I have also to- inform the Senate that, pursuant to the provisions of the Constitution, the Governor of the State of New South Wales was notified' of the vacancy caused in the representation of' that. State in the Senate bythe death of  Senator Allan.  McDougall) and that  a  communication has been, received from  His- Excellency-  the GovernorGeneral enclosing a certificate of the choice- of John- Maurice . Power as a senator to fill such vacancy. The certi0 ficate-will be laid on the table, and read by the Acting  Clerk. 
Certificate read By the Acting Clerk. 
I have further to' inform the Senate that, on the 13th January last,  Senator J.  M. Power, who had. not taken his seat in the Senate, died in Sydney. On behalf" of the Senate, I conveyed an expression of sympathy to  Mrs. Power  and family. Pursuant to the provisions of the Constitution, I notified the Governor of the State of New South Wales of the vacancy caused in the representation of that State in the Senate by the death of  Senator J.  M. Power,, and I have- received a communication from  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral, enclosing a certificate of the choice of William Albion Gibbs as  a  senator to fill such vacancy. The certificate will be laid on the table, and read by the Acting  Clerk. 
Certificate read by the Acting Clerk. 

 Senator Gibbs made and subscribed the oath of allegiance. 
 I have to report that I have received a copy of-, the Speech with which His Excellency the Governor-General was graciously pleased to open the' present session of. the Parliament. 
 I have to inform the Senate that information having been received of the- death, of" the- Right  Hon.  W. F. Massey, P.C., Prime Minister of New Zealand, steps were taken to communicate to the  President  of the- Legislative Council and the.  Speaker  of the House of Representatives of New Zealand the sympathy of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia, and that the following reply has been received from the Prime Minister of New Zealand: - 

 (By leave.) - I move - 
That the Senate places on record its profound regret at the death of the Eight Hon. William Ferguson Massey, P.O., LL.D., M.P., Prime Minister of the Dominion of New Zealand, and expresses its deep sympathy to his family and the people of New Zealand. 
I am sure honorable senators will agree with me that it is quite proper that the Commonwealth should publicly express, through this Parliament, its sympathy with the people of New Zealand in the death of their late Prime Minister. He died, as honorable senators are aware, on the evening of the 10th May, leaving behind him a fine record of public service. He was leader of the Opposition in the Dominion Parliament from 1903 to 1912, and was Prime Minister from the 10th July, 1912, up till his death. I may be permitted to .sketch briefly some of the principal events in his great career. He attended a number of Imperial Conferences and War Cabinets during the years 1916, 1917, 1918, and onwards, and received the freedom of London and other cities in Great Britain and Ireland' as a tribute for services which he had rendered to the Empire. In 1915 he formed the National Government in New Zealand for the more vigorous prosecution of the war, and at its close he attended the Peace Conference at Versailles and signed the Treaty of Peace on behalf of New Zealand. He attended the Imperial Conference in 1923. At his death, in addition to the position of Prime Minister, he held the portfolio of Minister of Finance. The late  Mr. Massey  led a strenuous public life. Shortly after his taking office in 1913 came the world crisis of 1914, and in the subsequent years of the war his great courage, loyalty, and statesmanship placed him in the first rank of overseas statesmen. We know how, under his leadership, New Zealand entered wholeheartedly upon its duty in the Great War.  His  message to the Mother Country on behalf of New Zealand has become memorable - 
All we are, and all we have, are at the disposal of the Imperial Government for the purpose of carrying on the war . to a successful issue. 
The late  Mr. Massey  took a firm stand when -the interests of the Dominion demanded it. Prom his refusal to allow the New Zealand troops to sail without adequate protection, right through to the scene at Versailles, where he affixed his signature as Prime Minister to the first Treaty of Peace to which a Dominion was a party,  Mr Massey  played his part as the representative of a people who were paying the price, and were, therefore, entitled to be heard.  His  attitude was the same when dealing with the British Government on matters affecting the economic position of the Dominion. The appearance of  Mr. Massey  at the various Imperial and War Conferences was welcomed by the British Government. " A robust Imperialist of the practical type," the London  Daily Telegraph  called  Mr. Massey,  and added, " He has played at the Peace Conference the role which every one expected from so staunch a patriot. We do not remember a single occasion on which the head of the National Government of New Zealand has failed to speak worthily on behalf of the splendid Dominion which sent to Europe over 100,000 gallant soldiers, whose war record is surpassed by none." These .'are neat and well-merited commendations from a great newspaper. Solidity, staunchness, straightforwardness, and honesty recommended  Mr. Massey-  to the people of the British Empire, and through him the Dominion was represented by the characteristics which appeal strongly, to the British race. He was the real and effective leader of the Dominion during the dark years when New Zealand and the Empire most wanted an example of tenacity and staunchness, and, irrespective of party, his services in that respect have been wholeheartedly acknowledged in the Dominion, and his loss deplored. He was a firm believer in co-operation between New Zealand and the Commonwealth in all matters of common concern. During his term  as Prime Minister, .several commercial agreements were concluded . between New Zealand and .Australia, thus encouraging the spirit of co-operation between the two countries. New Zealand, and the Empire generally, have lost a great dominion leader, and a robust, unequivocal patriot. Because we in Australia were in close touch with -our sister Dominion, we realize what .a .great loss his death is to her people, and I ask the 
Senate to . pass the motion which I am submitting. 
In rising to associate myself with the motion so ably moved by the Leader of the Senate, I join quite sincerely in' his expression of sympathy with the family of the late Prime Minister of New Zealand, and the people, in the loss of the first statesman of that Dominion. No matter what, our party views may be, we can, on occasions like the present, pay a just tribute to a good man who, in time of stress and trouble, did his level best for the Dominion which he so ably represented. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber join with me in expressing profound sympathy with the people of New Zealand in the death of  Mr. Massey,  who rendered such splendid services to the Dominion of New Zealand. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
DEATH OF SENATOR ALLAN McDOUGALL. 
 (By leave.)  - I move - 
That the Senate expresses its sincere regret at the 'death of  Senator Allan  McDougall, and places upon record its appreciation of his long and meritorious public service, and extends its ' profound sympathy to his widow and family in their Bad bereavement. 
There is in the minds of all of us in connexion with this motion a deep sense of personal loss, but before dealing with that I should like to place on record the services which the late senator rendered to Australia in his capacity as 'a member of this Chamber.  Senator McDougall,  who died at Sydney on the 14th October, 1924, was elected, as a representative of New South Wales in the Senate, at the general elections . in 1910, and again in 1914. He was Temporary  Chairman  of Committees in 1913,  Chairman  of the Select Committee on the Fitzroy Dock in 1913, a member of the Select Committee on the Mount Balfour (Tasmania) Post Office in 1915, and a member of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts from September, 1917, to October, 1919. At the general elections in 1919 he was defeated, but was again elected to the Senate for New South Wales at the general election in 1922, taking the place of  Senator Garling,  who had been chosen by the Parliament of New South Wales to fill a vacancy in December, 1921. He was a member of the Select Committee that was appointed to inquire into the case of Warrant Officer Allen in 1923, a member of the Royal Commission on National Insurance in 1923-24, Temporary  Chairman  of Committees in 1923- 24, and a member of the Select Committee which inquired into the case of J. P. Dunk in 1924. But whilst the late honorable senator undoubtedly had a great record of public service, I think all the older members of the Senate feel his loss the more because of the close personal touch we had with him. He was a likeable man - a manly man - with a high sense of public duty. As the records of the Senate show, even in the last year of his life, when already premonitions of coming dissolution were making themselves apparent to all who knew him intimately, he remained steadily at his post.  His  sense of duty was such that he continued to make the long journey to and from Sydney every week in order to attend in his place in the Senate, notwithstanding that his health was endangered thereby. We know that one of the contributory causes of his death was the fact that he felt impelled, despite his ill health, to ' carry out at the last Eight Hours Demonstration in Sydney, certain duties which, on account of his long association with trade unionism, he regarded as being among the most, if not the most, important he was called upon to discharge. I am confident from what I have heard that his response to the call of duty on that occasion hastened his death. He was an upright, conscientious man, whom every one could respect, no matter how widely divergent their political views might be, and he found a place in the affections of all honorable senators in a way that few of us are able to do. We deplore his death, and we extend to his widow and family our heartfelt sympathy. If those qualities that made him so much a friend to all of us have caused us a deep sense of loss, how much greater must be the loss felt by his widow and family. It is with a sense of personal sorrow that I submit the motion, and at the same time bear testimony to the great public service rendered by this sterling man. 
.- The time that has elapsed since  Senator McDougall  passed over enables one to speak of him without that deep emotion that would have affected one in ' doing so immediately after his death. I desire to associate myself with all that the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  has said. I was, perhaps, more closely associated with the late honorable senator than any other - member of this chamber. I was returned with him to the Senate in 1910, and on all occasions found him to be as the Minister has said - perhaps one of the most conscientious men that ever sat in this chamber. He always took .his parliamentary life seriously, and would suffer nothing to come between him and the discharge of every duty he was called upon to perform. When he left his place as  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in order to act as a Temporary  Chairman  of Committees, as he often did, he pushed on with the business before us in a way that showed that he realized that it was required of him as Acting  Chairman  to see that the work of the Senate was transacted with expedition. Returning to his duties as  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition he was equally earnest and thorough in his work. As  Senator Pearce  has said, he was a likeable man. He was, indeed, a lovable man. He had all those natural qualities that manly men admire. He was straightforward, and outspoken. As a politician he was, in reality, a product of the Sydney Trades Hall.  His  political education, I may say, was . gained there. He loved his union, and his union loved and respected him. He was looking forward for weeks to the last Eight Hours' Demonstration in Sydney, to which  Senator Pearce  has referred, for it marked the fiftieth year in which he had participated in that function. From his youth he never missed the Eight Hours' celebrations in Sydney, and he had marched in the procession each year until he was 68 years nf age. For weeks he had been counting the days that would elapse before ho would be able to say that every year for half a century he had joined in these celebrations with the men in whose struggles for improved working conditions he had participated. In our party fighting we often, perhaps, misunder stand one another; hut no one closely acquainted with the late honorable senator for any length of time could misunderstand him., There was nothing hidden in his nature.  His  was an open, manly character. He believed that the conditions of the workers could he made better than they were, and every ounce of his energy and all his abilities were de-  voted to that end. By his death the Senate has lost a most able and conscientious member, and Australia a worthy son, while the widow has lost a husband, and the family a father of whom they were justly proud. I join with the Minister for Home and Territories in the expression of our sympathy which is to be conveyed to the widow and family. We have lost a warm-hearted friend. 
Before submitting the motion, I should like to say on my own behalf that it was with inexpressible sorrow that I learned, on my return to Australia, after my tour of South Africa, of the death of  Senator McDougall.  From the day that he entered this chamber there was never a break in my friendly associations withhim. To me his death is a personal loss. He was a man of the highest type, and as a representative of the workers was a sincere, sterling, fearless, and inde- pendent member. He gave of his best to the people of the State he represented,and to the Commonwealth which he served so well. It was with profound regret that we learned that his great, public services were ended, and they were ended, probably, all too early by reason of his devotion to duty. . I mourn the loss of a dear and valued friend, and hope that his widow and family will be comforted by the knowledge that they have the profound sympathy of every member of the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 

 . - (By leave.) - I move - 
That the Senate places upon record its sincere regret at the death' of  Senator John  Maurice Power, and extends its profound sympathy to his widow and  family  in  their  Bad  bereavement. 
It is unique in the history of 'the Senate that an honorable senator, chosen by the Parliament of his state, should die, as  Senator John  Maurice Bower did, before having an opportunity to take his seat in this chamber. Because of this, many of us did not become personally acquainted with the honorable senator. I myself do . not remember ever meeting him, and am not in . a position to speak of his publio service; but the fact that he was chosen by the Parliament of New South Wales to represent that . state in tha Senate, is an indication of the respect in which he must have been held there. It is extremely regrettable that a man placed in such a high position should thus . early have been stricken . by the hand of . death, . and we . sympathize with his widow and family in their bereavament. 
 In associating myself with the motion submitted by  Senator Pearce,  I should like to say that the 'late  Senator Power  was one of the brilliant. young men of the Labour . movement.  His  outstanding ability marked him out for . appointment to the Legislative Council in New South 'Wales, 'in which chamber he held his seat ably and well for some years, and on the death . ofSenator McDougall- he was selected : by : both 'HousesofParliament in New South Wales to fill the vacancy in the Senate.He was a young man of enthusiasm, energy, and marked ability. TheSenate suffered a distinct loss when he . passed away before having an opportunity to display his outstanding ability in this wider sphere of politics. "I sincerely regret 'his early death, and join with  Senator Pearce  in expressing sympathy for the widow and family. As 'the 'right honorable senator' has said,  Senator Power  was not known personally to many 'honorable senators, but those of us who did know him can freely say that he was one of thoseself-sacrrficing men who, 'un- . mindful of their own physical well-being, devote all their energies to -the service of their country, striving ever to better the  conditions of their 'fellows. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
 I shall convey these resolutions of sympathy to the widows and families, and also, in the case of 'the resolution relating to the death of  Mr. W.  F. Massey, to the -Government of the Dominion of New Zealand. 
May I he permitted to announce that the Labour party has elected  Senator Needham  as  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, and that  Senator McHugh  will act as  the Opposition Whip? I make that statement for . the information and convenience of the Senate. 
As a mark of respect to : the late Right  Hon. Mr. Massey  and thelate honorable senators, I move - 
That the Senate do . now adjourn. 
Question resolved in theaffirmative. 
Senate adjournedat 4.6 p.m. 
During the recess the creation of a new department and portfolio and the re-arrangement of several portfolios were effected. Following upon the creation of the Department of Marketsand Migration,  Senator the  Honorable Reginald Victor Wilson was appointed Minister of State for Markets and Migration. On account of ill-health the Honorable Eric Kendall Bowden resigned the appointment of Minister of State for Defence. The Honorable Herbert Edward Pratten also resigned his appointment of Minister of State for Health. Major-General the Honorable  Sir Neville  Reginald Howse, V.C., K.C.B., K.C.M.G., was appointed Minister of State for Defence and Minister of State for Health. He is also administering the Repatriation Act. The Honorable Charles W. C. Marr, D.S.O., M.C., V.D., was appointed a member of the Executive Council and Honorary Minister. 
I ask the Minister for Markets and Migration has the report of the committee appointed to inquire into the hop industry been received and considered, and, if so, what action does the Government propose to take in connexion therewith? 
The report has been received, and I have read it, but it has not yet been fully considered. The Government will, as early as possible, do what it thinks right in the matter. I can assure the honorable senator that there will be no unnecessary delay. 
Will the Minister for Migration  (Senator Wilson)  inform the Senate if the extraordinary influx of Southern Europeans into Australia is the result of his assumption of office? If it is, will he cease his efforts in that direction until he has made inquiries into the consequent displacement of Australian labour in the Queensland cane-fields ? Will he also confer with  Senator Foll,  and ask him to pay some slight attention to the needs of the state which he represents, and take a little less notice of what is said by  Mr. Ramsay  MacDonald, the Leader of the British Labour Party? 
The honorable senator wishes to know if any impetus to Southern European immigration has taken place since I assumed office. My reply is that I have never assumed office with respect to that matter. It does not come within the scope of my department. 
Has the Minister seen the statement in the press by  Mr. Theodore,  the ex-Premier of Queensland, glorying in the fact that a large number of immigrants have lately arrived from Italy, and has the Minister ascertained whether  Mr. Theodore  was speaking as a member of the Queensland Parliament, or as the future Leader of the Federal Labour party?  His  remarks, I notice, are endorsed by the present Labour Premier of Queensland,  Mr. Gillies. 
Has the Minister for Home and Territories  (Senator Pearce)  received the first quarterly report of the Canberra Commission, and does he intend to furnish copies of it to honorable senators? 
The particular reports of the Commission which are to be presented to Parliament are specified in the act constituting the Commission, and such reports as are required by the act to be laid before the Senate will be placed before it. 
I desire to notify honorable senators that the Ministerial representation of departments in the Senate will be as follows: - The departments of the Minister for Home and Territories, the Prime Minister, and the Treasurer will be represented by myself; those of the Minister for Migration and Markets, the Attorney-General, the Minister for Trade and Customs, and the Minister for Works and Railways, by  Senator Wilson  ; and those of the Minister for Defence, the Minister for Health, and the Postmaster-General, by  Senator Crawford. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Home and Territories been drawn to a report that the executives of the Primary Producers Association and the United partyof Western Australia have concluded a satisfactory arrangement for the running of two representatives of the United party, and one of the Primary Producers Association, for the coming Senate elections ; and that  Senator Drake-Brockman,  one of the three Nationalist senators, has offered not to seek re-election on these conditions, so that a united front may be shown to Labour candidates? Further, has the Minister's attention also been drawn to a statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  as to the necessity for the appointment of an Australian Ambassador in London? Has the generous withdrawal of  Senator DrakeBrockman  any connexion with the suggestion of the Prime Minister, and does the Government intend to appoint  Senator Drake-Brockman  as Australian Ambassador in London ? 
The first part of the question, I suggest, relates to a family matter in which it would not be wise for the honorable senator to intrude. It certainly is not a matter for the Government. Respecting the second part of the question, the Government at present is not considering the claims of any honorable senator for the position of Ambassador in London. If it were doing so, I should say that  Senator DrakeBrockman  would have a very strong claim for the position. 
Pursuant to standing order No. 28a, I hereby nominate Senators W. L. Duncan,  Sir T.  W. Glasgow, W. Kingsmill, and J. E. Ogden a panel to act as Temporary Chairmen of Committees when requested so to do by the  Chairman  of Committees, or when the  Chairman  of Committees is absent. 
-Pursuant to standing order No. 38, I hereby appoint the following senators to be the Committee of Disputed Returns and Qualifications: - Senators A. Gardiner, J. Grant, W. M. Greene, J. F. Guthrie. E. Needham, the  Hon.  J. V. O'Loghlin, and the  Hon.  H. J. M. Payne. 
I move - 
That the following Address-in-Reply to  His Excellency  the Governor-General's Opening Speech be agreed to :  - 
May it Please Your Excellency, 
We, the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia, in Parliament assembled, desire to express our loyalty to Our Most Gracious Sovereign, and to thank your  Excellency  for the Speech which you have been pleased to address to Parliament. 
I do not think there could be any debate upon the literal meaning of the motion; it is one that will be agreed to by all honorable senators. Every one desires to express his allegiance to the Throne, and to thank  His Excellency  for the Speech he was pleased to address to Parliament. My experience, however, has taught me that debates upon AddressesinReply serve a very definite and useful purpose. They enable the representatives of the people to express at the beginning of a session of a Parliament their opinions regarding matters that are most vital to them and - as this Speech mentions at the outset - vital to the welfare of Australia. Such debates also enable us to bring to one another's notice happenings during the recess whilst we have been moving amongst our constituents to ascertain their requirements, but more especially to bring to the notice of the Government those matters which vitally affect our respective states. This is one of the few opportunities which honorable senators will have during the session to engage in a general discussion, and to suggest to the Government points upon which it may formulate its policy. Reading the Speech, that which first arrested my attention was the statement that the Government, when dealing with the report and recommendations of the royal commission that is inquiring into the effect of federation upon the finances of Western Australia, intended also to have the position of Tasmania examined. If that statement means what I think it means, and what I  hope  the Government intended it to mean, it will give a great deal of satisfaction to the residents of Tasmania, and will go a long way towards soothing the feeling of unrest that for a very long time has existed in that state. 
No doubt honorable senators have done excellent work in framing laws for the whole of Australia, but sometimes these laws press unduly harshly upon the people of some of the states. To have a prosperous Commonwealth we must also have a contented Commonwealth, and we cannot have a contented Commonwealth unless we try to alleviate the burdens and difficulties of the people. There are manypersons in Tasmaniawho say that on account of the undue hardship the state suffers because of the operation of several Commonwealth laws, it would fare better out of federation. I do not subscribe to that view, but at the same time I deeply sympathize with the people who, probably, from want of proper knowledge, make that declaration. The better course for us to pursue is not to criticize them harshly, but to get right down to the bedrock cause of the unrest that makes them speak in this way, and try to remove it. We must not lose sight of the fact that owing to their physical features certain portions of the Commonwealth require special laws and special treatment. What may suit most of the states may notbe applicable to all the states. As honorable senators are aware, Tasmania, which I have the honour to represent, is a small state with wonderful possibilities. It possesses a fair proportion of good land. Its scenery and its climate cannot be equalled. It has extensive latent hydro-electric resources which some day with proper treatment will make ib one  'of  the largest manufacturing centres in the Commonwealth. But for various reasons Tasmania, like Western Australia, has dropped behind financially, and although this Parliament has rendered it assistance in the past, it will go under unless it gets further assistance. I have already said that one of the chief factors in malting a prosperous federation is to make all of the people contented, and get right down to the bedrock causes of" discontent. I am sure that the proposed royal commission will get right down to the bedrock causes of the discontent of the people of Tasmania. Already the State Government is preparing its case. It is only by appointing outside commissions to take evidence on oath, and examine a case in a deliberate and impartial manner, that the truth can be ascertained. I believe that when the commission makes its examination the people of Tasmania will be able to put up a good case to show that they are entitled to assistance to tide the state over its present depression. 
In framing legislation some endeavour should be made to diminish geographical difficulties as much as possible. One law which presses particularly heavily upon Tasmania is the Navigation Act, a portion of which  Senator Ogden  is endeavouring to have repealed. Because the people of Tasmania were able to put up a good case for investigation this Parliament appointed a select committee, which was afterwards converted into a royal commission, to inquire into the effect of the Navigation Act. I have no desire to comment upon the recommendations of that commission further than to say that a majority, five members out of eight, thought that in some form or other relief should be given to Tasmania. They differed as to what the nature of that relief should be, but I hope that before this session closes the reports of the commission, together with  Senator Ogden's  proposal, will be debated in this Senate. It is absurd that people should be debarred from travelling on British ships plying between the ports of Australia. I know the arguments in favour of this embargo, but Tasmania is an island state, and the best transport facilities are not too good for its people. If you lived in Hobart, as I have, and were anxious to go to the mainland, you would be told that you could not secure a berth on an ocean liner lying at the wharf notwithstanding that half her berths were empty. The Navigation Act prevents you from doing so. Of course, in summer time, which is strike time, you can get into any sort of boat, and travel as best you can. 
One could easily start a debate as to where the fault lies. I would go further than  Senator Ogden.  I would repeal the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act as applying to Tasmania, because the best means of communication we can get are not too good for us. One object in passing the Navigation Act was to build up an Australian mercantile marine. Yet the evidence given before the royal commission shows that Australian-owned shipping is 60,000 tons less than it was when the act came into force. It is a stupid act. 
An honorable senator must not refer in disrespectful terms to an act of this Parliament unless he is moving for its repeal. 
Commonwealth that the islands mentioned have to regular means of communication with Tasmania. I do not advocate the purchase of ships, but something must be done to maintain communication even at the cost of buying ships, and to give the people of Tasmania confidence in the future. I am sorry that there is no reference to this important subject in the Governor-General's Speech, but I presume that Ministers have it in view, and that before the session closes definite action will be taken to ensure a regular shipping service between my state and the mainland. I referred just now to the succession of strikes on vessels engaged in the trade. The Arbitration Act has failed to prevent such disputes. Although I do not wish to say anything disrespectful of the act, I cannot help thinking that, so far as Tasmania is concerned, it has not achieved its purpose, because strikes occur from year to year and interfere with trade between Tasmania and the mainland. 
I am pleased that the Government intends to introduce legislation to ensure the more satisfactory functioning of the Arbitration Act in the interests of trade and industry, but' I do not intend, at this stage, to argue the merits of the many disputes that have arisen. 
In another part of the Speech a surplus is, I understand, predicted, and it is stated that the income tax legislation will come before Parliament for review, and, no doubt, amendment. The Federal Government should retire from the- field of income taxation altogether, leaving this source of revenue to the states, which, by that means, would find their finances much easier. 
The prosperity of Tasmania depends very largely upon its agricultural products, and, unfortunately, producers in my state have been doing very badly in recent years. In the opinion of many people the farmer is a man to be envied. They picture large fields of wheat put in and taken off cheaply; or, in the case of pastoralists, large sheep runs and high prices for wool. As a matter of fact, farming in Tasmania is a difficult business. The land is good, but expensive to work. It is hard to clear. In many cases a man may spend his lifetime clearing his land, and unless he maintains it in its improved condition, the scrub will soon grow again. For a long time now farm products have been bringing low prices. Probably one of our most important sources of revenue is the export of chaff, but owing to the increasing use of motor vehicles, the demand has fallen  away, and prices have declined. Potatoes also are largely grown in my state. In the year before last, we exported £1,000,000 worth of tubers, but unfortunately potatoes last year fell in price to a level that did not pay to dig them. The dairying industry gives some return also, and I welcome the paragraph in the Speech which states that satisfactory results have followed the action taken by the Board of Control. At present our dairy farmers are not getting a. living wage. They have to work long hours, and under conditions that would not be tolerated in many other industries. I should like to see the adoption of the scheme, introduced in another place by  Mr. Paterson,  because it should have the effect of stabilizing butter' prices at a somewhat higher level than is ruling at present. I know, of course, that there may be an outcry about raising the price of butter to the local consumer, but we have no right to expect cheap dairy products if. they are produced under conditions that would not be countenanced in other industries of the Commonwealth. I do not know what the position is on the mainland, but in Tasmania, at all events, if a producer wishes to raise money, and approaches his banker, he is told very often that finance is difficult, and that money is hard to get. Rightly or wrongly, many people attribute this position to the internal borrowing policy of Australian Governments. This year weshall have loans falling due to the amount of £68,000,000. Some time ago the Treasurer invited investors who wished to be repaid to make application, but there was only a small response to the amount of about £2,000,000, suggesting that the investors, being satisfied with the security, were prepared to convert when the loans fell due in December. Nevertheless, it is obvious that a great deal of new money will be required, and since 'we have reverted to the gold standard it should be possible to get it from Great Britain. I hope that this course will be adopted, thus allowing Australian banks to have sufficient for developmental purposes. 
Discussion took place last session on the subject of rural credits, and it was contended that the Government should lend money directly to the producers. I do not advocate the lending of Government money on bad security, but it would be possible for the Government to see that good security was obtained. It is very difficult at the present time to obtain money from the banks even on the best security, and there would be ample justification for the Government to advance grants to rural producers just as the State Savings Bank Commissioners do in Victoria. Under the Credit Foncier system the borrower pays a fairly reasonable rate of interest, and also 1 per cent, towards a sinking fund, with the result that after a certain number of years he is in the happy position of having substantially reduced the principal. This system would be specially advantageous to farmers, whereas at the present time, in nine cases out of every ten, rural borrowers are getting into a worse position than ever. The Ministry stated last session that the establishment of rural credits would be considered during the recess, and I have no doubt that, before the close of the present session, something tangible will be done. 
Another matter which has been diecussed in this chamber on numerous occasions is the position of the hop industry in Tasmania. Although relatively small, it provides employment for a considerable number of people who stand most in need of it, but at the present time the industry is down and out. I believe that it could be put on a satisfactory basis by a method that would not involve the Government in any large expenditure. I refer to a compulsory pool. I do not desire to go into this matter at any great length at the present, stage, since the Government has instituted an inquiry with regard to it. Some time ago, on the recommendation of the Board of Trade, the Government offered to lend £84,000 to the Tasmanian State Government for distribution among the hop-growers, and a condition of the offer was that the State Government should be responsible for the money. . This is the only loan, so far as I am aware, that has been offered to any class of producers where a State Government has been asked to take the responsibility of it. The offer was of no value, because the State authorities might just as well have obtained the money from private financial sources. It was not to be expected that the Board of Trade, no matter how estimable- the gentlemen composing it might be, could furnish a valuable report on a landed industry in Tasmania without visiting that part of the state in which it was carried on. The Government has very wisely appointed an independent body to inquire into the matter, and take evidence from those concerned in Tasmania, and, when its recommendation is received, I hope that it will be- one to which we can all agree. 
It seems to me that, when the Senate is considering rural subjects, it does not receive such information as it ought to have. I take no exception to the attitude of Ministers who introduce these matters, for I realize that they provide honorable senators with such information as they can obtain, but I point out that they have no machinery by which to secure the advice to which the Senate is entitled. 
This is not a federal matter. 
Another matter in which I am vitally interested, and one which concerns the whole of Australia, is the intimation in the Governor-General's Speech that the Government intends to continue its policy of making annual grants for roads. My own opinion - and I think that I can count on a good deal of support from honorable senators - is that if it is proposed to grant a similar sum to that made available last year, the amount should be increased. A new era in transportation has dawned. Railway traffic will be largely superseded by road trans port because of the advent of the petroldriven vehicle. The railways, which have served a very useful purpose, are ceasing to be productive on account of the increase in road traffic. It would have been much better if roads had been built instead of recently constructed railways, and I hope that the Government will provide a largely increased grant for this year. The road policies of the various states were framed to suit the varying conditions under which the roads were built, and no particular set of conditions can meet the jreq.uireim.ents of every state. N)aturally the federal officers wish to have a large voice in the expenditure of the Commonwealth grant, but they cannot possibly know as much about the requirements of the states as the state officers concerned. Under the conditions of the grant, money can only be spent on a new road if no road at all is in existence there. In Tasmania, there are long stretches of roads which are necessary owing to the geographical and physical features o'f the country. There are about 7,000 miles of highways in my state, but they are necessarily of light construction. They met requirements when built, but they now prove to be too light for the present heavy traffic. If two districts require to be connected and have no road at all, the federal grant can be used, but towns in Tasmania are usually linked up by 12-feet roads, with 5 inches of metal and 2 or 3 inches of gravel, and the federal grant cannot be used in maintaining them. It is provided under the conditions that not less than £1,000 must be spent on any one road. I quite understand that the Federal Government wish to see a tangible result for the money voted, but in a state like Tasmania a great deal of good can often be done to a road by the expenditure of less than £1,000. The engineers in my state have had to search for places that will fit the federal conditions instead of looking for roads where the money can be spent to the advantage of the greatest number of people. I have framed several road schedules in Tasmania, and Government grants as low as £50 have been made. In the larger and richer states expenditure of that nature would be regarded as a matter for the shires. During one financial year I. as the responsible state Minister, cut 'out the £50 grants, but I had to return to  the previous practice, because I found that in a great many cases the expenditure of £50 on a road was sufficient to enable men to get their produce to market. I do not say that the Federal Government should make grants as low as that amount; but I contend that in the case of Tasmania permission to expend less than £1,000 on one road would be very beneficial. Most of the states have their Roads Boards, in whose hands this work might well be placed. The Road Board in Tasmania consists of representatives of the Government, the municipalities, and the motor-car owners. If the allocation of the grant were left in the hands of this body the money would not be wasted. These Roads Boards are representative of the same class of people that we represent, and they have a special local knowledge which would enable them to expend the money to the greatest advantage. The Federal Government would be well advised to allow money granted for roads to be handed over to the Roads Boards in the various states, to be spent in what appears to them to be the best possible way. I urged last session that at least half the federal grant should be spent on the maintenance and reconstruction of main roads, but that practice has not been allowed. The result is that, in some of the states, including Tasmania, we are spending money in constructing out-back roads which could have been held back for the time being, while roads constructed with borrowed money are going from bad to worse, because the municipalities and the Government have not the funds available to repair them. 
I wish now to refer to the unsatisfactory position in which the timber industry finds itself. In most of the Australian states, and especially in Tasmania, we have timber equal for certain purposes to anything in the world. Tasmanian blackwood, Queensland maple, and our hardwoods generally, are equal to, if not better than, any grown elsewhere. In Tasmania half the mills are idle. In the district in which I reside, in the north-east of Tasmania, there are over 70 mills, and over 40 of them are idle. These mills are owned and controlled by expert bushmen, who are familiar with every branch of the industry. The men who were employed in these mills, including probably some of the best bushmen in the world, are now either out of work or are accepting work that is uncongenial. And yet no less than 365,000,000 superficial feet of timber was imported into Australia last year. In other words, 1,000,000 superficial feet of American timber is being imported into Australia every day, keeping American timbergetters in employment, while our own workmen, for want of a little more protection, remain idle. 
I think so. I have gone into the question with sawmillers themselves, who assure me that increased protection would not mean an increase in the price of Australian timber. They are willing to give a guarantee that if the protection which the industry needs is imposed, the price of Australian timber will not be raised. They ask for a sufficient duty to prevent an undue quantity of oregon being imported into Australia. 
It is merely the saw-miller's job to cut the timber and sell it. The seasoning of timber is not his job. If a small miller had to season timber, he would require to keep at least £5,000 worth of it on hand. It is not the small saw-miller who is at fault in the matter. 
The fault is with the man who puts unseasoned timber in a house. The man who builds a house of green timber is a fool: If a man builds a house he should see that green timber is not put into it. The Government employs inspectors to supervize its buildings, and it is their duty to see that unseasoned timber is not used. A private person usually employs an architect to look " after his interests. The saw-miller's job is to cut the timber, and get rid of it as quickly as possible. The large shipments of foreign timber that are coming here show that our saw-millers are not getting a fair deal. In an illustrated paper the other day was a picture of a ship that brought 5,000,000 feet of oregon to Sydney. The timber was actually unloaded in the  stream to save wharfage. Costs are cut down in every direction possible by these timber importers. The Australian workmen reap no advantage from such imports. Meantime our own mills are idle, and our men are out of work. 
Oregon from the Australian market? 
No, because there are certain purposes for which 
Oregon must be used. 
I want our own timber to be used as much as possible. 
At present no softwoods are grown in Tasmania. 
No doubt we shall have some in years to come. It is said that our Australian forests are being depleted. My reply to that is that in Tasmania we' could cut twice our normal output without depleting our supplies. That information was given to me by an expert forester in the employ of the Tas.manian Government. With reasonable forestry conditions we can soon commence cutting our timber indefinitely. Under a proper system of reafforestation, allowing the timber to grow again after being cut, the cutting out taking place over a number of years, there will be no danger of depletion. 
We are told in His Excellency's Speech that the Government have secured the services of an eminent authority to report upon the ports and harbours of the Commonwealth. There are certain harbours in Tasmania to which I wish in this .connexion to call the attention of the Government. Derwent, in the south, is probably one of the best harbours, if not the best, in the world, but I would refer specially to the Tamar - to the harbour which is at present in the making at Bell Bay. I hope the Government will send their expert there, since it has been said that because of its proximity to the mainland it may eventually be the distributing centre for the whole of Australia. It is a splendid harbour, with 60 feet of water, and the Government should assist in its development. When the visiting expert is at work I hope that the two harbours I have mentioned will not be overlooked. 
I notice with pleasure that the Government intends to help the primary producer. I myself am specially interested in primary production, and will welcome any assistance the Government may give - and they have given much - to the primary producer. It is' essential that settlers should have supplies of wire netting to help them to combat the rabbit and dingo pests. Up to the present the conditions under which grants for wire netting are made have, unfortunately, not been very beneficial. The idea of making grants for vermin-proof fencing was, no doubt, a very good one. I do not know of any pest that has done so much damage to industries of the land as the rabbits have, and the Government undoubtedly took a step in the right direction in granting a sum of, I think, £500,000 for wire netting. But the object in view is lost, to a great extent, by making the grant by way of loans to the states. The State Governments might just as well have been left to seek a loan from the banks or elsewhere, because none of them is in such financial difficulties as not to be able to obtain a few thousand pounds for wire netting. I recognize that, in the case of Tasmania, the Commonwealth has been lenient, giving us every assistance, and we are getting the netting at the present time. The scheme is a good one, for it means increased production; but the man who really needs the wire netting most of all very often cannot obtain it, because he has not the necessary security. If the Federal Government would be content to accept the guarantee of, the State Governments that they would see that the money was expended efficiently and economically, the position would be much improved. Such a guarantee should be sufficient. 
According to the Governor-General's Speech, the royal commission appointed to advise upon the method of assessing war pensions has handed in its report. In the matter of pensions, the Government of Australia has acted liberally to returned soldiers. But, despite this, it is almost inevitable that there should be cases of hardship. Some men who do not really deserve pensions have obtained them, while others, in every way deserving, have obtained small pensions or none at all. I do not want to unduly criticize the Department. It has no doubt done its best, but there are certain cases which still require special consideration. Many young men who returned from the war did not receive a thorough medical examination before their discharge. It was probably their own fault. Their one desire was to get into civilian clothes as quickly as possible, have a holiday, and then return to their ordinary avocations. Complications have since arisen. In many cases these men have .since developed diseases due to war service; but it is with the greatest difficulty that the connexion can be established between the war service and the disease which has probably developed after ia term of years. I know of one young fellow in my own district who did not seek any assistance from the Government when he returned from the war. He obtained a position, worked for three or four years, and then contracted pneumonia - which he and all his friends knew was the result of his having been gassed - and died, leaving a wife and young family. That case has not been reviewed by the Government, because, so far, it has not been placed before it, but there is relatively a large number of similar cases in Australia, and the Commonwealth is sufficiently wealthy to make provision for them. If a man has done his bit at the front, and, as in the case I have mentioned, has subsequently died of a disease, even if that disease cannot be specifically connected with his war service, provision should be made for his widow and family. 
I have not read that finding. I know that in  the  case that I have mentioned very great difficulty will be experienced in establishing any connexion between the cause of death and the man's war service. If a man has for a number of years given the very best services of which he is capable, his widow and family, at his death, should not be left in circumstances in which we should not like to see any of our kith and kin placed. Leniency ought' to be extended in such cases. 
I have touched upon a few of the matters in which I am particularly interested. As we shall have ample opportunity of examining and discussing those matters that the Government intend to bring forward, I shall reserve for a future occasion any further remarks that I have to make. 

 Senator Sir THOMAS GLASGOW (Queensland) [4.37]. - I have much pleasure in seconding the motion that has been moved by  Senator J.  B. Hayes. As honorable senators are aware, I have always taken a keen interest in matters of defence. It is pleasing to me, as I am sure it must be to every thinking Australian, to read of the proposals relating to defence that have been forecast in the Governor-General's Speech. The establishment of a naval base at Singapore is of particular interest to Australia. Singapore is situated in such a strategical position that the establishment of a base there will enable a British Fleet to protect not only our shores .but our trade routes. It is also pleasing to notice that provision is being made for a self-contained naval unit in Australia. Two cruisers and two ocean-going submarines are ' to be constructed, and the necessary docking facilities provided. I consider that any naval unit should be organized in such a way that it will be able to act not only independently, but in conjunction with the British Fleet. Honorable senators are aware that at the termination of the war an organization was provided in Australia based on the organization of the Australian Imperial Force - five infantry and two light-horse divisions. That organization also followed the lines of the British organization. The Government is now setting up factories to provide necessary supplies of small arms and ammunition, and is creating small nucleus factories for the manufacture of rifles, machineguns, wagons, and ammunition. That is a move in the right direction. The Government is also having prepared plans for supplementing the output from those factories by the conversion of private factories from peace time manufactures to the production of munitions. That, I think, is essential. Being isolated from the great manufacturing centres we should, in the event . of our being attacked, be as far as possible self-contained. Despite the excellent fighting material which is furnished by the manhood of Australia, it is necessary that provision should be made for as much training as the resources of the country will allow. It is most essential that we should have an efficient and highly-trained staff. The staff at present at head-quarters is a highly trained and experienced one. An effort should also be made to train officers' and noncommissioned officers. At present we possess a very capable lot of young officers and noncommissioned officers, but in the past the Government has not provided a sufficient amount of money to enable them to receive the training necessary to fit them to command the excellent fighting material that is available. I hope that in future sufficient funds will be available to enable those officers and non-commissioned officers to undergo a sufficient course of training. An important factor in the defence of any country is its man power. As our population is so small compared with the vast area of Australia, we should do our utmost to attract to our shores immigrants who will assist to develop our latent resources. I am not in favour of indiscriminate immigration. In the early days only a self-reliant man or woman left the Old World for Australia, or any outlying portion of the Empire. The hardships that were encountered on the voyage out, and the difficulties that had to .be faced after arrival, were very severe. It was not then necessary to make a close selection of the types that offered. Transport facilities, however, have changed considerably, and now one is able to travel much more comfortably. I, therefore, think it is essential to have a proper selection of the emigrants who propose to leave the Old World for Australia. We should as far as possible confine our immigration activities to the people of Great Britain. At the present time the population of Australia is largely British, and I hope that at least the present percentage of Britishers will always be maintained. In order to ' absorb the immigrants that are coming here it is necessary for us to develop our primary and secondary industries. In Queensland big areas of country are already tapped by railways, and are capable of absorbing large numbers of immigrants, who could make a living from rural pursuits. We should also make an effort to develop our secondary industries. With that object the Government should endeavour to attract to Australia people with a knowledge of secondary industries and sufficient capital to set them up in Australia. They should be afforded such protection as would enable them to obtain a fair start, and to give their employees the conditions that exist in other industries that are already established.  That policy would benefit the primary producer. A fortnight ago I travelled in a train with a gentleman who owns a large meat works in Victoria. He told me that when he erected the works twenty years ago he treated 2,000 fat bullocks a week, -of which the greater number was exported. Conditions have so altered that now he can treat only about 400 fat bullocks a week, and that quantity is absorbed locally. The local consumption has increased to such an extent, and the price paid by the local butcher has risen: so greatly, that he is unable to compete in oversea markets. 

 Senator Sir THOMAS GLASGOW.It is not profitable to pay that price, and export the meat. In Queensland cattle are worth about 24s. per 100 lb. at the works. At present Victoria does not produce a sufficient quantity of beef to meet its own requirements. Increased population confers a benefit upon the primary producer because he is thus given a better local market, which is the most profitable market he could have. 
Reference is made in the GovernorGeneral's Speech to the development of national railways. There are very often railway lines which may be the concern of one or two states. For instance, a line has already been marked out on the map, and * its construction will be of immense importance to at least three eastern states. I 'refer to a  proposed  railway north from Bourke, in New South Wales, to Camooweal, in Queensland, on the border of the Northern Territory. That line would run to the west of the termini of the three Queensland railway systems. 

 Senator Sir THOMAS GLASGOW.It would open up much more good country, or country capable of being settled. Honorable senators no doubt recollect that, two years ago, New South Wales and Victoria were, so short of fat cattle that the Melbourne and Sydney markets had to be supplied with fat cattle from New Zealand, a thing previously unheard of. A railway such as I propose would enable fat stock to be moved from the country to the south of the Gulf of Carpentaria and in the western portion of Queensland to the markets in Sydney and Melbourne. 
I agree with the mover of the motion  (Senator J. B. Hayes)  that it is a most  excellent proposal to continue granting assistance to the states for the construction of main developmental and arterial roads. There has recently been a marked development in mechanical means of transport. Railways are becoming more expensive to build and run. If from existing railways roads were built into small areas capable of development, not only would the railways be assisted, not only would the country be opened up. more cheaply than by the construction of railways, but also the producer would get his produce more cheaply to the market, and would be a great deal more independent of the railway systems. Like Tasmania, Queensland has special difficulties to face in building roads. The coastal country is particularly hilly, and we have very heavy rains. Although the Queensland Main Roads Board has only been in operation for a few years, one is pleased to notice in going through the country the excellent class of work it has done; but to do all' that is required a great deal of money will be needed. We have a very large area of country in Queensland, and it is essential that more money should be provided to enable the further construction of roads to proceed. 
Another matter mentioned in the GovernorGeneral's Speech will, I am sure, meet with the approval of honorable senators generally. That is the proposal to make advances to the states to help woolgrowers and others to purchase rabbit and dingo-proof wire netting. In portions of Queensland the ravages of the dingo have been tremendous, and the assistance proposed to be afforded to wool-growers will enable them to keep down the pest. Rabbits are also steadily moving northward, and this assistance will enable selectors to limit the ravages of this particular pest. 
I am pleased to note that it is proposed to re-organize the Institute of Science and Industry. .It is to be hoped that the reorganization will enable the institute to do more effective work than it has done in the past. There is every necessity for paying attention to the more practical side of science. Assistance should be given to pastoralists to enable them to cope with the various pests which are largely responsible for keeping down the  numbers  of our flocks and herds. For instance, the blow-fly pest is largely responsible for the very slow increase in our flocks of sheep. A fortnight ago I received a letter from the manager of a pastoral station, who said that he had a very fine lambing. He had 25,000 lambs on the station, and the fly had not been very active, but if it became bad he said lie would lose a large number of these lambs. It is quite customary tofind that shortly after the lambing season the flies become bad, and a large percentage of the lambs is lost'. 

 Senator Sir THOMAS GLASGOW.It is not compulsory for the pastoralist to dip his cattle, but it is in his own interests to do so, because if he does not dip them he is likely to lose them. When ticks are bad in Queensland the cattle are very often dipped every three weeks in the hot months and every two months in winter. 
Reference is made in the GovernorGeneral's Speech to the necessity for increasing production. In Victoria the application of science to the wheat-growing industry has brought about a large increase in the wheat yield. Scientists have bred a wheat which has proved suitable to the soil and the climate. They have -tested the soils, and found that by the application of certain manures .the products on can be largely increased. That has also been done in South Australia and Western Australia, and I believe also in !New . South Wales. Queensland's wheat production has not hitherto been very considerable, but it is growing. If the people in that state could go m for dry farming, and if the farmers were instructed in the best method of cultivating the soils in the wheat areas, the output of wheat in Queensland should be largely increased. In many industries there is loss of revenue because up to the present it has not been found possible to utilize waste products to the best advantage. The Institute of Science and Industry could lend valuable assistance in this direction. In connexion with our waste forest products, for example, there is an almost limitless field for research work, which should be of immense value to Australia. 
Another matter that should engage attention is the overseas marketing of Australian products in their most attractive form. We should seek improvement in the meat export trade. It is quite erroneous to think that Australian frozen' beef is inferior to frozen beef from the Argentine. As a matter of fact, it is infinitely better, because in the Argentine the practice is to chill first quality beef, and market second quality beef in a frozen state. In Australia* first quality beef intended for the British markets is frozen. It is 'sold in competition with second grade Argentine frozen beef, and, strange as it may appear, it is only in recent years that our exporters have been able to realize prices equal to those paid for Argentine second quality frozen beef. I have it on the authority of a large exporter that Australian frozen beef is better in quality than the Argentine product marketed in the same way, and I am sure that the Australian producer only wants a little encouragement to induce him to improve the quality of his herds. Cattle produced in Australia on natural grasses are, I believe., the equal of any cattle grown under similar conditions in any other part of the world ; but in the Argentine fat stock are grown on artificial grasses, chiefly alfalfa. As a result, probably they mature earlier, and produce somewhat better beef for the overseas market. 

 Senator Sir THOMAS GLASGOW.As the honorable senator states; the Argentine cattle are topped off close to the meatworks. They are marketed under rather better conditions, but I am sure that if attention is given to this aspect of the business, Australia will soon take its rightful place as a beef producer for overseas markets. 
Turning now to soldiers' pensions, I should like to say that my own experience - and I have no doubt that of other honorable senators - is that the repatriation legislation passed by this Government has been very liberal, and that it has been administered sympathetically. In certain instances some time has elapsed before returned soldiers have been medically examined, so it is difficult, when such cases come up later for review, to establish a claim that disability has been due to war service. I am confident that all such claims, and particularly from men suffering from tuberculosis, will . receive most sympathetic treatment. 
 They are not getting that now. 
 They do not. 
, -  I congratulate the mover and seconder of the Address-in-Reply upon the able manner in which they handled the various subjects mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech. When one realizes the poor material upon which they had to work, one must admit that they acquitted themselves very creditably indeed. If the Government had in view the production of a document in 'which quality was sacrificed for quantity, then undoubtedly it succeeded; because honorable senators have had presented to them a very bulky legislative programme, containing very little that is new. There is so little in the Speech that it is not the intention of the Opposition to discuss it. The doors "of this Parliament have been closed for the last eight months. They were opened yesterday. If the Government has any real business to bring forward, we on this side of the chamber intend to give Ministers the opportunity to produce it forthwith. 
 I shall be as brief as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham),  and I avail myself of this, the earliest, opportunity to congratulate him on his appointment to that position. If, during the session, speeches from the other side are as brief as that made by him on the AddressinReply, we shall make good progress with the legislation. I have only to say that, whilst it is true that Parliament has" not been functioning for the past eight months, during that time the 
Government has carried out very many important acts of administration. Ministers have now come before Parliament, and in the Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General direct the attention of honorable senators to those acts of administration. Having placed that record before Parliament, together with a statement of our intentions during the coming session, we invite the Opposition, whose duty it is to criticize administrative acts, to express their opinion. It is evident that honorable senators opposite have vainly searched the Governor-General's Speech for one single act of administration which calls for criticism, and so they are silent. I have been 24 years in this Parliament, and I can say that the attitude of the honorable senators opposite on this occasion is the finest compliment that has ever been paid to any Government by members of an Opposition. 
.- There are a few matters' mentioned in the Governor-General's Speech that I wish to refer to. I have no intention to weary honorable senators, and, following the excellent example set by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, I shall be as brief as possible. I endorse to some extent the remarks of the honorable senator who- moved the adoption of the AddressinReply  (Senator J. B. Hayes).  I thoroughly support his references to the disability under which Tasmania is suffering owing to her insular position. We have on the Commonwealth statute-book an act placed there with the best of intentions, but which has proved to be very detrimental to the welfare and development of my state. For many years, Tasmania has catered for a large number of tourists from the mainland during holiday periods, but owing to the operation of the Navigation Act this trade has been seriously interfered with, thus causing heavy loss financially to that state. It has been suggested' that the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act should be eliminated. I am aware of the difficulty of adopting that suggestion, but in all earnestness I urge the Government to realize how valuable Tasmania is to the Commonwealth, and how any injury done to Tasmania must be an injury to the Commonwealth. Surely there is some way out of this difficulty by making pro vision for British-owned ships to carry passengers during a certain period of the year to and from Tasmania and the mainland.'  Senator J.  B. Hayes pointed out that the beautifully furnished overseas vessels that call regularly at Hobart during the summer for apples leave for the mainland with their passenger space perhaps only half filled. It is unjust that the people should be deprived of facilities previously enjoyed for travelling between Tasmania and the other states. Another important phase of the disability is one that I desire to stress. Up to a few years ago it was found that the Tasmanian fruit-grower was enabled to make a failaverage return over the season for his fruit by the fact that the mail steamers found it worth their while calling at Hobart for apples by reason of the increased passenger service created, and the fruit disposed of early in the season invariably realized a high price. The growers have now lost the opportunity of getting the benefit of high rates for the initial shipments, because the vessels do not call at that particular period of the year owing to their inability to sufficiently supplement their earnings by additional fares for the apple trips. Tasmania will be denied its erstwhile privilege until an amendment of the Navigation Act to meet its needs is made. I hope that the Government, with as little delay as possible, will have this grave injustice removed. 
Many important matters are referred to in the Speech of the Governor-General, and the first that attracted my attention was the reference to the war loans, amounting to £68,000,000, falling due in December of this year. Rightly or wrongly, there is a strong impression throughout the state that I represent that the retarding of our industries, especially the primary ones, has been brought about largely by the internal borrowing policy pursued by the Commonwealth Government in recent years. I do not suggest that I am a financial expert. In all probability the Government has consulted the greatest financial authorities in Australia, and the Ministry may be able to show Tasmanians that they are wrong in their premises; but the fact remains that, the raising of loans internally appears to have so embarrassed the men on the land  that they find it almost impossible to raise the necessary money on loan to further develop their holdings. I know many rural producers in Tasmania, and E am constantly meeting people who tell me how embarrassed they are because the banks will not advance them money, and because private individuals have invested their spare funds in Government bonds. 
Borrowing can be carried on to a certain extent, but when that huge sum was obtained outside borrowing was out of the question. The time has now arrived, seeing that the exchange problem has been largely solved, when we should consider whether it would be detrimental or advantageous to continue the policy of internal borrowing. 
Much has been said regarding the decision of the Commonwealth Government to purchase two cruisers, and I  am pleased to be able to say that I believe the Government did right, in view of all the circumstances, in placing the orders abroad. It has been shown that an additional expense of at least £820,000 would have been incurred if an Australian tender had been accepted for the building of one of the cruisers in this country. Last session an honorable senator on the Opposition side stated that even if it cost £10,000,000 extra to build a cruiser in Australia, the Government would be justified in constructing it here in order to provide work for Australians, notwithstanding the fact that the life of a cruiser was only ten years. If such a policy were persisted, in, this country would soon be on the rocks. The importance of expeditious delivery had to be considered, and it would take a much longer period to build a cruiser in Australia than in the Old Country. 
Honorable senators may not fully realize how much has been done by the PostmasterGeneral's Department in recent years in increasing postal and telephonic facilities, particularly in country districts. Even its political opponents must realize that the present Government has done a great deal in that direction. It has been gratifying to me to find that in the last two or three years the settlers in outlying parts of Tasmania have been brought into touch with the larger centres by means of telegraphic and telephonic communication, and the department is deserving of credit for what it has done. It seems to me to be a backward step, however, to increase the financial burden on the outback settler rather than lighten it. 1 have in mind the increase in the opening charges of country telephone offices. Prior to a few months ago the charge that a postmaster or postmistress was entitled to make for opening a country telephone office after hours was ls., and it has now been increased to ls. 6d. I was inundated with letters and deputations protesting against the added impost, and I found that the department, while ready to listen to the objections raised, contended that relief had been given to the people rather than an additional burden placed upon them. It was pointed out that a flat rate had been established as the opening fee. Formerly the charge was ls. in the country and 2s. 6d. in the cities, whereas there was now a reduction to a flat rate of ls. 6d. I pointed out that this so-called reduction did not apply in many instances, particularly in the agricultural belt on the north-west coast of Tasmania. Ulverstone, Devonport, Burnie, Wynyard, Stanley, and Smithton each have continuous telephone services, and no opening fee can be charged, but the settlers inland from those towns, who occupy the most thickly populated and the richest agricultural district in the state, are penalized to the extent of 50 per cent, of the previous opening charge if they desire to use the telephone after hours. The so-called reduction is a myth. 
No; it is paid to the postmaster or postmistress. I am not at all satisfied with the answer given by the department. Instead of relief having been granted, an additional fee of 50 per cent, has been imposed on dwellers in the back-blocks, and I hope that the Minister will have the matter fully investigated. I am glad that arrangements have been made to give further facilities in regard to the hours during which the offices are open, but without those facilities the telephones will be useless, because the average worker on the land cannot conveniently use the telephone during office hours. 
Some time ago my attention was drawn to a serious impost on the rural producers, of not only Tasmania, but also the whole Commonwealth. I refer to the extraordinarily high price that was demanded and obtained by the purveyors of cornsacks. Last year sacks reached, I think, as high a price as 17s. 6d. a dozen. At the same time, the price of potatoes on the north-west coast of Tasmania, which- is the principal potato-producing area in that state, dropped to 35s., and even as low as 30s. a ton. The position of the potatogrower was that he had to pay for containers almost the price he received for his product. The general impression was that the ring controlling the jute business had forced up the price of cornsacks. It was then suggested that the tremendous wheat crop during that season had been responsible for the increased cost of the sacks. I remember, last June, reading in the  Argus  a statement that a certain steamer had arrived in Australia on the 2nd January laden with cornsacks, and that these would be ready for delivery on the 7th or 8th January at 16s. a dozen. Fortunately, as the result of the stern fight put up by the wheatgrowers of Australia, the price dropped to 12s. 9d. a dozen. The latest information that I have received relates to the earnings of the jute mills in India. I find that many of the companies there have been, reaping dividends on the capital invested ranging from 30 per cent, to 100 per cent. I learned that the average dividends of ten companies were  55$  per cent. I communicated with the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  and asked him to' investigate this matter with a view to taking action to relieve the position. 
Realizing that, it did appear to me that it was a reasonable suggestion for the Commonwealth Government to make an investigation, with a view to obtaining control of a mill in India, or by some other  arrrangement,  ensure to the primary producer containers for his produce at a price commensurate with cost of production plus a reasonable profit. I received the following reply from the Prime Minister : - 
Your suggestion that the Commonwealth Government might establish a Commonwealthowned or controlled mill in India has also received very careful consideration, but as it is problematical whether such a mill .would be able to supply cornsacks economically nt prices. lower than that at which they are obtainable from outside sources, and as a large amount of capital would be involved in the project, it is not considered advisable to take any steps in the direction of making an exhaustive investigation into this question. 
I object to the last sentence. I am convinced that it is most advisable that the Commonwealth Government should do its utmost to overcome the difficulty of obtaining cornsacks at a reasonable price. Very seldom is there very much margin of profit left to the primary producer when his produce is sold. I again ask the Government, in the interests of the primary producer, to take action on the lines that I have indicated. 
It will be remembered that during the war certain ill-advised individuals in Australia held up certain transports when it was absolutely essential, in the interests of our men fighting abroad, that they should leave these shores. The vessels were held up and shipping disorganized. Fortunately volunteer workers were available, and their prompt action alone prevented from being placed upon the name of Australia a stigma that would have been fatal to her future welfare. A short time ago this body of loyalist workers was practically disbanded and became unrecognized as a union. The Commonwealth Government, in its wisdom, compensated these men for their loss of employment. Unfortunately, several loyalist workers who lost their employment at Burnie received no compensation. One of these men - a married man - has suffered considerably. When the appeal was made for volunteer workers, he left his employment on a farm and worked for several years on the wharf at Burnie. He has a wife and family to support, and is now out of employment. This man should receive the same treatment as was meted out to the men in Sydney and Melbourne. He was told that he would have an opportunity of joining with other volunteer workers on . the wharf at Burnie iii unloading a vessel, which work would be continued after 12 midnight by unionists employed on other vessels during the day. He went to the wharfinger and applied for work, hut was told that if he were employed in the day-time unloading the vessel the unionists would refuse to work the ship after midnight. I wrote to the Prime Minister's Department, and the reply I received was that the man had the opportunity of joining the union. I know very well that if he joined the union his life would not be worth living. This man was just as loyal to Australia as were the men in Sydney and Melbourne, and should receive 'the same treatment. I am particularly interested in this case, as it is a hard one, and there were other men in the same position; but I urge that this loyalist worker should receive compensation for loss of work. 
I am pleased, indeed, to ascertain that the Government intends to fully investigate the position of Tasmania in conjunction with the consideration of the report and recommendations made by the Royal Commission on the effect of federation upon the finances of Western Australia. Most of us know the state of Tasmania's finances. Unfortunately, since federation her condition has been growing steadily worse. The reason is not far to seek. No country is able to progress when its people are unduly taxed. Tasmanians to-day are suffering from a crushing burden of taxation. That state, with one exception, on the basis of ability to pay, is the heaviest taxed state in the Commonwealth. 
I am not decrying it. The present condition has been brought about to a large extent by federation. Tasmania is isolated, and there is no regular communication with the mainland. 
The frequent strikes have helped to a great extent to bring about the present position. Tasmania has a population of about 220,000. During the last two years taxation has increased to a surprising extent, due mainly to the demand made by the Federal Treasurer that additional taxation should be levied in that state before a Commonwealth grant would be forthcoming. According to the Commissioner of Taxation's latest report, there are only 5,216 persons in Tasmania in receipt of over £350 a year, and in complying with the Federal Treasurer's demand for extra state taxation, a further burden of £130,000 a year has been placed upon them. 
The Commonwealth Treasurer demanded that additional taxation should he levied. 
A Government, when imposing taxation, cannot tax below the bread line. Few wealthy people reside in Tasmania, and yet that state is one of the finest in the Commonwealth. 
And why not? Tasmania's present position has been brought about largely because under the Commonwealth Navigation Act people on the mainland are not permitted to travel to Tasmania except by certain boats, and yet that state has to contribute to the Commonwealth revenue through the Customs to the same extent as have other states. I am very gratified that the Government has recognized the necessity to examine the financial position of Tasmania, and I hope that the investigation will prove beneficial. 
From the point of view of the Treasurer, Australia is very prosperous. In view of the high cost of living, and the fact that there will be such a big surplus at the end of the financial year, I think that the Government should increase the old-age pension to £1 a week. I am acquainted with many old-age pensioners, and I realize what the additional amount would mean to them. At a time when the Commonwealth is prospering we should make those who are dependent upon a pension as happy and as comfortable as possible. I do not think it is yet too late to suggest that the Government should seriously consider the possibility of increasing the pension. 
I was pleased to find in the Speech a reference to the necessity for giving attention to the development of the agricul tural industries of Papua and the Mandated Territories, and to learn that measures will be introduced providing appropriate means for increasing the production and encouraging the importation of articles grown in those Territories. I hope that effect will be given to that policy. I do not know in what way the Government proposes to encourage production, but I know from personal investigation, and from information gleaned from those who arc qualified to furnish it, that there is scope for a very large increase in the production of the Territories. At present, the majority of the plantations are under the control of the Expropriation Board, and an effort is being made to dispose of a number of them . In the Mandated Territories today there is a number of high-spirited, fine men who served during the war and who have lived there for some years. They know all the ramifications of tropical agriculture and the conditions that exist in the Territories. If they can be made permanent residents, they will prove exceedingly helpful to their development. I appeal to the Minister for Home and Territories  (Senator Pearce)to  give special consideration to the urgent necessity for having the Mandated Territories peopled by men of the right type. I was astonished to find such a keen desire on the part of many men who are in the full vigour of manhood to remain there. They have grown up with the development that has taken place during the last four years, and have had practical experience of the working of the plantations. But, as their capital is limited, they are likely to be shut out from the possibility of acquiring properties for their own use, and thus becoming permanent residents. 
It could give more liberal terms and still safeguard its own interests. Liberal terms given to the right type of man would be more beneficial than receiving a large deposit from the wrong type. I do not want any of these men to leave the Territory and go to other places to follow similar occupations. 
I am told that a certain deposit is required when a tender is put in for any property, returned soldiers being given the concession that they may make a smaller deposit than that stipulated in the case of other tenderers. The present deposit is too large for those men to whom I have been referring. I believe that the Government could retain control of the land in a way that would ensure the payment within two or three years of the amount of the deposit. 
That means that a man has to find £2,000 or £2,500. If he is in the full vigour of manhood, and has an irreproachable character, surely the Government ought to accept £1,000 if he is unable to make the deposit required. 
SenatorH. Hays. - Would it not be desirable to limit the area, so that such a large sum would not be involved? 
To he successful, a certain area must be held. I believe that these men are unable to find the amount necessary for the area they need. 
I endorse the suggestion that greater use should be made of the Institute of Science and Industry, but especially the proposal that the Institute should pay particular attention to the utilization of many of our waste products, which could he made valuable if scientific methods of treatment were applied to them. In England, there havebeen numerous instances of municipal and other expenditure havingbeen obviated because of the application of scientific methods to waste products which previously were destroyed. 
I hope that in this, the last, session of the present Parliament, the work of the Senate will be of great use to Australia. The united wisdom and effort of all political parties is necessary to bring about contentment and prosperity. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Guthrie)  adjourned. 
Senate adjourned at 6.3 p.m. 
asked the Minister for Markets and Migration, upon  notice - 
Has  the report of the committee appointed to inquire into the hop industry been received and considered? 
If so, -what action does the Government propose taking in connexion therewith? 
The report of the committee has been received, and will be dealt with by the Government at an early date. 
asked the Minister for Markets and Migration,  upon notice - 
What steps have been taken to assure a truly representative exhibition of Australian wool at the British Empire Exhibition at Wembley? 
Is it a fact that no fresh supplies of wool have been provided for this year's exhibition? 
If fresh supplies have been provided, how many fleeces have been sent, and from where? 
What steps have been taken to provide for a continuous supply of Australian fruit of good quality at the same exhibition, both for exhibition and sale? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow: -  1, 2, and 3. The wool shown in the Australian Pavilion at Wembley, 1924, consisted of scoured wool, and wool in various stages of manufacture. At the close of the Exhibition, all wool was removed and effectively cleaned, and, in addition, a number of other improvements to the wool trophy have been made. The fleeces sent Home last year were exhibited in dustproof glass cases, and were in excellent condition, and no replacement this year was necessary. The exhibit this year is a much improved one upon that of last year. 
Arrangements were made by the Department of Markets and Migration for specially selected parcels of fresh fruit to be despatched at intervals for exhibition purposes. Australian fruit sold in the pavilion must be of good quality, and approved by the Commonwealth representative at Wembley. Reports are that fruit is good and the sales are excellent. 
asked the Minister for Markets and Migration,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government, during the present session, to amend the law under which advances are made to growers of certain dried fruits, such as sultanas, lexias, currants, Ac, and, if so, will this amendment extend the scope of the Act to permit of advances* being made to the growers of other dried fruits, such as peaches, apricots, and similar fruits? 
The Government intends to introduce a bill to amend the Dried Fruits Advances Act 1924. The question of including in the amended bill fruits other th.au currants, sultanas, and lexias will be inquired into, and if there is justification for including these fruits within the scope of the bill, the matter will be carefully considered. 
asked the Minister for Markets and Migration,  upon notice - 
What results are being obtained under the new scheme of marketing Australian dried fruit in Great Britain? 
If favorable, will the Government consider the question of the Commonwealth Dried Fruits Control Board increasing the amount now paid to the producers by way of advances under the Export Guarantee Act? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works and Railways,  upon notice - 
Will he endeavour to expedite the inviting of tenders for the following works in Tasmania, in view of the problem of unemployment in that State being acute, viz. - 
Cygnet - Erection of post office. Penguin - Additions and alterations to post office. 
Smithton - Alterations to post office and erection of postmaster's residence. 
Triabunna - Erection of post office? 
Yes. 
The information desired by the honorable senator is being obtained, and will be supplied to him at an early date. 
asked the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
How many sites in Canberra have been leased for - 
Homes. 
Business. 
Other purposes. 
What are the total rentals for - 
Homes. 
Business. 
Other purposes. 
What is. the total area of the sites leased? 
The information asked for is not available in Melbourne. Inquiries are being made, and a reply will be furnished as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
What are the number, sex, and nationality of all people who have entered Australia as immigrants since 1st January, 1925? 
The information asked for is being compiled, and will be furnished as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General,  upon notice - 
What is the present position of the action between the Commonwealth Government and Messrs. Kidman and Mayoh in relation to their contract to construct two wooden ships? 
The honorable the Attorney-General supplies the following answer to the honorable senator's question :  - 
The matter is still the subject of litigation. Messrs. Kidman and Mayoh obtained leave from the Full Court of New South Wales to appeal to the Privy Council against the order made by the Supreme Court granting leave to the Commonwealth to enforce judgment. The Commonwealth appealed to the High Court against leave to appeal to the Privy Council being granted, and the High Court granted the appeal. Messrs. Kidman and Mayoh are now petitioning the Privy Council direct for special leave to appeal, and the Commonwealth is opposing such leave being granted. 
asked the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that visitors to Parliament House, Canberra, cannot gain admission to the diningroom of the hostel unless they are clothed in dress suits? 
The information asked for is not available in Melbourne. Inquiries are being made, and a reply will be furnished as soon as possible. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Did  Mr. Earle  Page, Federal Treasurer, make a statement in London recently to the effect that there was not more than 5,000 unemployed persons in all Australia, and that these persons . could obtain employment if they left the towns and went into the country ? If so, does the Government endorse that statement? 
I am advised by the Treasurer that his statement was to the effect that, as he left Australia, he did not think that there were more than 5,000 unemployed in Australia, and these could obtain employment if they went to the country to assist in gathering the harvest. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Did the Government, at the end of last session make financial arrangements in order to enable the private banks to finance wool purchasers? 
If so, was any advantage taken of those arrangements by the private banks? 
If not, and provided the Government have the money at their disposal, will they arrange to finance wool-growers on a percentage value of their wool to enable them to hold off the market until satisfactory prices are ruling? 
The honorable the Treasurer supplies the following answers to the honorable senator's questions: - 
No. The. Commonwealth Bank did, however, make arrangements which enabled the Commonwealth Bank and the other banks to finance wool and other primary products. 
Yes. 
The Government is considering the question of introducing legislation to facilitate the finance of all Australian producers. 
asked the Minister re presenting the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Are the Larkin-Sopwith Company fulfilling satisfactorily the terms of their contract for an aerial mail service between Adelaide and Sydney. 
When will the service be extended to Brisbane as originally provided for? 
The honorable the Minister for Defence supplies the following answers to the honorable senator's questions : - 
The Larkin Aircraft Supply Company is operating satisfactorily between Adelaide and Sydney in terms of its contract signed 5th October, 1023. 
No date can be given for the commencement of an aerial service between Sydney and Brisbane. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Were  tenders called for the right to publish the Telephone Directory? 
If so, how many tenders were received? 
What is the amount paid by the successful tenderer or tenderers for the right to publish the Telephone Directory? 
The honorable the Postmaster-General supplies the following answers to the honorable senator's questions : - 
The department retains the right to publish its Telephone Directories, but tenders were called for the right to publish a classified trade telephone book, a separate publication, in respect of Melbourne and Sydney. 
Two tenders were received. 
The successful tenderer offered £1,250 per annum. 
If the honorable senator wishes further information, I will get it for him. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Is he aware whether the withdrawal of licences to sell stamps from persons hitherto licensed for this purpose is causing much inconvenience to the public? 
Will he issue instructions at' once that, where any such inconvenience is apparent, licences be permitted to remain; or, in the case of licences having been withdrawn, that they will be restored without delay? 
The honorable the Postmaster-General supplies the following answers to the honorable senator's questions : - 
No. 
The action taken by the department is heing carefully watched so that public inconvenience shall not arise. - It is not the inten tion of the department to cancel all licences. Special consideration is being given to business premises that are open after usual post office hours, and the public interests will be conserved by allowing such licences to continue. 
I desire to congratulate the Government on its administration during the recess, when many developmental works were proceeded with to the advantage of the people of the Commonwealth. I also commend the Government for its adoption of a comprehensive programme of legislation based on broad and democratic lines as disclosed in the GovernorGeneral's Speech. The financial year is about to close, and never in the history of the Commonwealth has the position been so satisfactory. 
That is not so, and I shall prove my assertion later. The Commonwealth and State Savings Banks' deposits are a true reflex of the financial position of the masses, and not of that of the wealthy class, who, as the honorable senator well knows, use only the chequepaying banks. The statistics contained in the Commonwealth  Year-Book  reveal that the position regarding the percentage of the people who have credit balances in the Savings Banks is unprecedented in Australia, and unparalleled in any country. 
The returns show that no less than 64 per cent, of the  total men, women, and children of Australia have credit balances in the State Savings Banks, as distinct from other banks. When the Labour party was in power nothing like the same percentage of deposits obtained. The credit balances in the Savings Banks amount to £172,000,000. Since the advent of the Nationalist Government the figures respecting the number of depositors, the gross amount deposited, and the average amount deposited per head, have increased enormously. It is as well that that is so, because were the people not so prosperous they might be misled, and return to power at the next election a party pledged to socialism, and driven by outside organizations. 
The supporters of some honorable senators would like nothing better than to see a  revolu-"  tion in Australia. The Labour party is pledged to socialization of industry and the means of production and exchange. The people of Australia are well educated, sensible, and good thinking, and they do not want socialism, communism, or bolshevism, the last mentioned being the greatest curse that has arisen in the history of the world. Bolshevism is much worse than was the world war. One only needs to read the unbiased reports as to the conditions existing in Russia to realize the terrible plight of the people. Those conditions have been investigated by men representative of all countries, classes, and political beliefs, and they one and all hold up their hands in horror at the state of Russia owing to the advent of bolshevism. 
We know very well that a great deal of bolshevik propaganda is being spread throughout Australia to-day. Let mc remind honorable senators that under bolshevik rule torture precedes the murder of men, women, and children.  Senator Findley  need not laugh. 
It would be more appropriate if the honorable sena tor cried. Millions of men, women, and ' children have been tortured and murdered under bolshevik rule in Russia. 
I shall do that in good time, but it is well that honorable senators and the people of Australia should know the truth about bolshevism. I propose to give a few quotations from the writings of men and women who have visited Russia and have witnessed these horrors.  Maitre Aubert  of the Geneva bar, in  Bolshevism's Terrible Record,  writes : - 
For five months I have studied the distress and agony of the Russian people. I hare learned to know the ignominy of these butchers. To appreciate it one must have seen the sufferings of the Russian people, heard that endless moan that resounds from the Pacific Ocean as far as Poland, the moan of an enslaved and martyred people. One must hear the tragic . appeal which reaches us incessantly from a country of terror and death. I have travelled through their moribund villages and their ruined countryside. I have been in their dungeons. I have seen the ditches in which they have shot their victims. I have seen the misery of the multitude and the luxury of the rulers. 
Bolshevism is the biggest crime in history, the most outrageous attempt at the assassination of a whole people. Bolshevism brought slavery to Russia. - 
Never has there been so much inequality between the rulers and the enslaved masses. 
A great deal, as the honorable senator will learn before I have concluded my remarks. This should be sufficient to convince misguided sympathizers with bolshevism that the movement is one of the cruellest of autocracies, and should be condemned by all who are real democrats working for the uplifting of mankind. I should not have introduced this subject had it not been that exception was taken to some of my remarks on Empire Day. At the State schools and colleges at Geelong I and other public men on that day gave some patriotic speeches, in which we spoke of the history of the Empire. Addressing the students of the Gordon Institute of Technology, I exposed the horrors of bolshevism, and I was astounded at the action of the Official Labour party at Geelong, which passed a resolution condemning. ,me for what 
I had said. I may point out to honorable senators that the quotations I am making are quite up to date. Mademoiselle Odette  Keun,  who was a Dutch Communist, states: - 
I call upon the heads of European Governments in the name of all the dead - in the name of all the living still terrorized in Russia - ito make, as a preliminary condition to their negotiations, the modification of this atrocious internal, regime, which incarnates and which surpasses the hell dreamed of by the Middle Ages. 
Charles Crane, an ex-Minister of the United States Government, states: - 
I discoursed with Russians of all categories, and I speak the truth in asserting that everybody - from the East, so deeply Russian, to the west, rich in a variety of naturalized races - hates the pitiable Government of the Soviets. The Russians see their salvation only in the death of this regime. Russian sovietized is at the same time a prison and a lunatic asylum. 
Monsieur  Odier  'said in his protest to  Chicherin  : - 
Prompted solely  by  the dictates of humanity, the 'representatives of the Diplomatic Corps wish to. express, in the name of the Governments they represent, their profound indignation for the  regime  of terror established in  Petrograd  in Moscow, and in other Russian towns, solely to gratify class hatred. 
Yet we know that quite a number of men in this splendid democracy of Australia' are continually preaching and practising class hatred. Ferdinand  Ossendowski,  in his book,  Beasts, Men, and Gods,  writes - _i Watching this glorious withdrawal of the ice, I was filled with terror and revolt at seeing the awful spoils. These were the bodies of the executed - they were the result of the :bloody work of the " Cheka " at  Minnusinsk  Hundreds of these bodies with heads and hands cut off, with mutilated faces and bodies half burned, with broken skulls. 
I desire to warn honorable senators opposite. I do not say that they would approve directly or indirectly of any such acts by any people, but they should know what is going on in their own unions today. There is abundant proof that certain members of unions have openly espoused the cause of communism. One of them is a member of the Labour party in the Victorian State Legislature. 
Yes. We have no doubt as to where the communists' " No. 1 " votes go, but to whom do their second preferences' go? They certainly never have, and never will, vote for the Nationalist party, and we do not want their support.  Ossendowski.  who is a member of the French Academy, goes on to say - 
Near by stood a church with the windows broken, the crucifix' tern off, and the tower burned, a pitifully typical emblem of the Russia of to-day. 
The bolsheviks are robbing the peasants and killing every one who falls into their hands. 
One hundred millions. Before the bolsheviks came into power the population was 120,000,000. It means that since then 20,000,000 people have been tortured and murdered,  or have died of starvation. 
No. Russia has lost 20,000,000 people since the war. They have been murdered and starved. I do not know whether or not to call the communists the supporters of honorable senators opposite, but they do support the platform of the Labour party. Before the advent of bolshevism, Russia was one of the largest producers of grain in the world, but the Russian people are starving to-day, and the Soviet Government increased the price of wheat against the workers of the world by going into the market some months ago and putting up the price to 7s. a bushel. Russia used to be able to supply the people with cheap grain. War is bad enough, but communism and bolshevism are worse. 
Many of the communists have come into' the open in Queensland and New South Wales, and have supported the Labour party. Labour members do not like it, and I do not wonder at it. 
I shall not; but there are supporters of the honorable senator in Australia who ought to go there. It would be the best thing that could happen in the interests of this fair  country. 
The present Government is determined to develop Australia as a democracy, arid uphold the White Australia policy. This party desires our country to be developed as a great white democracy, and to prosper as a member of the commonwealth of free nations which comprise the British Empire. 
Yes. My chief quarrel with the Official Labour party, as constituted to-day, is that it has entirely changed its ideal and its platform. 
The people of Australia will never change as regards loyalty - they will always desire Australia to remain within the British Empire. There is nothing surer than that. I hope that the honorable senator who interjected is not so misguided as to think that the people of this country have any desire to be anywhere except within the Empire. The Government is prepared to " do its bit " in upholding and defending the White Australia policy. What did the Labour party in Great Britain do whilst it was in power ? One of the first acts of  Mr. Ramsay  MacDonald was to scrap the proposal to construct the naval base at Singapore, which is absolutely essential to the safety of Australia and New Zealand, and the protection of our trade routes in the Pacific Ocean. All experts agree that Singapore is the throat of the Pacific. The building of a base there was agreed to by the Washington Conference, the delegates to which realized that it was intended to be used for defensive purposes, and not for purposes of aggression.  Mr. Ramsay  MacDonald, who with his party was quickly kicked out of office in Great Britain, did not care a hang for the White Australia policy. He said that he did not believe in it. 
A " faked " letter be jiggered ! Surely the honorable senator has more common sense than to believe that? The first act of the Labour Government in Great Britain was a condemnation of the White Australia policy.  Mr. Ramsay  MacDonald said that he would not spend a farthing upon the base at Singapore. That action was not taken because he and his party were pacifists, and would not spend any thing upon defence. They were prepared to adopt the selfish, insular policy of spending millions upon an air force to defend the British Isles; but for Australia, New Zealand, and other parts of the Empire, they did not care a fig. They condemned holus bolus the White Australia policy, and declined to lift a finger to assist us to maintain that policy, which this Government is determined, shall be maintained. To that end an excellent defence policy has been formulated.  Senator Graham  says that the letter which was responsible for the downfall of the Labour party in Great Britain was a forgery. That party would have liked to prove that it was a forgery, but, on the contrary, it was proved up to the hilt that it was a genuine original document. I am surprised that any honorable senator in this great democracy should by word or action favour the attitude of cither the Russian Soviet or the Labour party in Great Britain, which was so anti-Australian in all its dealings. That Government not only flirted openly with Russia, but also plotted secretly to lend that country millions of pounds at a time when everybody knows it owed the British Empire millions of pounds that it had not the slightest intention of repaying. There are in this country persons who favour the repudiation of national debts. This Government is prepared to do its share towards maintaining the policy of a White Australia. It realizes that the Navy must be our first line of defence. Australia has a coastline of just on 12,000 miles practically undefended. It is one of the richest and most tempting prizes in the world. Any person who loves his country must be ready to defend it. The Government has a definite policy. 
Defence and immigration to enable Australia to be defended and developed. Apparently, honorable senators opposite do not believe in defence. Realizing that the Navy, must be the first line of defence, the Government has let a contract for the construction of two 10,000-ton up-to-date cruisers, which the terms of the Washington Treaty allow Australia to have. So successful was the Government in the matter ofcost that it was able to save £1,500,000 by building' both cruisers in Great Britian; and owing to this saving it proposes to build two sea-going submarines, and, also, in Australia, a seaplane carrier, and to subsidize the Government of the State of New South Wales in the building of a floating dock at Newcastle. In the development of aviation generally the Government has very rightly decided to encourage civil aviation, of which great use can be made. Civil aviation has been assisted in Western Australia and western Queensland, where it has been responsible for the carriage of mails, and the saving of a great deal of life in the remote portions of the state which lack medical conveniences and the ordinary means of communication. The Government intends to continue to encourage the expansion of civil aviation and the air force generally, and has spent a large sum at Point Cook. The Government further believes that it will be in the best interests of the people to create the nucleus of a highly-trained land staff in all its branches. It is not desirable to maintain a large standing army, but it is essential to have the nucleus of a highly-trained staff in case Australia should be attacked at any time. We have admirable material with which to raise a splendid army  that was proved by the deeds of the sons of Australia in the last war. The Government, and every right-thinking person in the community, naturally abhors war. It is a terrible thing, and I pray that it will not again be witnessed in any part of the world, let alone in Australia. But it would, nevertheless, be unmanly to neglect to prepare for defence. Not only is the Government training experts in all branches of defence, but it is also providing employment in the factories that have been established for the manufacture cf small arms, ammunition, gun carriages, and everything that is necessary for defence. 
It astonishes me that the honorable senator does not ask, " Why do you have a defence policy ? " There are a lot of people who wish to forget the war. The mothers, wives, and sweethearts of the 60,000 magnificent Australians who gave their lives and of the 100,000 odd who returned to Australia crippled and broken in health, in order  that  we- who remained behind might live in security, are not likely to forget the war. There are too many people who are preaching " Forget the war." 
I was not referring to any particular class or creed. 
I am jibing only at those people who would have us forget the sacrifices that were made by the Australian soldiers. I have on many occasions had made to me the remark, " Let us forget the war." We do not want to forget the sacrifices that were made by our soldiers. We must be in a position to defend this country should it be attacked. I should like honorable senators opposite to enunciate their defence policy for the benefit of the people of Australia. They have never indicated whether they have a defence policy, and, if they have, what it is. 
I should not say that regarding anybody in Australia. I have not insinuated that any class or brand of politicians is better than another; that would be the last thought that I would utter. I regret that I was unable to go to the war, but I do not castreflections upon any class or creed in relation to their sacrifices. What I do say is that this Government has a definite defence policy, and is pushing ahead with it. 
Why is that being done ? The Government called for tenders throughout the Empire, after having indicated most clearly that it would give preference to any firm in Australia, or to any firm outside Australia, that would come and establish here works for the construction of the cruisers. We, on this side, equally with honorable senators opposite, were anxious to have the cruisers constructed in Australia if that had been within the bounds of reason. 
I ask the honorable senator to be fair to me. I did not say anything of the kind, nor did I infer that Australians could not build cruisers. The hulls could be built here. The Australian workman is second to none. I take off my hat to him. He is more versatile and cleverer than any other. I have worked in industries alongside Australian workmen and those of other countries, and I would give the preference to the Australian workmen. I admire his ability. The honorable senator must know that £1,500,000 is being saved by having these cruisers constructed in Great Britain. 
In one way the honorable senator i9 quite right. I should be quite prepared to spend the extra money in Australia if by so doing we would assist to build up a new industry here. 
But the fact is that in the construction of a cruiser only half of the total expenditure goes on the hull. * It would be possible to build the hulls in Australia by installing a rolling-plant for the plates at a cost of from £750,000 to £1,000,000. . 
Even if it cost only £500,000 to install a rolling-plant for the necessary plates, it would not give employment for more than three months. 
Yes. We want a fleet to work in the closest co-operation with the British Navy. On our own, we could not keep off an enemy, but we can, at least, assist and work in co-operation with the British Navy. 
The plant required for rolling armoured plates is totally different from that used for rolling plates for merchant ships. By spending up to £1,000,000 to install a mill to roll armoured plates, we could, in Australia, build the hulls. But that represents only half the cost of the cruisers. The other half of the cost goes in equipping the vessels with guns and scientific instruments, which, even in the Mother Country itself, can only be supplied. by two firms there. If it had been possible to build these cruisers in Australia, and thus afford employment, and establish an industry, I would have been one of the first to say, " Never mind the £1,500,000 that would be saved to the taxpayers of Australia by having them built in Great Britain. It is better to establish a shipbuilding industry in Australia." But I realized that the building of cruisers of this description in Australia would not establish any industry in Australia, and would not afford any considerable employment. The Government has, I think, taken the right course in spending the £1,500,000 it has saved by having a seaplane carrier built at Cockatoo Island, and by subsidizing the Government of New South Wales to build a dock at Newcastle. Firstly, it has safeguarded the interests of the White Australia policy; secondly, it has had regard to the interests of the taxpayers of Australia; and, thirdly, it has taken steps to afford employment to as many people as is possible under existing circumstances. 
We are assured by the Government that it will be built in Australia. Honorable senators opposite do not appear to like the true position in regard to these contracts, and the policy of the Government being made known. They slur over the great saving of money that will be effected. They conceal the fact that it is impossible to equip and build the cruisers in Australia, and that had it been possible to do so, only 15 per cent, of the material used in their construction could have been drawn from Australian sources. The building of warships is not an industry we want to establish in Australia. 
Because only 15 per cent, of Australian material would, be used in their construction, aud because the employment afforded to Australians would bear no reasonable comparison with the total cost of construction. Are we not anxious, as business men, to have firm contracts drawn up for the building of these cruisers? Ought we not to be pleased to know that they will be built according to specifications, and delivered on a prompt date, and will not be obsolete when they are commissioned ? 
Where are the British Government getting their armour plate? 
They are getting it from Belgium, and possibly it is German. 
I did not say anything against it. 
Does not the honorable senator know that the British Admiralty has let big contracts abroad for  he  supply of armoured plates? 
Wait and see! 
Do not make any mistake about that. 
We do not care for them either. 
The royal commission appointed to advise, upon the method of assessing war pensions has approved of the provisions of the act and its administration. We all know that Australia's sons, who fought for right and Empire, and for our White 
Australia policy, were unsurpassed in valour by men from other parts of the Empire or from any other country. We pay homage to them. We are glad that the royal commission considers that the returned soldiers have been well treated. We know that Australia has treated them more generously and better than other countries have treated their soldiers. The amount of money spent on the repatriation of Australian soldiers up to date amounts to £150,000,000. I want to impress upon the public, and upon honorable senators, that I am not a soldier. One country " rag," said to be edited or partly owned by a Labour member in another place, insinuated that I was a one-legged man masquerading in the State of Victoria as a returned soldier. Although I am not a returned soldier, I am, nevertheless in close touch with the Returned Soldiers' Associations. I admit that we have treated the returned soldiers generously, but I shall never be satisfied that we have treated them well enough. It is absolutely beyond our power to repay them for their services. Although we have done so much for them, there still exist anomalies, which I am determined, as far a3 it be in my power, to straighten out.Senator Hoare. - There are a good many anomalies. 
The Commonwealth Government is anxious to- develop the northern parts of Australia. It has realized how material it is that something should be done to increase the population in that area. Active steps are being taken in this direction, and it is hoped that the states will co-operate. Money has already been expended in building roads and railways, and this work is giving employment to a large number of people. 
Respecting the construction of the north-south railway, I favour the eastern deviation both for developmental and defence purposes. Such a railway would open up better country, and link up with the railways of New South Wales and Queensland, running west and northwest. From a defence point of view it is utterly absurd to construct a line through the dead heart of Australia, although I admit that the Macdonnell Ranges comprise a. handful of good country. If it were necessary to defend the Northern Territory from, invasion, a direct route through the Territory would be useless. Adelaide would be the starting point, and troops, guns, and munitions would have to be transported there before being dispatched to the Territory. On the other hand, the eastern deviation would permit of troops, guns, and munitions being poured into the Territory from Rockhampton, Townsville, Newcastle, Sydney and Melbourne, and, in fact, from any part of the eastern states, where nearly all of our population is. 
If the honorable senator represented South Australia, would he still be in favour of the eastern deviation ? 
Good progress has been made with the development of the River Murray. Enormous sums have been spent on developmental works. Several locks have been built, and it has now been decided to increase the height of the  Hume Weir so as to conserve a greater expanse of water, and at the same time to generate electrical power from the spill-over. The  conservation and distribution of water are vital factors in the growth of Australia. , 
This Government was the first to make a road grant of £500,000 to the states. When the budget is brought down I hope that the grant will be increased to £1,000,000. I am strongly in favour of road development, because good roads are a national asset. They enable the settlers to get their produce to market, and, when necessary, can be used for defence purposes. I regret that any unemployment should prevail throughout Australia. The Federal Government has provided a lot of work on railway and road construction, and by giving the states large sums of money for road development; but in this regard, I want the amount to be at least doubled. Most of the unemployment is due to strikes brought about by  Mr. Tom  Walsh and  Mr. Johannsen.  The hold-up of shipping really means the hold-up of industry. The workers of Australia lost last year, owing to strikes, nearly £1,500,000 in wages. The agitators by their actions have almost strangled the shipping industry and more especially the Commonwealth Shipping Line. Has not Tasmania been ruined by strikes and the consequent falling off, year by year, of tourist traffic? 
What is the cause? 
There are 16,000 unemployed in Victoria. 
What is the nature of that institution? 
I am glad that the Government intends to re-organize the Institute of Science and Industry. A great deal of valuable work could be done in the development of liquid fuels. In South Africa I noticed that a spirit was manufactured, near Durban, from the waste products of the sugar-cane. It is known as  energol.  It can be manufactured for Sd. a gallon, and it is said to be as efficient as benzine. Personally, I deplore that the Government has not seen fit to retain the services of  Mr. Stirling  Taylor, a very energetic, patriotic, and capable gentleman. Look at the curse of noxious weeds! Is it realized that Queensland has under prickly pear a greater area than there is under cultivation in the whole of Australia? 
Splendid work has been done by the Postmaster-General's Department in the extension of telephonic and telegraphic communication, especially in rural districts. It is the duty of every Government to pursue a developmental policy in the country, for we must make the conditions of life on the land as comfortable and attractive as possible. Under the regime of the Postmaster-General  (Mr. Gibson),  the Department has spent a vast sum of money, and spent it well. It has entered into a contract for the erection of a beam wireless' station. -  [Extension of time granted.]  - I applaud the Government for what is being done in erecting wireless stations outback. Free wireless communication has been provided for ships trading with Australia, and this will be a great boon. The ship on which I returned from South Africa was unable to obtain wireless news from the Commonwealth, although I, as a loyal Australian, was thirsting for information about my own country. The captain told me it was too costly. All the wireless news we got came direct from Europe, and there was nothing about Australia. Now the Government has removed "this disability, and it is also duplicating the Pacific cable - a splendid work. I am surprised that honorable senators opposite are not generous enough to admit that the Government has done well, but when they realize how much has been accomplished in the recess, and what is proposed for the future, they will be impelled to acknowledge the Government's creditable record. 
The Tariff Board is, I believe, doing good work. It is investigating every case on its merits. I am a protectionist, but not a rule-of-thumb protectionist. I wish to see every case considered on its merits. Such protection as is necessary should be given to every industry that is efficiently managed. This Government has adopted that attitude, but it ia not willing to spoon-feed industries that are inefficient by placing a high protective wall around them. Some people are constantly asking for higher duties, although a high tariff wall must increase the cost of living. 

 Sitting suspended from 1 to 2 p.m. 

How does the honorable senator account for that? 
What effect would that have on the export of manufactured woollen goods? 
The shopkeepers will not show you Australian-made goods. 
The Government of Great Britain has granted preference to certain Australian products. That is the result of the excellent work which the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  did whilst he was in England. It will be worth hundreds of thousands of pounds a year to the producers in Australia. I think we should give every credit to the Prime Minister, who very worthily represented Australia. The Government has appointed an Export . Control Board to ensure the better .packing and marketing of Australian produce. That is very necessary, particularly in regard to the packing of Australian fruits. I believe that this board of experts will do good work, which will result advantageously to the producers and packers. 
The agreement which the Prime Minister has made with the Government of Great Britain in connexion with immigration is, I think, one of the most statesmanlike things that have ever been done for this great country. Australia will be loaned £34,000,000 on the most favorable terms. The Commonwealth Government, in turn, will lend that money to the states, which hold most of the land, upon terms that will make possible the development of Australia and the settlement of people upon the land. I hope that the states will take full advantage of this wonderful loan. If they do not work in the closest co-operation with the Federal Government, by placing people upon the land and assisting them in every way, it will be deplorable. 
I have nothing to say against unionism because I am a Labour man at heart. I am in favour of the worker, and I always have been. I am, and always will be, pro-worker, but anti-shirker. The present Government is passing more legislation and doing more good for the working people of this coun try than the Opposition has ever been able to do. The provisions of the Arbitration Act need tightening up, to assure the people of the country who want to work continuous employment and continuous means of communication by land and sea. I have referred already to the tremendous disadvantages suffered by Tasmania, a state that none of us should twit.  It has equal representation in this Senate with other states, but it has suffered terrible disabilities owing to strikes in the shipping industry. These strikes are always engineered at a time when the severest blow can be struck at Tasmania, just in the summer season when the people of that state rely so greatly on the tourist traffic. I cannot understand why the island should be singled out in this way by the strike leaders in the shipping industry. The extraordinary, autocratic,, mad actions of these men hit Tasmania in the height of the tourist season. 
I hope some scheme will be evolved to  try to alleviate suffering among all classes of the community. I think it would be a good idea to introduce a scheme of national . insurance against sickness, unemployment, and old age. It would be easy enough for me to attempt to catch votes by boldly declaring that I favoured an increase in the old-age pension to £2 a week. But I do not believe in charity: I believe in justice. I think we can best provide for these people by the passage of legislation on the lines of national insurance, and I hope the Government will give very careful consideration to the report of the royal commission. 
I have already said that the policy of the Government is definite, broad, democratic, _ and constructive. Have the 
Opposition any such policy ? Have they any criticism to offer? Have they wasted all their energies and time in learning a song to which I have already made reference ? In the United States of America steps have been taken to deal with bolsheviks and the red flag menace by the formation of a National Security League, which, in co-operation with other bodies, in a campaign of publicity has issued pamphlets of an educational character. The first plank in its platform contains the following: - 
The red flag means death, destruction, poverty, starvation, disease, anarchy, and dictatorship. 
Yet the Labour members sing the " Red Flag " in their room in this building. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I objected to this notice of motion being treated as formal because, in my opinion, the former practice, under which honorable senators had an hour and a half for lunch on Fridays is preferable. An hour is too short, especially on Fridays, when many honorable senators have business to attend to or constituents to meet, and require time during the luncheon adjournment to do so. If we were called upon to sit here considering legislation till 1  o'clock,  an adjournment of one hour only would mean a very hurried meal for those who have public business to transact. The curtailment of the luncheon hour is inconvenient to many honorable senators'. It is quite true that the adjournment at 3.30 p.m., instead of 4 p.m., suits the convenience of those honorable senators who have to leave earlier in the afternoon to join a boat or travel by rail to their own states, but I suggest that it would, be a comparatively easy matter to arrange for pairs to enable them to get  away. 
That has happened only on very rare occasions. 
I have been whip on this side of the Senate for about six years, and  I  know that pairs have seldom been refused. As far as I know,  Senator Cox  has not been inconvenienced in this way. But, apart from this consideration, I think the old system is the better one. An honorable senator does not require an hour and a half for lunch, but work which accumulates sometimes, can be attended to during the luncheon adjournment on Fridays. 
I hope the sessional order, as amended last session, will stand. It is a decided convenience, at all events to honorable senators from Tasmania, to be able to leave at 3.30. Whilst the Opposition have, generally speaking, been ready enough to grant pairs, honorable senators on this side of the chamber desire to be in their places until the conclusion of the business of the Senate for the week. It is not satisfactory for them to leave this chamber when very important business may be under discussion. Out of consideration for the Tasmanian members, as well as for those who have to leave for South Australia, I hope that the Senate will adhere to the satisfactory arrangement made last session. 
I  do not think Queensland has been considered in this matter. Honorable senators from that state cannot return to their homes for the week end.  I  did not rise to voice objection to the time allowed for luncheon hour on Fridays, but to direct attention to the hour fixed for the dinner adjournment on the other days of sitting. The Senate rises at 6.30 for dinner, and resumes at 8 o'clock. This may be convenient for those who take their meals here, or who live in proximity to Parliament House, but it does not suit those who may be living some distance away, and who wish to visit their homes.  It  would be very much better if the Senate adjourned at 6 o'clock, and resumed at 7.30 o'clock. 
The difficulty mentioned by  Senator Thompson  does not affect me, but I am aware that many other honorable senators like to go to their homes,, and with the adjournment at 6.30, it is about 7 o'clock before they get there. This leaves a big gap between the 1 o'clock luncheon adjournment and the evening meal. I realize that unless, the other House fell in with the proposed altera tion the whole of the meal arrangements in the refreshment room would be upset. However, I move as an amendment - 
That the words " 6.30 p.m. to 8 p.m. " be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words "6 p.m. to 7.30 p.m." 
If this is carried a further amendment to substitute 7.30 p.m. for 8 p.m. will meet the honorable senator's wishes. 
.- I hope that  Senator Foll  will withdraw his amendment. . Assuming that the proposed alteration is desirable, which I do not admit, this is not the way to make it. We must get the two Houses into line. The proper procedure is to bring the matter before the House Committee, because any change that may be made will mean an alteration of the arrangements in the refreshment room. 
A letter to the secretary of the House Committee  will bring the matter under the purview of that body without delay. 
Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
.- I move- 
That the Senate,  at  its rising, adjourn until Wednesday, 24th June. 
I do this because a motion of censure has been submitted in another place, and the debate is now proceeding. I hope that, before the date fixed for the resumption of Senate business, the censure motion will have been disposed of. In view of the possibility of the debate dragging on, I would have liked to invite the Senate to take a longer adjournment, because I . know honorable senators object to be called back, and then to be met with another motion for adjournment. But I am hoping that by the date named in the motion another place will have settled its differences. It is essential that  a  Supply Bill and a Loan Bill be passed before the end of the month, and we shall thus be left with a week to consider them. These two bills must be passed before the end of the financial year, and it is therefore necessary for the Senate to re-assemble the week after next. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
.- I take this opportunity to bring before the Senate a question that yesterday I put before the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral, and the answer that I received to-day. It relates to the withdrawal of licences from those who hitherto held licences to sell postage stamps. The question I asked reads as follows : - 
Is he aware whether the withdrawal of licences to sell stamps from persons hitherto licensed for this purpose is causing much inconvenience to the  public ?  , 
The Minister's answer was " No, the action taken by the Department is being carefully watched, so that public inconvenience shall not arise." I recently received from a resident of Tasmania  a  communication in which he states definitely that the portion of the town of Ulverstone known as Ulverstone West, on the west side of the Leven River, is from J mile to over 1 mile distant from the post office. The storekeeper at Ulverstone West for years held a licence to sell stamps. Recently the licence was withdrawn, and the residents there are now compelled to travel upwards of a mile to the post office to obtain stamps. I, therefore, cannot reconcile the answer made by the Minister with the information that I have received. Evidently a proper investigation was not made, since considerable inconvenience is being caused to the public at Ulverstone West. I have other but not so acute instances of the inconvenience caused elsewhere by the Department's action. I shall be glad to supply the Minister with particulars of the case to which I have referred. 
 I endorse what  Senator Payne  has said as to the inconvenience that has been caused by this action on the part of the Department. I brought a similar case before the notice of the Postmaster-General, and his answer was far from satisfactory. In Rockhampton there is  a  firm of booksellers whose establishment dates from the early history of that town. It is a reputable firm, and has sold postage stamps for years. It was the practice of many ladies to purchase their supplies of stamps at this shop, but now that privilege is denied them. After earning hundreds of thousands of pounds for the PostmasterGeneral's Department, this firm is now deprived of commission on the sale of stamps. I would point out that tobacconists' shops that are open at night are licensed to sell stamps, but ladies who wish to buy stamps have no wish to enter these premises occupied by men smoking, and with, perhaps, other objectionable features present. This question should be reconsidered with a view to restoring to the firm mentioned the licence to sell stamps. 
 I wish to. invite the attention of the Minister for Home and Territories to a position which has arisen in New Guinea regarding the sale of the feathers of the birds of paradise. It has been represented to me - and the representation is quite in accordance with fact - that while persons in the Mandated Territory under our control are debarred from dealing in the plumes of birds of paradise, others across the border, in Dutch territory, deal in them without restriction. In fact, we are protecting the birds of paradise in the area under our control, while our Dutch friends across the border are reaping substantial revenue therefrom. I suggest to the Minister for Home and Territories that he in- vestigate this matter with a view to repealing the legislation at present applying to the Mandated Territory, so that the residents there may enjoy the same privilege as that enjoyed by the residents of Dutch New Guinea. 
I . shall bring under the notice of the PostmasterGeneral the statements made by Senators Payne and Thompson. 
I wish to state, in reply to  Senator Grant,  that it must be obvious that unless we allow the wholesale destruction of birds of paradise, the prohibition on the collection of plumes must continue. The natural beauty of the bird makes it essential that it should be protected. We deplore the fact that the Dutch are not enforcing a similar prohibition in their territory. In view of the extent of New Guinea, I should imagine that the proper protection of the birds io our area will prevent them from becoming extinct. After all, birds seems to have a wonderful knowledge of protected areas. This is very noticeable in the case of wild duck, which during the shooting season are seen in hundreds near the city at such places as the ponds in Queen's Park, Moonee Ponds, and the Botanic Gardens. I have no doubt that birds of paradise have a similar instinct of selfpreservation.No good reason has been shown why the prohibition should bo withdrawn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjournedat  2.54  p.m. 
In view of the fact that a motion of want of confidence has been tabled in another place on the Supply Bill, the Government does not propose to proceed with any business in the Senate to-day. I therefore move- 
That theSenate do now adjourn. 
This is not the first intimation I  have  had of the fact that the Government has decided to regard as a censure motion an amendment moved on a Supply Bill in another place, quite irrespective of what the result may  be;  but I think the Senate will not do justice to itself, or to those who sendus here, if it adjourns as suggested. There are many matters that could very easily be discussed with advantage by this chamber at the present time. Therefore, I protest against the proposal to adjourn for the reason given. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sena te adjourned at 3.6 p.m. 

 . - (Byleave.) - I take this opportunity to submit to honorable senators a brief report of the operations of the commission appointed to control Australia's display at the Wembley Exhibition, London, in 1924, because I claim that the services rendered by the commission are worthy of some recognition. It will be admitted by all that the exhibition was an excel lent advertising mediumfor Australia, and that the results achieved were of immense value to us. Our display of primary products in particular served to educate the people on the other : side of the world ; it showed them that the Empire could feed itself . The personnelof thecommission was as follows: - 
President. 
Prime Minister. 
Vice-Presidents. 
Treasurer. 
Ministerfor Trade and Customs. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Markets and Migration been drawn to a circular issued by those who are engaged in the dried fruits industry with reference to their position ? If it has, does the Government intend to take any steps in the matter  
I have had the circular before me. There are in it many matters that the Government a considerable time ago took in hand and is now looking after. There are others that art receiving attention, and as early as possible a reply will be forwarded to the association. 
Has the Leader of the Senate received replies to the following questions that, on the 12th June last, I asked on behalf of  Senator Gardiner  :  - 
What is the amount of reparation that has been paid to Great Britain by Germany? 
What is the amount that Australia has received on account of her share? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following replies: - 
No satisfactory or up-to-date information is available in respect of the amount of reparation paid to Great Britain by Germany. 
The amount received by Australia is £135,4751s.1d. 
Can the Leader of the Senate yet supply the information I sought in the following question that I asked on the 12th June last:- 
What are the number, sex, and nationality of all people who have entered Australia as immigrants since the 1st January, 1925? 
The following statement gives particulars regarding the number, nationality, and sex of all persons arriving in the Commonwealth from the 1st January, 1925, to the 30th April, 1925 : - 

<graphic href="110332192506255_2_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="110332192506255_2_1.jpg"></graphic>

The following figures show the departures, as compared with the arrivals, of Greeks, Jugo-Slavs, and Maltese during the three months ended 30th April, 1925 :  - 

<graphic href="110332192506255_2_2.jpg"></graphic>

Has the Minister for Home and Territories answers to the following questions that I asked on the 12th June, 1925:- 
How many sites in Canberra have been leased for - 
Homes.? 
Business? 
Other purposes? 
What are the total rentals for - 
Homes? 
Business? 
Other purposes? 
What is the total area of the sites leased? 
The answers are as follow: -  1. (a) One hundred and fifty-one. 
Sixty-one. 
None. 2. (a) £1,775 4s. per annum. 
£2,232 2s. per annum, 
Nil. 3.111 acres0 roods 1 pole. 
Has the Minister for Home and Territories an answer to the following question that I asked on the 12th June last: - 
Is it a fact that visitors to Parliament House, Canberra, cannot gain admission to the diningroom of the hostel unless they are clothed in dress suits? 
The reply is- No. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the Commonwealth Government suffered any loss of money in the Mandated Territories of Rabaul? 
If so, when was the loss discovered and what was the amount? 
If a loss hasbeen sustained, what steps have been taken, if any, to discover the cause of same, and the officer or officers responsible? 
The Prime Minister has supplied the following reply :  - 
A sum of money was stolen from the Treasury, Rabaul, on the might of the 19th-20th February, 1925. 
The loss was discovered on the morning of the 20th February. The amount lost was £922 13s. 9d. 
An official inquiry was held into the matter, as a result of which two officers of the Treasury were charged with negligence in the performance of their duties. One of the officers was fined, and the other was reduced in status, but has appealed against the decision. The matter is in the hands of the Rabaul police, but, so far, the person or persons who stole the money have not been discovered. A reward of £100 has been offered by the Administration for information leading to the conviction of the person who stole the money. 
asked the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that private planters in the Mandated Territory of New Guinea have to pay an education tax at the rate of 9s. per annum per employee? 
What is the nature of the education, if any, imparted to the employees on account of this payment? 
What is the total amount of education tax for the last financial year? 
How was it expended? 
Yes. 
The proceeds from the education tax are used for the elementary and technical education of the natives of the Territory generally, and are not applied exclusively to the education of native labourers. 
The information will be obtained. 
All amounts collected as education tax are credited to the Native Education Trust Fund, and may only be expended for the general and technical education of natives, and for purposes having for their object the direct benefit of the natives. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is he aware whether officers of the Commonwealth Public Service have suffered financial losses through forfeiture of their insurance policies at the inception of the superannuation fund? 
Has the position of these officers been placed before the Treasurer by deputations representative of the Commonwealth Public Service? 
If so, will the Treasurer indicate the attitude of the Government in regard to the losses, if any, sustained by theseofficers through forfeiture of their insurance policies? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following reply :  - 1 and 2. It was represented by a deputation which waited upon the Treasurer about two years ago that officers had suffered losses through forfeiture of insurance policies. 3, The Treasurer is still awaiting information, which the deputation undertook to give him, as to the number of officers affected and the losses sustained. 
When was the appointment made to the position of Draughtsman, ClassE, Third Division, Lands and Survey Branch, Melbourne, as advertised in  Commonwealth Gazette  No.59, of the 21st August, 1924? 
Was the successful applicant an officer of the Commonwealth or State Public Service? 
Was such appointment made contrary to the terms and conditions of the advertised position ? 
Was the appointment made under section 47 of the Commonwealth Public Service Act 1922? 
Does the Public Service Board of Commissioners, when making these appointments under section 47. of the Commonwealth Public Service Act 1922, decline to hear any appeal from permanent officers of the Commonwealth ? 
The Prime Minister has supplied the following reply: - 
The Public Service Board's recommendation to the Governor-General for appointment to the position was dated the 29th January, 1925, but, for departmental reasons, the appointment has not yet been made. 
No. The successful applicant was a returned soldier, temporarily employed. 
The vacancy was advertised as being open to applicants from within the Commonwealth and State Public Services, but as no such applicant was found to be suitable, a person was appointed from outside those services. 
The appointment was recommended to be made under section 47 of the Commonwealth Public Service Act 1922-1924. 
No appeal lies against an appointment made under the section named. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works and Railways,  upon notice - 
What is the estimated cost of equipping the narrow-gauge Commonwealth line, Port Augusta to Oodnadatta, with rolling-stock? 
What amount has been expended up to the present time? 
In designing carriages, brake vans, freight wagons, and sheep and cattle vans, has a standard for wearing parts, such as boxes, draw-bars, brakes, &amp;c, been established? 
If not, why; and who is responsible for the carrying out of this work? 
The information will be prepared and laid upon the table of the Senate in the form of a return. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Is there a regulation in existence giving the Australian Military Forces power to demand from cadets, when entering places of detention for non-attendance at drill, such articles as pipes, tobacco, and cigarettes-, and not again to return them to the person from whom they were taken? 
If there is not any such regulation in force, will the Minister endeavour to see that such a practice is discontinued? 
The replies are - 
The regulations provide that it is an offence for a Senior Cadet to have in his possession cigarettes or material for making cigarettes when in. uniform on duty or in any place used for military purposes. Further, no Senior Cadet is permitted under the regulations to use tobacco in any form in those circumstances, or to have it in his possession, unless the parent or guardian has notified his consent in writing to the commanding officer. The regulations also prohibit the use of tobacco in any form by both soldiers and Senior Cadets under detention. In order to give effect to these regulations, instructions provide that on arrival of trainees at detention camps, they are to be deprived of tobacco, cigarettes, and matches. 
I do not know of any practice of retaining the articles taken away from the cadets on their arrival in camp. Any particular case reported will be investigated. 
asked the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
In view of the answer given in another place that copies of the report of the Canberra Commission to 31st March could be made available to members on application, will the Minister for Home and Territories make copies available to members of the Senate; if so, when? 
Copies of the report referred to will be made available to-day. 
asked the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
Have representations been made to the Dutch Government with a view to its prohibiting dealing in the plumage of birds of paradise; if so, what was the reply? 
Will the Government make further representations to the Dutch Government with a view to the adoption of the policy in this regard in force in Papua and in the Mandated Territory of New Guinea? 
The replies are- 
No. Advice was received from the Netherlands East India Government that an area near the boundary between Papua and Dutch New Guinea had been closed against the shooting of birds of paradise and crown doves. Representations were thereupon made on behalf of the Administration of New Guinea, with a view to a' large area adjoining the boundary between the Mandated Territory and Dutch New Guinea being closed against shooting of birds of paradise and crown doves. The Netherlands East India Government was not prepared to close the whole of the area suggested by the Administrator of New Guinea, as it considered that the effect of such action would be to completely paralyze the trade in birds of paradise in Hollandia. It proposes, however, to close a modified area in the vicinity of the New Guinea boundary. 
The matter will receive consideration. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
In view of the expressed determination of the Commonwealth Shipping' Board not to agree to the inclusion of a clause in the articles of agreement with the seamen, guaranteeing the rates and conditions prior to deregistration, and in view of the consequent trouble that might ensue, will the Government instruct the board to do so? 
The Prime Minister has supplied the following reply : - 
The Commonwealth Shipping Board is charged by Parliament with the responsibility of running the line, and the Government is not in a position to interfere in matters of internal management, and does not propose to do so. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the Government considered the question embodied in a resolution passed by the House of Commons relative to British women who marry aliens being allowed to retain their nationality if they so desire? 
If so, is at the intention of the Government to bring in legislation this session providing for Australian women who marry aliens being permitted to retain their nationality as Australians if they so desire? 
The Prime Minister has supplied the following replies : - 
Yes. 
No. The Commonwealth having adopted Part II. of the British Nationality and Status of Aliens Act, any legislation by the Commonwealth in -the direction indicated would need to be preceded by amending legislation by the British Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
What were the terms of the contract regarding the chartering-  of  the  Huddersfield  and  John Alee  for  Commonwealth service? 
Is this contract still in existence;  if  not, when was it terminated and under what conditions? 
What amount has been paid to the owners of these vessels to date?' 
What was the amount of extra, money paid to the owners of these vessels  (if  any;, apart  from  money received under the terms of the original contract, in connexion with the search  for  the survivors of the  Douglas Mawson  in the Northern Territory? 
The replies are- 
By an agreement made on the 2nd June, 1924, between the Commonwealth of Australia and the Boucaut Bay Company, the company contracted to provide an efficient coastal shipping service in the Northern Territory between Darwin and the usual landing stations at Roper River, Borroloola, Victoria River, and all intermediate ports. The agreement was  for  a period of three years  from  the 21st April, 1924, and the annual subsidy was £6,000. 
No. It was terminated as  from  the 31st March, 1925, on the ground that the agreement was not being carried out in accordance with its true intent and meaning. 
Payment, under the contract, £5,661 5s. lOd. 
£1,014 16s. 7d. 
asked the Honorary Minister,  upon notice- 
Is it the intention  of  the Government to continue to maintain the hospital at Keswick, South Australia,  for  the use  of  returned soldiers, as at present, with a staff  of  doctors and nurses who served in the late war? 
Yes, at present. The buildings now being used will be required for defence purposes later, and consideration is being given to the question of making other satisfactory arrangements for the treatment of returned  soldiers in South Australia suffering from war disabilities. 
asked the Honorary Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to close the Keswick Returned Soldiers' Hospital in South Australia and have returned soldiers suffering from war disabilities treated at the Adelaide or other hospitals  in  future? 
If the (hospital is to be closed, will the Minister say why? 
It is not the intention of the Government to close the Repatriation General Hospital at Keswick at present. The buildings now used will be required for defence purposes later, and the question of the provision of suitable hospital accommodation elsewhere is receiving consideration. 
See answer to No. 1. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has he seen a statement in the press recently to the effect that  Mr. Ramsay  MacDonald, the leader of the British Labour party, made a speech in condemnation of the White Australia policy? 
If so, Stave steps been taken to ascertain whether these are the -views of the British Labour party? 
Is any action being taken to counteract propaganda of this description in Great Britain ? 
The replies are- 
I have seen the press report of a speech by  Mr. Ramsay  MacDonald referring to the White Australia policy as a possible danger to the Empire. 
lt is not proposed to take action in this direction. 
The honorable senator may rest assured that any - actions or statements calculated to detrimentally affect the White Australia policy will be vigorously combated by this Government, but it does not regard the speech of the gentleman referred to as propaganda against Australia's settled policy. 
I move- 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
The Senate has only two days in which to pass this bill if the money is to be made available before the end of the present financial year. I have no desire to curtail debate in any way, but if the ordinary formal procedure is followed, three days will be required to pass the bill. Honorable senators will, therefore, see that at some stage the suspension of the Standing Orders will be necessary. 
It is not the desire of honorable senators on this side of the chamber to impede the passage of the bill, but we consider it a strange procedure to move for the suspension of the standing and sessional orders at this stage. Although it is sometimes convenient to adopt such a course towards the end of a session, action such as is nowbeing taken should be unnecessary considering that Parliament has been in recess for over seven months. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber have not done anything to interfere with Government business. We remained silent during the debate on ,the AddressinReply, and have been waiting for the Government to introduce business for our consideration. Had Parliament been called together earlier than the 10th June there would have been no necessity to rush a Supply Bill through as is now intended. Personally I object to the procedure so early in the session, and wish to enter my protest against a bill authorizing the expenditure of over £4,000,000 being passed without honorable senators having sufficient time to discuss important items in -the schedule. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
As the motion for the first reading of a Supply Bill gives honorable senators an opportunity to discuss important questions, it is my intention to bring forward two or three matters of public interest, one of which is the construction of two cruisers in Great Britain. 
 Is not the honorable senator rather late? 
As efforts are being made by the  President  of the United States of America and the Prime Minister 'of Great Britain to convene another conference to deal with the question of further disarmament, and in view of the early sitting of the League of Nations, it is the opinion of the Senate that expenditure upon naval construction should be deferred for the present. 
That amendment was negatived. The Leader of the Opposition in this chamber  (Senator Gardiner)  when the Defence Equipment Bill was before us, moved an amendment to the effect that if money was to be spent on the construction of cruisers it should be spent in Australia. That amendment was also negatived. The whole matter was discussed in Parliament, and a good deal of publicity was given in the press to the question of whether the vessels were necessary for the defence of Australia, and if they were, where they should be built. So strong was the criticism levelled against the proposal to build even one cruiser in Great Britain that the Prime Minister in speaking in the House of Representatives said - 
Upon this measure the House must come to a decision regarding the first cruiser, but no decision will be arrived at in regard to the second cruiser until the whole of the facts and circumstances have been again placed before the House, and the House has had an opportunity of expressing its views upon them. 
Since Parliament re-assembled the Prime Minister has denied making that statement. 
 Oh, no! 
 That promise was fulfilled. 
 No decision will be arrived at . . . until the whole of the facts and the circumstances have been again placed before the House. 
Honorable senators will recall that at the time there was a discussion as to ihe probable cost of one or two cruisers, the length of time likely to be occupied m their construction, and whether or not the work could be undertaken in Australia. How can it be said that all the facts could be known until tenders had been called? When the Prime Minister  made that statement, he himself was not in possession of all the information.  Even  Sir John  Monash, who was called in 10 assist the Government, admits that he did not know all the facts. Therefore, I contend that, notwithstanding the explanations made by the Prime Minister and other members of his Cabinet, the promise which he gave to the people of Australia has not been fulfilled. The Prime Minister went on to say that when he was -in England he was informed that the cost of building a cruiser would be £1,900,000, and that it would take two years to construct. I mentioned, just now, that the services of  Sir John  Monash were enlisted to assist the Government in coming to a decision. I know of no man more fitted for that work than  Sir John  Monash, and I again emphasize that he admitted it was impossible to formulate any reliable estimate on the information placed at his  disposal, although he had gone into the matter very thoroughly. The Prime Minister stated further that when he was in Great Britain he was pressed by Mie British Government to consent to thebuilding of a cruiser there. Unemployment was very acute, and the British Government was anxious to do all that was possible to relieve it. I remind the "enate that unemployment is still rife in Great Britain, and that it is also a problem in Australia, The Government, we are told, placed the contract for both cruisers in Great Britain because this meant a saving in cost as compared with the estimate furnished by Cockatoo Island Dockyard. Britain to-day has let contracts  to  European firms to build £1,000,000 worth of vessels, owing to the fact that they can be constructed more cheaply abroad. It was suggested, in newspaper reports, that when in Great Britain the Prime Minister agreed that both cruisers should be built in .the Mother Country. I do not suggest that the reports were true, but, undoubtedly, some influence was brought to bear on the Prime Minister in the matter. It is interesting to recall some of his promises. Here is one - 
The question of where the second cruiser shall be built will be submitted to the determination of the House when the general defence policy is put before us. 
The Prime Minister went on to say - 
When the Defence Estimates were before the House I gave an explicit undertaking that whilst the passing of the bill would be regarded as  an  endorsement of the policy of the 
Government to construct two 10,000- ton cruisers, no action would be taken to let the contract for the second cruiser until the House was afforded a further opportunity .of considering the matter. 
That promise has not been fulfilled, either in the letter -or in the spirit. Further, the Prime Minister said, in regard  to  a statement made by the honorable -member for Dalley  (Mr. Mahony),  in another place - 
I most certainly give the honorable member for Dalley my assurance that the fullest opportunity will be given to the House to discuss the question of where the second cruiser shall be built. When the Defence' Equipment Bill was being considered I gave the undertaking that the Government would not take any action in regard to the second cruiser until the House had had a further opportunity to 'discuss the matter. 
So much for the Prime Minister. I come now to a statement made by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce).  On 28th August, 1924,  Senator Pearce,  referring to the report furnished by  Sir John  Monash, said - 
I said that the report would be placed  before  Parliament together with a statement as to the intention of the Government in time to enable Parliament to express an opinion thereon. 
This Senate has not had an opportunity to discuss the building of the second cruiser. 
Yes.  Sir John  Monash's report was presented long before the Defence Estimates came on for discussion. 
I am fully conscious of the necessity for maintaining in Australia a first-class engineering yard, capable of effecting major repairs to ships in time of war. One of the strongest arguments for the building of the second cruiser in Australia is that it will maintain at Cockatoo Island an efficient -ship-building and repairing yard. The workmanship of the  Adelaide  compares most favorably with that in any ship of the same class in the British  NAVY 
I have visited Cockatoo Island Dockyard  on  many occasions, so I am well acquainted with that ship-building establishment. I also have a good ' knowledge of John Brown and Company's shipyards at Clydebank, where, many years ago, I was employed for three years helping to build naval and merchant ships of various tonnage. I make no reflection upon the firm or its equipment. Although it- is twenty years since I worked there, I have kept in touch with people engaged in the shipbuilding industry in Great Britain ; and, with the actual working knowledge I possess, I claim that the plant at Cockatoo Island compares favorably with that which is in use in the yard that has been given the contract for these cruisers. It may be necessary to spend a little money to bring Cockatoo Island up to date. 
I am- therefore definitely of the opinion that we have no reliable figure of the price in Great Britain of a modern 10, 000-ton cruiser with which to compare any Australian cost. We cannot be certain,' even approximately, that both amounts would- refer to one and: the same type of vessel. 
No other man in. Australia was more capable of making this- inquiry, and the words of  Sir  John Monash are definite enough. 
We had first to persuade the honorable senator and his party that cruisers should be built. 
The £818,000 will be circulated in Australia in the building of a seaplane carrier. 
The Western Australian Government has bought a vessel built in England. 
Buying ships abroad is not an Australian defence policy. Therefore,  Mr. Brace's  pleading is empty and vain.  His  economics are false. Hia defence theories are Imperial rather than Australian. 
From a Government that is squandering unproductive millions, and tacitly inviting each avaricious trading interest to come as mendicant for public largesse, the excuse is strange and detestably hollow. 
The boasted saving is a sham and a delusion. Before there can .be real Australian defence this country must be able to make the things by which it is to be defended. The basis of defence is industry. 
No Australian of Australian heart and mind will endorse the action of the Government in turning its back upon its own country. No authority on defence, unless he is a false one basely courting political favour, will deny that the capacity to produce the essentials of defence is the basis of real defence. 
Australia will be loyal to Great Britain to the end. Her national hopes lie always within the Empire. Nevertheless she has national spirit enough to resent the action of her own Ministers in degrading her to the status of a helpless tribute-paying dependency. 
I commend those criticisms to my honorable friend,  Senator Guthrie,  who last week very loudly professed his adherence to the principle of " Australian goods for Australian people." I admired his candour and his devotion to that principle. I hope that he will as zealously advocate the principle that the construction of Australian boats should be given to Australian workmen. 
I pass for a moment from the. question of the construction of the cruisers to deal with the . important matter of immigration, with which is closely allied the question of unemployment. In every state in. the Commonwealth there are at present large numbers of unemployed. During the last few months there has bean a big influx of foreign migrants into Australia.. The census taken in 1921 showed that in that year there were 159,000 unemployed. If a census were taken to-day, it would be found that that number had been considerably augmented. Foreigners are coming to Australia and taking the places of our workmen. That fact cannotbe denied. The majority of these men go directly to employment in different parts of Australia.. Yet in the press, yesterday morning, appeared the statement thatin the city of Brunswick, that is within easy distance of this Parliament, there are 4,000 unemployed men and women. 
The Australian, in a large number of cases, prefers to stay in the streets, whilst, on the contrary, the aliens go into the country. 
British, 20;870; average per month, 6,960. 
Greeks, 408; average per month, 136. 
Yugo Slavs, 636; average per month, 212 
Italians, 2,385; average per month, 795. 
With regard to the Italians, the exPremier of New South Wales,  Sir George  Fuller, on one occasion, read in the New South Wales Parliament a statementthat he had received from, the Prime. Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  to the effect that by an arrangement with Italy, only 100 immigrants a month were sent to Australia. Despite this statement, the average for the first three months of this year was approximately 800. 
During the last three months, more Greeks and Yugo slavs have left Australia than have come in. 

 Mr. Mifsud continued ; 
I, therefore, took the unorthodox course of unofficially requesting the personal help of  Colonel Amery,  who at once took up the matter on our behalf with  Mr. Bruce. 
The result of these negotiations was that the 260 quota was abolished, and practically the only restriction now - if it can be termed a restriction - is that not more than twenty migrants shall land from the same vessel or during the same month in any port. What change came over the Commonwealth Government after the 17t.h October, 1924? 
If the honorable senator inquires as to the number of ships by which these migrants may enter Australia, he will see that the quota was not increased. 
The honorable senator has placed a wrong construction on these things. 
I have pointed out that the majority of presentday migrants to Australia are mainly going to assured work. 
One of the conditions "of the understanding is that work for them must be guaranteed by some one here. 
The guarantees are provided by individuals, and not 'by the Government. 
Our attitude is that indigents should not be allowed to enter Australia to swell the ranks of the unemployed. 
Do they get no revenue from these new-comers? What about the  per capita  payments ? 
Clause 2 of the proposed agreement clearly points out that for every principal sum of £75 issued to a State Government, an assisted migrant must be received into and satisfactorily settled. 
That means that for each migrant land must be obtained, .and the migrant satisfactorily settled thereon, or permanent employment found for him. The latter condition is causing some concern in Western Australia at the present time, as to guarantee permanent employment 13 a big obligation to be cast upon the state. No Premier would be justified in giving that guarantee, and accepting the resultant responsibility, without first giving the matter very careful consideration. The article continues - 
Under clause 7 the state must provide one farm for every £1.000 of principal sum issued to the state. Experience proves that the cost of providing a new settler with a farm is usually nearer £3,000, and that frequently actual 'failure or heavy loss is recorded. The British Government, however, specifically limits responsibility in respect to such losses to £100. 
How do the states propose to settle immigrants on the land? As everybody knows, and as. experience during the last decade proves up to the hilt, the state is the most inefficient organizer of settlement. 
A state cannot purchase land with this cheap money, however, unless it reserves half of such land for migrants, and agrees to train them, the cost of the training not to be paid out of the cheap money. 
Another clause entails a heavy responsibility. It  provides - 
That in any case assisted migrants shall be found suitable employment in Australia at the same rate of wages as Australians of similar experience. 
In depressed periods, which must occur, the agreement binds the Commonwealth to guarantee employment to migrants. 
The more we study this problem the more we are impressed with the necessity of exercising the greatest care in connexion with the proposed agreement. "We should be very careful as to the class of migrants coming to Australia, and should also be sure that suitable land on which they can settle is available. I have had experience of the Western Australian scheme in operation under the Mitchell Government, when people were brought- from Great Britain ostensibly t&amp; go on th© land. They went on the land for about a fortnight, but at the end of that period were to be found in Perth swelling the ranks of the unemployed. Before we commence to encourage people to migrate from Great Britain or from any other country with the object of settling on the land here, we should first endeavour to cope with our own unemployment trouble, which occurs winter after winter in every state in the Commonwealth. We are faced with an unemployment crisis to-day, and little is being done to relieve the hardships experienced by many deserving people. We are entirely overlooking the fact that it is our duty to find employment for our own people, and at the same time are asking thousands to come out here who will only accentuate the trouble. Speaking on this matter, the ex-Prime Minister  (Mr. W. M. Hughes)  on one occasion said, " To cry for more men and to decline to employ those already here is folly, or worse." The Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce),  on the 17th September, 1924, said, "It is no use to increase our population unless every individual who enters the Commonwealth becomes a productive unit." That is sane advice, but I jim afraid that under the proposed agreement the wish of the right honorable gentleman will not be realized. I presume the Prime Minister's statement means that, if a person, is to become a productive unit, he must be in employment of some kind. The members of the Labour party have always advocated that people should not he brought to Australia unless work can be found for them, as every man out of work in any country is an economic danger and an economic loss. This aspect of our migration scheme should be reviewed very carefully before the agreement is signed. In a country such as Australia, with its great natural resources and possessing, as it does, everything necessary for the well-being of man, we should not have this awful curse of unemployment, and we would not, if we had the courage to tackle the problem in a proper way. 
It occurred long before that. 
Job control was introduced twelve months before that. 

 Mr. Walsh, and could well have omitted any reference to that man's child. For  the information of the Senate, I quote a few figures which are of interest in the matter of unemployment - 
That shows that since the influx of migrants in 1919 the number of unemployed hae increased, and the percentage of unemployed to the membership of unions has also increased. 
 According to those figures the percentage of unemployed increased when immigration fell off. 
 Hear, hear ! Does the honorable senator's party believe in compulsory training ? 
 But men must  he  trained. 
I have only one other matter to refer to before I .resume my seat. I have noticed that, since the appointment of the Commonwealth Bank Board, the rate of interest charged by the bank has increased. Up to the 31st December, 1923, the rate was 6 per -cent. ; up to the 31st December, 1924, it was 6 J per cent..; and from 1st. January of this year it has been 7 per cent. 
I thank honorable senators for their attentive and courteous hearing. I have mentioned one or two matters which, I think, are of importance to the people of Australia. I have shown conclusively (that in connexion with t'he 'building 'of  the  'two  cruisers  the Government has not honoured its promise to the Parliament and the people.. The time is not far distant when the Government will have to face a jury, -not of its peers,, but of its masters,, and I feel confident that when Ministers have given an account of their stewardship the verdict at the ballot-box will be that they have been guilty of a betrayal of Australian national  senti-  ment and Australian national ideals. 

 Senator GRANT (New South Wales) [4.551. - This bill gives me an opportunity to make a few remarks with regard to the Commonwealth Bank. Figures published in the  Government Gazette  show that the bank is retrogressing. As honorable senators are aware, the operations of the bank are conducted under two headings - ordinary banking business and savings bank business. The bank was established, in face of very strong opposition, at the in-' stance of a Labour government. Since the death of  Sir Denison  Miller, it has consistently failed to fulfil its original purpose as a people's bank. I have no objection to the manner in which officers of the bank are carrying on under recent legislation, but I disagree with the provisions of the act; and I am satisfied that if the business of the savings bank branch is conducted as at present it will not long survive." For reasons best known to itself, the board has continued the practice of paying merely a nominal rate of interest - a rate lower than is paid by any of the state savings banks - to depositors in ohe savings bank branch. 
I am under the  impression  that for a limited time the rate of interest paid by the New South Wales Savings Bank was the same as that paid by the 'Commonwealth Bank. 
At all events, it is a. fact that for a number of years the Commonwealth Bank has been paying only 3 per cent, to its 'savings bank depositors, while the New South Wales Savings Bank has been paying at least 4 per -cent. 
I speak subject to correction on that point, but I fail to see why the bank should pay its deposi.fc.ar3 a least J per cent, less -than is paid by the state -savings bank in New South Wales, and a lower rate than is paid by the savings banks of the other states. If this policy is continued, depositors will undoubtedly withdraw from the Commonwealth Bank and lodge their deposits with the state banks ; because, whatever may be said to the contrary, the security offered by the latter is practically as good as that offered by the Commonwealth. It. would appear that the purpose of the board is to destroy the savings bank business of the bank. 
It is not being  built  up at all; it is being destroyed. 
A return published in the  Commonwealth Gazette  for the quarter ending 31st December, 1924, discloses that the savings bank business of the bank is decreasing substantially. The following decreases in deposits are shown : - 

<graphic href="110332192506255_18_4.jpg"></graphic>

And yet we are told by Senators Duncan and Greene that the business of the bank is being built up. These figures show that it is being effectively destroyed.  If  the present trend of business continues, the savings bank branch of the bank's business will eventually become a negligible quantity. 
I have objected on more than one occasion. The rate of interest paid by the Commonwealth Bank to its savings bank depositors since its inception has been a little less than the rate paid by the State Savings Bank of New South Wales. The point 1 want to emphasize is that owing to the policy pursued by the Commonwealth Bank to-day as disclosed by the figures I have just quoted, the deposits in its savings bank branch are decreasing. If these withdrawals continue this branch of the bank will be completely destroyed. 
You are quite mistaken. 
The honorable senator must address the Chair. 
Addressing honorable senators directly, instead of through the Chair, is always calculated to lead to disorder. The honorable senator has been sufficiently long in the Senate to say anything he requires to say just as well by addressing the Chair rs by directly addressing another honorable senator. 
Therefore, during the last six months the deposits in the savings bank branch of the Commonwealth Bank have decreased by over £800,000. During the next quarter ending -30th June, 1925, when the interest accruing is added to the various accounts, it will ' be claimed that the deposits have increased, whereas nothing of the kind will take place. It will merely be a swelling of the deposits by the addition of the interest earned. 
On the 15 ih December of this year war loan bonds amounting to £68,000,000 will become due. It is impossible to say what steps may be taken by the Government to deal with this matter, but it is of the utmost importance that something should be done to  reduce,  or, if possible, abolish the enormous amount of interest that has annually to be transferred from Australia to Great Britain. Publicly and privately, about £50,000,000 a year, or £1,000,000 a week, is extracted from Australia in the shape of payment of interest to London. It appears to me that it is within the province of the Government, in conjunction with the Commonwealth Bank, to take steps to do away with at least a portion of the interest that is now being paid upon these loans. I find, from the return from which I have just quoted, that there are £56,000,000 worth of notes, of which' the public -holds approximately £22,000,000 and the Commonwealth Bank £24,000,000. When the east-west railway was 'being constructed the  Labour  Government of the day, in defiance of the advice of the allegedly most prominent financiers, printed a considerable number of notes, of  which  ' about £3,000,000 worth were used to pay the expenses incurred in connexion with  the  construction of that line. Interest has not to be paid upon that sum. It has never had to be paid. I should like to know why the Commonwealth -should continue to pay interest upon the £68,000,000 that will fall due in December next, if by a similar arrangement it can be avoided. 
I desire to refer very briefly to the construction of the railway from Kyogle to Brisbane, During the discussion in this chamber of the measure authorizing the construction of that line, I spoke at some length, and listened carefully to the speech of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It did not then dawn upon me that a government in this age would contemplate providing for bridges and tunnels wide enough to carry only one set of rails. I understand that the surveys have been completed, and that they include something which, so far as Australia at least is concerned, is quite new - a spiral inside a tunnel through the mountains that separate New South Wales from Queensland. I believe that the tunnels and bridges, when built, will carry only one set of rails. If the work is to be done under contract, I suggest that before tenders are accepted the Government should carefully consider the advisability of making such provision that the bridges and tunnels will be capable of taking a double set of rails. The line from Sydney to Newcastle originally had tunnels that were capable of carrying, only one set of rails. The work ha'd subsequently to be duplicated at enormous cost. There was a. similar experience with the south coast line in New South Wales. In that case, also, duplication work had to be undertaken. There is no reason why the Commonwealth should make that mistake with the tunnels and bridges on the line from Kyogle to Brisbane. Other portions of the line will quite easily cope with the traffic when it is fully operating. I believe that it is impossible to increase the width of a tunnel while the line is in operation. 
I now desire to refer to the construction of the two cruisers required for the defence of Australia. When this matter was before the Son ate previously I stated. - and I think that I voiced the opinion, of large numbers of people in this country - that, so far as defence was concerned, all the equipment possible should be made in the Commonwealth regardless of cost. It is a matter not of a 30 per cent, or 40 per cent, preference, but of ma'king iu the Commonwealth the things that ' we require. Probably rifles and other small arms could be imported into Australia cheaper than they are made at Lithgow, but throughout Australia the opinion is practically unanimous that all the small arms which we require should be made in this country, and that the question of cost is a secondary consideration. These cruisers should, so far as possible, be made, in the Commonwealth. I do not believe that they will be constructed wholly in the shipyards of the successfultenderer. They will be assembled there, but much of the necessary equipment will be made at other centres. Why could not the assembling take place in the Commonwealth- as well as in Great! Britain ?' 
One shipyard, which in the year ended September, 1913, paid £1,930 inlocal rates and £387 under schedule A of the income tax, paid out last year more than £10,000. The yard was of the same size with the same number of dry docks and building berths, but just at the conclusion of the war some soft ground was piled and made into solid ground. Imme- diately the Assessment Committee came along and increased its demand because the improvement had " added tothe national wealth." Old machinery was gradually replaced by new and better, and every time the equipment was improved the assessment went up, thus penalizing the owners for everything they did to improve the yard. This was no isolated instance. Another yard, on the Tyne, which was paying £2,700 in local rates and £500 under schedule A, was now paying more than £10,000 in local rates, and £3,000 under schedule A. In normal times that yard had produced four ships a year. Last year it produced three. On each of those ship's £4,000 of the gross cost was due to taxation. 
I should like to know how much of the estimated cost of constructing cruisers at Cockatoo Island was due to the piling on of overhead charges. I invite the attention of honorable senators to the extract I have just quoted, which gives one rea son why the German shipbuilders are able to undercut the shipbuilders in Great Britain, and incidentally I should like to know to what extent, if any, our shipyards are handicapped by taxation of a similar kind. 
I desire to take advantage of this opportunity to briefly refer to our present system of national taxation. I presume that in the near future, when tariff measures are under discussion, we shall have an opportunity to deal with this question, although our comments will to some extent be curtailed. On this occasion, however, one can speak at some length upon the question of taxation. At present, the great bulk of our taxation is derived from Customs and excise duties. We are informed by our enthusiastic protectionist friends that under that great national policy all work can be undertaken in Australia, but when they got an opportunity to construct cruisers the work was sent abroad. During the last financial year we collected in the form of Customs and excise duties the very substantial sum of £36,000,000, which of itself should be a very clear indication to honorable senators of the large volume of goods manufactured in foreign low- wage countries which is finding its way into the Commonwealth. 
-We stand for the present Defence Act, with the amendments T have suggested. It is utterly futile for honorable senators to say that the Labour party has no defence policy, as many of the regulations I have read are in effect now in operation. 
-We provide for a limitation being placed on the number of professional soldiers necessary for purposes of instruction, administration, and a . working staff. This has been done so that in times of peace we shall have a nucleus staff with a knowledge of the work, and allow ordinary citizens to go about their business. When the services of additional men are required we would have a staff capable of training the necessary numbers. 
I do not think so. We stand for the creation and maintenance of a staff fu-l-lj equipped for training others should the occasion arise. 
Perhaps that would be advisable. -.: 
I do not for a moment imagine that the present system is all that can be -desired. We favour the establishment and maintenance of a bodysuch as I have described, well equipped and fully conversant with the latest devices. 
They would be replaced by others. In view of the interjections of honorable senators,  Lt  is most desirable that the defence policy of the Labour party should be placed before the Senate. We stand for the present Defence Act with the slight amendments I have mentioned, and, in particular, for an expert committee such 'as I have attempted to describe. There are some persons, of course, who prefer to be always in military uniform, but a vast majority of Australia's manhood prefer civilian attire. Prom information placed at my disposal I understand that men who understand the business would prefer to train men of the right age who have had no previous military experience, rather than endeavour to train boys who have been handled under very lax discipline. 
Yes; I have always been a member of that party. . We tried compulsory military training as an experiment, and, in view of our experience, are now opposed to it. It is very peculiar that, if compulsory military training possesses all the good features which some honorable senators opposite believe it does, men are not trained instead of youths. Why is not every male of the military age compelled to attend drill on Saturday afternoons? Most men prefer to go to the races or football matches, and such a, thing would not be tolerated. 
Reverting to the question o:f national taxation, I am very glad to see that the Western Australian Labour Government has dealt with this question in a way in which it has not been handled in any other state. It has imposed a straightout land values tax of 2d. in the ? on the unimproved value of the land in accordance with the principle laid down by the late Henry George in his notable work entitled  Progress and Poverty.  This policy will, no doubt, have a very excellent effect in making more land available for settlement in that state. I understand that all of the revenue, which must amount to a very substantial sum, is to be used for the reduction of freights on the Western Australian railways. Undoubtedly that will be a step in the right direction. It will be an immense boon to the users of the railways. I should very much like to see the same policy adopted throughout the Commonwealth. It will be within the recollection of honorable senators that when the Grafton-South Brisbane Railway Bill was being discussed in this chamber, I endeavoured to insert a clause providing for the imposition of a betterment tax upon the owners of land adjacent to the proposed railway. Unfortunately, that amendment was beyond the scope of the bill. Owing to the laxity of the Government, through its officers in the Land Tax Department, approximately ?2,000,000 in land taxation  is outstanding. It is surprising how promptly the taxation authorities act in some cases and how promptly one set of citizens is mulct in fines while other people are allowed to escape. I noticed, in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 15th May, that  Mr. Johnson,  the assistant secretary of the Seamen's Union, was before the court in Sydney and fined' for having failed to furnish income tax returns. 
Yes, I understand that is his name. 
Whether his name is Johnson or Johannsen is beside the point. He failed to furnish income tax returns and was fined. The  Sydney 

 Morning Herald report of the case is as follows : - 
Jacob Johansen Fined. 
Jacob Johansen assistant secretary of the Seamen's Union, was proceeded against before  Mr. Camphin,  S.M., at the Central Summons Court yesterday, on information alleging that he failed to furnish Federal income tax returns for the years 1923 and 1924. He pleaded guilty, and was defended by  Mr. Small. 

 Mr. Small asked that the information be altered from Johansen to Johnson, but no change was made in the information. 
Alan Hardy Falconer, an officer of the Taxation Department, said that Johansen who was the assistant secretary of the Seamen's Union, had never furnished a return under the Federal Income Tax Act. He should have furnished one for the past five years. His income would show a slightly taxable portion. The aggregate tax for two years would be about ?6, under both acts. 
To the Bench: The Commissioner will enforce the tax payable. I do not doubt that the tax will be paid. 
On each of the two charges Johansen was fined ?3, with 8s. costs, in default 21 days' imprisonment. 
I have also a report of another case. The  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 13th May states that  Sir Sidney  Kidman was fined ls. for what was described as a technical breach of the act. 
I do not wish to read the whole of the report. The charge was - 
That the taxpayer had failed to furnish, before the 31st August, 1924, a return under the Land Tax Assessment Act 1923 for the year ended 30th June, 1924, as and when required by the Commissioner  of Land Tax. 
The report goes on to state - 
Thomas Owen Smith, officer in charge of land tax records in the department, submitted a return furnished on the 16th September, 1924, showing that the unimproved value of the freehold land of  Sir Sidney  Kidman on the 30th June, 1923, was ?13,504, irrespective of Crown leases and shares in companies. 
The report, which is of some length, indicates that a fine of ls. was imposed, with costs amounting to ?4 6s. 6d. Mark the difference.  Sir Sidney  Kidman is one of the largest land-owners in the Commonwealth. 
-It is possible that  Mr. Johannsen  overlooked the fact that he was obliged to furnish a return. I have heard of many people who were under the impression for years that they were not obliged to make out income tax returns, so it is quite likely that Johannsen was not aware of his liability. Many' people believe that members of Parliament escape the payment of income taxation. That", of course, is a very great error. It is strange that Johannsen had to pay fines amounting to about £6, whilst  Sir Sidney  Kidman was fined only ls. for a similar offence. I have mad© this comparison in order again to expose the extreme difficulty of the department in collecting taxation under the present system. 
The courts, I suppose, are really to blame, but their decisions are not always sound. Some years ago, the late  Mr. T.  J. Ryan successfully challenged a decision of the High Court before tho Privy Council. Whatever respect most people may have for the courts, there is evidently a belief in the minds of some that, when courts deal so gently with men like  Sir Sidney  Kidman and so severely with men like Johannsen, they may be, to some extent, biased. I would welcome an alteration in the system for the collection of revenue. The present policy is unsound. The people who really own the Commonwealth are only called upon to make a nominal contribution to the revenue, whereas the enterprising' people who do the work have to pay enormously in Customs, excise, and income taxation, as well as in many other directions. The time is opportune for the Government to bring down a measure calling upon the people who own Australia to contribute substantially towards the revenue. It was my intention to deliver a lengthy address upon -land values taxation*, but, as a number of other bills will come before the Senate during the ensuing few weeks, I shall take the opportunity then offered to enlarge upon this very important question and give honorable senators the benefit of my knowledge in regard to it. 
I have always been opposed to the construction of the cruisers abroad. In this matter I and thos© who think with me may be regarded as big Australians in the true sense of the word. We wish to have the vessels built in Australia.  Senator Cox,  this afternoon, stated by way of interjection, whilst  Senator Needham  was speaking, that he was talking " tripe." Those who object to the building of cruisers in Australia on the ground tha* it will be necessary, first, to establish special rolling mills, talk " tripe." Several estimates of the probable cost of those rolling mills have been submitted. One estimate was £1,000,000, another  £500,000,  and  Senator DrakeBrockman  has told us that, even if the rolling mills were established, they would only be used for about six weeks. That statement, too, in my opinion, is " tripe." I know nothing about shipbuilding, but I' have been informed by men who are engaged in that industry that these mills can be altered to roll plates of any required size. If it is the intention of the Commonwealth to establish defence forces either on land or sea, it will not matter if it costs £1,000,000 or £1,500,000 to set up a rolling mill so long as we keep abreast of the times.  Mr. Bruce,  addressing the Chamber of Commerce of New South Wales recently, said - 
Our greatest defence in Australia is the building up of our industries. 
I quite agree with that statement, but 
We find to-day that half of the industries we have built up are idle, while goods produced at less cost in other countries and under conditions of labour which do nOt compare with those in Australia are being brought her© to compete with those locally produced. 
The Labour party has a defence policy. It stands for the development of factories which, while fulfilling a useful purpose in time of peace, may be applied, should the necessity arise, to the manufacture of implements of war. The Labour party advocates aerial defence, the establishment of aerial stations all over Australia, the setting up of adequate coastal defences, the building of submarines, and so forth. Honorable senators opposite are quite wrong when they declare that if Labour came into power there would be no defence policy for Australia. Every man in the Commonwealth is prepared to shoulder a gun to defend his country. Whatever may be the policy of the Labour party in other respects there must always be some form of defence. But these 10,000-ton cruisers which are being built at enormous expense will be about as effective as pop guns would be in the defence of Australia's 12,000 miles of coast-line. 
If we are to build cruisers we should not build small vessels. 
Quite so, and under the terms of that treaty - the Labour party was not consulted in the matter - the Government has sunk the  Australia,  whose guns could fire a shot twice as far as those of the 10,000-ton cruisers will be able to do. It has got rid of a battleship and is expecting two baby vessels to take her place. Since the signing of the armistice the Commonwealth has spent £25,000,000 on defence. According to  Sir John  Monash and other experts there is nothing to show for this enormous expenditure; the defence forces of Australia are in a deplorable condition, there is not sufficient ammunition for heavy guns to last for 24 hours, and the system of compulsory training now in operation is farcical. It is not the fault of the Labour party, but these things must be taken into consideration. People cannot hold a country unless they are in a position to defend it. Like  Senator Needham  I abhor war. I believe that the generals we have in this chamber also abhor Avar. But, notwithstanding our abhorrence of war, we all claim that we must be prepared to face it. There are various ways of being prepared, and if we follow the advice of the Prime Minister and build up our industries, it will go a long way towards making Australia a self-contained country quite able to protect itself.- It is quite possible that the Commonwealth Government may embark upon a policy of building a mercantile fleet. 
Whose fault is. that? An honorable senator has asked why the Western Australian Government recently bought a vessel that wasbuilt abroad. It was forced to doso. For its north-west coastal trade it chartered a steamer belonging to the British Government, but was recently notified by the Imperial authorities that the boat must be sold. The Government was given an opportunity to purchase it. 

 Sitting suspended from (S.S0 to 8 p.m- 

Honorable senators are, doubtless, aware that in Western Australia at present we have a Labour administration. In common with all other Labour governments, it does not believe in purchasing abroad anything that can be manufactured iuAus tralia. The price that was asked for the vessel to which I have referred was prohibitive, and the time available for procuring another vessel to take its place- in the north-west trade was so short that it was not possible to have one built. Therefore, the Government was forced  to  purchase a vessel from Great Britain. Whether the Government of Great Britain was playing into the hands of the private shipping companies is a matter for conjecture. 
A great deal has been said regarding: the influx of southern Europeans into Australia in large numbers. It is true that for some years many Italians have come to Australia. As the Minister for Homeand Territories  (Senator Pearce)  hasstated, there is some underlying force that makes possible the financing of the immigration of Italians. They do not land asordinary immigrants. As their fares are- apparently, paid for them, there must be a syndicate in charge of the financial arrangements. Nine-tenths of these people are unable to speak the English language. 
They may, or they may not; I cannot say. 
They do not have to pass a language test. That should be insisted upon. Some of these Italians are encountered on the Kalgoorlie gold-fields.. They can bid one "good day" in English; but that is about all they know of the English language. When they are employed in places that are likely to prove dangerous, it is necessary for the experienced miners in whose company they are working to see to their safety. 
Very likely that to' being done now, but it has not been the case, in past years. I speak with knowledge, because I have worked on the fields. Whilst the Labour party is not opposed to. immigration, it believes that the first duty of the Commonwealth Government is to see that its own people are employed before it permits large numbers of foreigners to be brought to Australia. I do not know whether those who come here accept less than the ruling rate of' wages, but it is a significant fact that they can obtain employment whilst our own people are unable to- do so-. An honorable- senator asked, during this debate, how the Australians, could expect to get work if they would, not go out of town, but were content' to lounge, about the streets. That may be so in Melbourne, Sydney, or Adelaide, but on the gold-fields such a spectacle- is not witnessed, and yet Australians there have for some time been displaced by foreign immigrants. If the Government desires to make Australia self-contained, and populate its vast vacant spaces, its. first duty is to see that the Australian-born at least gets a chance to: work some of his native soil. - Frequently he is not given the opportunity, preference being given to immigrants in different parts of Australia. 
There is room in Australia for many more people than it is now carrying,  and- there should be work for all. The trouble is that when industries are established in any state, but particularly in Victoria, a sufficient amount of protection ia not afforded to enable them to compete against the goods that are dumped here by foreign manufacturers. I should, like to- draw attention to the case of Bryant and May's match factory in Richmond. Itis second tq none in Australia in the working conditions that it provides for its employees. It supplies its male and' female workers individually with two sets of overalls, which it launders, repairs, and keeps in order. There is a big dining-room, in which the employees are supplied by the company, free of cost, with soup, two rolls, milk, butter, sugar, and tea daily at mid-day. 
I am endeavouring to show what can be done when employers act honorably towards their employees. That has not been my experience in every case. In this factory there are two big electric ice-cream churns. In the summer afternoons the employees are taken to the dining-room in groups of 40, 50, or 60, and are provided with icecream and cool drinks during a tenminutes' spell from duty. The conditions for the employees are ideal. Their hours of labour are- 40 per cent, less than the company could insist upon. Yet it has to compete with wooden matches that are brought to Australia from foreign countries. The consequence is that during- the last three years 45 per cent, of its employees have had to be dismissed, and almost the same percentage of its machinery shut down. Wooden matches have been imported into Australia in the following quantities during the last three years : - 

<graphic href="110332192506255_28_6.jpg"></graphic>

Considering the conditions that are provided by this company for its employees the Commonwealth Government will not be doing its duty if it does not so increase the tariff as to prevent the dumping of Swedish and other foreign matches into Australia. If we refrain from importing what it is possible to make in Australia a greater number of our people will be employed. When this factory is working full-handed it employs 200 men and 400 girls. If the whole of the plant were operated it' could, employ 250 men and 500 girls. At the present time there are 150' men and 300 girls employed. 
Yes. The company supplies one-fourth of the quantity of matches now used in Australia. With an adequate tariff it would be able to duplicate its plant and- supply the whole of the requirements of Australia. 
The company says that the price will not be increased. 
With a higher tariff it could duplicate its plant without increasing the price to the consumer. The raising of the tariff would force the foreign manufacturer to establish works in. Australia and employ Australians at the same rate of wages and under the same conditions as are being observed today by Bryant and May. No objection could be taken to that. The Lincoln Mills,, which manufacture all classes of woollen goods, are working 45 per cent, less time than they did three years ago. This is due to dumping. Goods that have been manufactured in foreign countries are sold here at prices lower than the- cost of manufacture in Australia; thus proving that the wages are lower in those countries than they are here, and that the conditions under which their employees work are not so good. Consider the case of a man abroad who is in a large way of business. At the commencement of the season he puts out his goods at a high price. When he has disposed of the biggest part of his stock, he finds that the demand for his goods has ceased, and he is left with a . certain quantity on hand. What does he do ? He sends it to New Zealand, or dumps it here in Australia. His profit has already been made. But Australia has to compete with his product. 
It does. 
Some time ago,  Senator Guthrie  pointed out that serge which cost 32s. 6d. to produce was being sold here for 2s. 6d. If we are to have a self-contained nation, and are to defend ourselves and keep Australia white, we must foster and encourage our indus tries. No tariff is too high if it is necessary to enable us to produce that which  we are capable of making.. 
I hope that the honorable senator will hot attempt to repeat his speech, as I should have to refuse him permission to do so. 
The discussion on the first reading of this bill serves two purposes. First, it enables honorable senators., after the comparative quiet of recess, to direct attention to many matters of public importance; and, secondly, it gives the Opposition the opportunity to express their belated thoughts. Ordinarily, the AddressinReply is availed of; but honorable senators opposite, in a spirit of self-denial, decided that in connexion with the Address-in-Reply debate they would not utter a word on any public question. It was with the object of giving them every facility to express their views that I refrained from speaking until now. In the minds of some honorable senators opposite thought had become so pent up and explosive, that, like a burning mountain, an outlet was necessary. Two forces were at conflict within them. There was the burning desire to speak, and at. the same time the desire to exercise a little self-denial by not speaking. And they are such good talkers, too ! I welcome the discussion that has taken place to-day, because, while much of a purely destructive character has been said, much of it has been of a constructive nature. At a later stage I shall endeavour on some subjects to present a different version from that presented by preceding speakers. I am sorry that I was unable :to hear the whole of  Senator Needham's  : speech, but I propose later to allude to some of his remarks that I did hear. At present, I desire to refer to the extraordinary statement of  Senator Grant-*-   that a vital reform is necessary in the defence organization of the Common- wealth in the direction of providing that the commanding officers shall, in future,  be elected by the rank and file. That is a novel, if not a -revolutionary, proposal, which, I believe, is an «embryo plank in the platform of the latter-day Labour, party. It is an interesting proposal, no matter from what view-point one looks at it. It proposes to take away from any government which may be in power the right to appoint the leaders of its defence forces. So far as that is concerned, it does not matter to this latter-day Labour party whether the Government that is in power is or is not a Labour administration, but the signs of the times are that in the distant future - the very distant future - we shall have a Labour Government in the Commonwealth. The platform of this latter-day Labour party provides that the men who are . to take the leading part in directing whatever defence force we possess shall be elected by the rank and file of those who shall come forward. whether they like it or not, to defend their country. Such a proposal would be a rank act of treason against amy Labour Government that might be in power, because it would be taking from that government, which alone is responsible to the people, the power to make appointments which should be the subject of the most careful scrutiny and the soundest judgment. In the command of our defence forces is, to a great extent, vested the custody and care of the people of this land. This principle of the election of the officers of an army by the warrior proletariat who may choose to fight is a novel one. 
This proposal, if adopted, would lead us into curious paths, and being such a radical departure from the existing methods should be viewed very carefully. Parliament is a useful institution if for no other purpose than that it provides the opportunity for important matters to be discussed from «very angle. Within these walls various subjects are discussed both from the points of view of ardent supporters and strong opponents. A Parliament which represents the whole community is a useful and welcome institution, in that it enables the light of day to shine upon the most radical reforms. Closely associated with this policy of election - a kind of twin invention - are the reforms known as the initiative referendum and recall. A halfhearted introduction of the elective system will never satisfy, and its complement - the initiative and recall - must follow. Some honorable senators on the other side who are members of the great party which would bring  about this reform have probably not considered certain possibilities. What are these possibilities ? The advocates of this reform would never think of taking half measures, and, therefore, must link up with the principle of election that of the initiative referendum and recall, with which it is rightly associated. To allow the rank and file merely to elect its officers would be to apply part only of the great principle - and the latter-day Labour party never does things by halves! As the whole principle would have to be applied, let us see how it would work out at a critical time for the nation. Let us suppose that the country was attacked, and that whatever power we possessed for defence was marshalled to defend our shores. While it is admitted that all ranks have their duties to perform, the chief responsibility must rest with the officers controlling the army - the commander-in-chief and his subordinates. In their custody practically rests the fate of the country. Under the principle we are discussing these men would be elected by the rankers themselves. Let us further suppose that, after having received the vote of his fellow warriors, mostly on the ground of his proclivities, the commander-in-chief discharged his duties in a manner that did not meet with the approbation of those serving under him. That would lead to the next stage of this novel principle, namely, the- recall. What would happen then? The army would hoist the flag of truce, and say to the .enemy, " Halt ! Cease fire ! We are going to elect a new general, as the man we have got is going slow on the job." Because of its -chivalrous nature the enemy would most  certainly  accede to such a request, and ' cease firing. That would be only natural. No enemy would be so despicable as to continue fighting while these doughty warriors elected a new commander-in-chief. It would be as natural for an enemy to do that as for a man to walk down the street on his head instead of on his feet. These natural things are so common that they are met with every day! While the army proceeded to elect a new commander-in-chief the safety of the country would be assured, because no enemy would take a mean advantage of an army about to perform so important a duty. The new commander-in-chief elected under this novel principle might prove no more satisfactory to his fellow warriors than his predecessor. A referendum, would "again bc necessary to ascertain the best man for the position of commanderinchief. Immediately the enemy would be communicated with, and asked to again cease firing, as the army was about to conduct a referendum.. And again the enemy would do so, because no enemy would take a mean advantage of an army performing such an important socialistic duty ! The ballot-box, therefore, has unlimited potentialities for the safeguarding of this country. These are possibilities which I have the extraordinary temerity to bring before  Senator Grant.  He may not have thought of them, but to me they are as clear as the noon-day sun. 

 Senator Needham, in a very comprehensive discourse, spoke of the unwisdom of the Government in ordering cruisers from the Old Country. We had heard of this subject before, but the arguments were not presented in the same way. Here again the usefulness of Parliament is exhibited, in that the most exalted among us, as well as the lowliest, may express our views. I am here in my lowly role to offer some comment upon  Senator Needham's  speech, and other speeches of a like nature which have been delivered in another place. What is the position? Does it not amount to this : That in the first place, when the Government brought down a proposal for keeping the Australian-owned and controlled navy up to its strength, it received the general support of the Australian people. That phrase, " an Australian-owned and controlled navy," 
I believe, still lingers in the minds of :he members of the latter-day Labour party. It is in their platform, although they have excised from their programme quite a number of the original clauses relating to our defence. The Australianowned and controlled navy is with us still, and I believe it is one of the boasts of the Labour party that it was responsible for the creation of that navy. What is meant by an Australian-owned and controlled navy ? Does it not mean that it is to be- an arm of our defence which must be maintained as an effective fighting unit? It is true that warships were ordered to be built in the Commonwealth by a Labour Government, and it is also true that some of them took a very long time to construct - some of them as long as Noah took to build the ark. The two cruisers now under construction are for the purpose of protecting the external trade of the Commonwealth, and our action in building them is also in accord with the decisions of the latest world effort to bring armaments at least within reasonable bounds. I refer to the Washington Conference. The members of the. latter-day Labour party say that we do not need any cruisers at all. I can quite understand such an expression of opinion coming from those who kneel at the altar of altruism, and who blind their eyes to the facts, even if such action maylead to their own extinction. If they weretrue worshippers at that altar, I would not mind. But have they been ? When a. certain motion was submitted in another place it waa decided by the members of the party opposite that on this greatquestion they would stand as firm as the rock of ages. In keeping with the principles of the Third Internationale at Moscow or some other centre, they decided' that no warships should be built. They were resolved to stand firm and blaze thetrail on this important issue. And theThird Internationale, no doubt, said,. "Well done!" But when there wasa further development they decided that if cruisers were to be built, the work should be undertaken in Australia. A member of another place tabled a motion to test the feelings of honorable members on the subject. The motion was defeated. Then came the opportunity for these modern Ironsides. What did they do? They had stated on the previous day that, in keeping with the policy of the Third Internationale, they were opposed to warship construction, but they then became a mere semblance of their original heroic selves, and said that if -warships were to be built they should be constructed in Australia. The ' ' evil " act of building ships for our protection has turned out to be quite harmless, so long as they are built here. Black is white, and wrong is right ! The members of the Labour party altered their view-point, and favoured the construction of warships in the Commonwealth.  Senator Grant,,  of. all men, has made some most astounding statements on the question of Australia's defence. I used to pride myself on the privilege of following him in his support of Cobdenite  principles, but even he, who has followed so faithfully in the steps of Cobden, John Bright, Henry George, and others of their exalted political cult, and has said on many occasions that those who proposed to manufacture anything in this country, and wanted a duty to help them, would not get a vote from him, has changed his course. When it comes to building ships, what becomes of this modern prophet ? He demands that- they shall be built here, whatever the cost. What can I do? My prophet has gone, and his feet are of clay. What will the Third Internationale say? I can imagine a telephone conversation between a representative of the latter-day Labour party and a person of corresponding dignity in the Third Internationale. The latter would probably say: ""What are you doing down there?" The representative df the latter-day Labour party would say : " We are building warships." The representative of the Third Internationale would then probably say : " Oh ! you are, are you?" and the reply would be: " Yes, we are in favour of warships so long as they are built in Australia." The answer would be: "Confound you; what do you mean, you hypocrites? Is it because yon want to win popular favour that yon -violate and dishonour your word and principle of yesterday? Do you call yourselves men? You are not fit company for members of the Third Internationale. .Ring off." 
We Iia ve arrived at a peculiar staple of party discipline and party manoeuvring. Gone are the days when mcn adhered to their word, and when principles were regarded as sacred. We are living in a new agc, when -a man's word is looked upon as of little value, and when, if our alleged principles -stand, in out way, Ave can bore a tunnel through them. Regard for principle no longer stands in theway of the members of the Labour party. They ought to say, "We have none;" Their vision is not so blurred that they cannot see the position in which they stand. The time is coming -when -out efforts, however feeble, will be used against those gentlemen who are behaving in such a peculiar manner at this juncture. Since it has some association with this question of constructing cruisers in Australia, I should like to draw honorable senators' attention to the fact that when the construction of a vessel on a smaller scale was offered to the shipbuilders in this country - when a Labour Government, to which  Senator Graham  has referred, required a ship to be built which we know was within the capacity of the shipbuilders of this country - 'not a single tender was received. The following appeared in the  Argus  of the 8th April, 3925:- 
Perth, Tuesday, 17th April, 1925. - Tlie State Ministry intends to call tenders for a Deiselengined steamer to replace the  Bambra  at a cost of about £1.60,000 for tlie North-west Coast service. The Colonial Secretary  (Mr. Drew)  stated to-day that the Federal Ministry 'had decided to admit the vessel 'free df 25 per cent. duty.. No tender was received in Australia for the vessel to replace the  Eucla  on the South-east Coast. It will be built &gt;« England, and will also be admitted free df duty. 
Apparently, it is quite right for a Labour Government to let a contract in England for the construction of a vessel which could be built here, but if. a Nationalist'. Government does the same thing the most unusual language is used by Labour members in condemning its action. 
Yes, and, in addition, the Tasmanian Labour Government sold vessels purchased by a previous Nationalist Government. But when, this Nationalist Government hints at selling the Commonwealth Fleet, on which there is an annual loss of £500,000, the dictionary is ransacked for epithets to hurl at them. A Labour Government can steal a whole mob of horses, but any other kind of Government must, not look over the fence. Pair play is bonny play. We must "play the game." If we played such a game iu the football arena as honorable members of the Labour party are playing in this connexion in the political field, we would be kicked off the field, and rightly so, too. The sins of the members of one party, which are written in scarlet on their foreheads, are allowed to pass unnoticed, whereas the members of the other party, whose scarlet marking is comparatively insignificant, receive wholesale condemnation. How long we are to continue in this way I do not know, but I.. am reminded of a saying that I first heard in Queensland - a man cannot play all the time with a double-headed penny. 
Of course, there are such things as majorities, and majorities are very often right. There are occasions, however, when they are wrong. That certain majorities have been obtained recently counts for nothing. Majorities can be secured by various and devious means. I wish to draw a clear distinction between the members of the latter-day Labour party and the old Labour party, in which sense prevailed and some semblance of consistency, honour, and honesty was observed. In the early days of the Labour party its members gave their word and stuck to it. Apparently, we have departed from the old morale of the Labour party. In those days its members made sacrifices in order to establish the movement on a firm footing. The " cuckoos " in the movement to-day are enjoying to the full the benefits obtained by the men who made sacrifices because they loved the cause for which they worked. Are sacrifices being made to-day? Not at all. In the years gone by men in the party walked hither and thither, over very many rocky paths, in an endeavour to promote and advance the cause they loved, but they do not do it now. You may count your majorities by five's or tens of thousands, but I tell you that you cannot advance except by a strict adherence to those principles which are the cardinal points, if not the very milestones, in the evolution of human society. If you depart from them you only court a foredoomed failure. It has been well said by Ralph Waldo Emerson (hat every reform was once the opinion of one man. The truth of this has been fully demonstrated in the history of every well-ordered society, and when I am told about the opinion of majorities, it does not count very much with me, because while the opinions of majorities are mostly right, and therefore to be respected, they are often also wrong. I do not say that my remarks concerning the morality of the Labour party apply to the whole of the party. Far from it. There are in it men whom I respect very much, although some of them do not talk to me - or rather I do not want to talk to them - because I dare to-day to express opinions which I have always held. They put their noses in the air, some of these men when I pass them in the street, but conscious of tlie justice of my attitude I put my own nose just a little higher and pass them by. But let me discuss the morality of this party. It is disclosed by the opinion of one very important member of it. He controlled a newspaper, and in the course of one article dealing with the conduct of it he stated - 
There will be only ink spilling and splash.  . . . Truth will find a place, but not to the exclusion of more interesting matter. . . 
No virtue will be seen in the enemy nor vice among friends. 
I did not think it possible to come to such a pass as that. Neither do I think now that the glorious cause of Labour, to which all well-affected citizens are still wedded, will endorse that statement. 
Who is the editor? 
We have heard something about a breach of faith bv the Nationalist Government in connexion with the cruiser contract. I have already dealt at some length with the breach of faith by members of the present-day Labour party, in regard to things that mattered in the past, and I am now tempted to ask, What have they done with the defence policy of the old Labour party ? I well remember being present at the 1907 Labour conference in Brisbane, when the defence policy of the party, since crystallized in the form of. the Defence Act, was laid down. What was the import of those deliberations. Clearly it was that if this country was worth protecting, it should be protected in some whole-hearted fashion, and not by a haphazard  voluntary   go-as-you-please, doasyoulike, system. Latter-day leaders of the Labour party have reverse^ that decision. They are doing their best to destroy the work of men who did something for the Labour movement - men who made sacrifices for principles in which they believed: men who were "sacked " over and over again because they stood by the  policy oof  the old Labour party. Leaders of the latter-day Labour party, it, appears, do nothing except talk. They have broken faith with the people of Australia in a matter of the most vital importance, namely, the defence of this country. If a thing is of any value, surely it is worth protecting. If a man by thrift becomes possessed of' a sunt of money to be used for a rainy day, is it likely that he will spill it about on the verandah of his dwelling ? Of course not. He takes steps to protect it, because it is of value to him, and because, if he fails to safeguard it, thieves may steal his hardwon savings  over many years. Under the policy enunciated by the latter-day leaders of the Labour party, how do we stand in regard to the freedom which wo enjoy ? We have the last expression in the way of human freedom in the world, and yet we are told that this glorious heritage, handed down bo us by our grandsires, is to be entrusted to the tender mercies of thos© who take their orders from Moscow or sit on some other International Council. Australians will never submit to such a damnable and suicidal policy as that. They will take no chances. Just as Soviet leaders in Moscow are specially jealous of and prepared to defend that awful social system which has been fastened upon the benighted people of that unfortunate blood-bespattered -land, so are all true Australians prepared to (defend- freedom in this country. All this trouble is being wrought at the instigation of a miserable remnant who have come to this country from other lands; by men who have done nothing themselves for freedom, but who are now trying to destroy the glorious heritage which our forefathers fought for and won. 
I spoke just now of an infraction by the. Labour party of its solemn trust. We all know what has happened with regard to arbitration - another Labour-made law. There were nien in the party - I was one of them - who went around the country making themselves unpopular at every turn, and who after a long uphill, strenuous effort at length succeeded in ripening public opinion to the point of accepting arbitration as the sole means of protecting the men and women of the country as they had never been protected before. What is the presentday Labour party doing now ? At the behest and direction, and by the express instruction of a contemptible element in this country, mostly a foreign, brainless, and ruthlessly inclined section, the Arbitration Act, which has been the bulwark of the workers in Australia, is to be trampled to the dust. And not a word is raised in protest,  because  it would have a  repercussionary  effect on the reactionaries, and in the end popular favour would be lost. That is the sum total of it. As Aristotle said, " The demagogues are the bane of democracy," which brings me again to the point of my argument. The trouble in all democracies is that there is always one section that will advocate its own cause at the expense of the whole, and thus bring about the downfall of the whole. History shouts contradiction to the assertion that democracy is a stable form of society. Democracy that does not trust itself is always unsafe, and unless we throw out of our body politic that poisonous element we have with us to-day we shall go the way of all democracies. Look at Greece to-day - Greece, that glorious land, which, as Byron said, was holding the light aloft for the enlightenment of mankind. How was it governed during the recent w.ar? By an imported sovereign aided and abetted by an imported consort. That country, which gave birth to Pericles and Demosthenes, was ruled by two such samples, who raised the sceptre of tyranny everywhere. The Aegean Isles, whose constitution was a pattern for that of the United States of America, were the prancing ground of a foreign prince. History has the knack of repeating itself. Lest it should do so in our case, let us make sure that those who are in our midst to-day are put in their proper place without much delay. 
Another infraction of the spirit that obtained in the Labour party in days gone by is the feeling that has been engendered among two sections in our society - the employers and the employed. Did not those of the early days of the Labour movement always acknowledge that there were employers and employers - that there were good men in the employing classes just as there were among the employed? Did we not claim that by the passing of an Arbitration Act, that legislation which is now being trampled underfoot, a good and generous well-affected employer would be placed on as good a footing as the other fellow, and for the first time would be given a chance with an unfair competitor? That was one of the most powerful arguments used by  us  in the old Labour time. But now the good and the bad are herded together, and all employers are branded as outcast! of society. I am heartily sick and tired of all this nonsense, because the very men who indulge in it are availing themselves of all the arts and practices and devices that are usually adopted to get a share of what is condemned as capital. I exempt some of them from this charge, but I do blame those who at every " red " conference utter condemnations against capital, claiming that . there is nothing so detestable in the whole civilized scheme as capital, yet never lose an opportunity to get a little of its tainted proceeds. To such men I am prepared to say, "Well done. You have to get a living; but I should like a little more consistency on your part." I have never met that type of latter-day Labour prophet who would feel insulted at being told that by putting a few pounds into certain capitalistic ventures he would have a certain percentage returned to him. As a " matter of fact, he is the very class of man from whom I have often obtained advice that has proved profitable to me. If I wanted good advice as to how I could get more capital to help my bankrupt farm to get rid of the dead weight of debt upon it, I would get it from the very men who turn up at these " red " conferences, declaim against capitalism, and then make a bee-line to the nearest broker's office to draw their dividends. Their outspoken, fervent cursing of capital in public is only equalled by their whole-souled blessing of it in private when drawing a dividend or the rent of a suburban villa. Yes, it is about time we talked over these things among ourselves. I want to be told my faults; I have so many that I do not know where they begin or end, but I want to be told of them, just as I propose to tell others of their faults, whilst having all good will for them. I hope they will tell me of mine, always provided they stick to the truth and do not follow the standard which has been set up for them by some of their leaders. If the doctrine now preached, that of creating bad feeling between employer and employee, is to be strictly and rigidly adhered to, no worker can rise from the ranks. By all the rules of the game the bootmaker who starts a boot-repairing business, and finds that his trade is sufficient to enable him to employ an assistant, at once becomes a capitalist. If a miner goes into the interior, and after years of plodding and hard struggling, and often starvation, eventually makes a find, unlocks some of nature's treasure, and secures a rich and well-deserved reward, he at once becomes a detested capitalist as soon as he enlists the assistance of others to form a company. According to the rules of the game he becomes a social outcast, and one to be shunned.  Senator Graham  does not dissent from that statement.' When I put it to him he has the wisdom and manliness to assent to it. The farm labourer becomes a capitalist when he reaches that degree of eminence at which he can farm his own land. Where can we draw the line? Capital is but congealed labour. Even the schoolboy who saves a few pennies, and puts them in. a savings box, is a capitalist. The man who saves his surplus earnings and puts them by for a rainy day is also a, capitalist. The man who subscribes to a co-operative establishment is also a capitalist. I recognize that there are abuses of capital, but they can always be held in check by this Parliament. If ever those abuses become rampant in this .country it is within the powers of the people to control them. This Parliament can always bring capital to its bearings, make it amenable to reason, and curb it in its predatory designs.  If we only had- in this country a Labour party true to its own principles - a Labour party that would not hearken to the voice of ill advisers - there would be only one party in Australia for evermore. There is no leisured class in the Commonwealth. Ninety per cent, of the people are workers by hand or brain. I know it serves the purpose of some persons on the hustings to say that certain honorable senators are here to serve the interests of a mere 10 per cent, of the people, but the truth is that those honorable senators are here by the exercise of the free choice of the majority of the toilers by hand or brain. Therefore, they must be accorded every right to choose what is best in their own interests. 
There are certain features of the Government policy to which I wish to draw attention, particularly the necessity for a better roads system in Australia. According to the Commonwealth  Tear-Book  this country is largely dependent on primary production. Out of £140,000,000 worth of goods exported from Australia last' year, only 3 per cent, represented manufactured products. The other 97 per cent, consists of the direct produce of mother earth. Our imports are mounting up, showing that we have a greater consuming capacity, but we are not showing a corresponding increase in the export of those commodities upon which we depend to pay our debts and the interest upon the money that we borrow. The Commonwealth Government is. the dominant tax-collecting authority in Australia. I should like it to take steps that would enable it to increase the road grant to £1,000,000 a year and make it permanent, in order to make easier the lot of those who go into the interior, turning their backs upon the sea coast, so that they may develop the undeveloped portions of the continent, and increase the production of those things which are so valuable to us. Primary production is our breath of life, the main pillar of our national strength. 
If I were the adviser of the Government I should suggest that it make available £100,000 annually for the purpose of testing old mining fields, whether they be fields of gold, silver, copper, or any other metal, and for prospecting generally. That would give hope and encouragement to prospectors to go into the uncharted places of Australia, and reveal to us the hidden wealth that they contain. It should be provided that the states should make available an equal amount. By such means attention would be directed to our mining resources, and those who are engaged in metalliferous mining would be given an opportunity to succeedto a greater extent than they have done in the past. 
I hope that my suggestions will receive consideration when the Budget is being framed. In the meantime I shall avail myself of every opportunity to further their adoption. 
When  Senator Guthrie  addressed the Senate, on the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply, he referred to the good work that had been done by . the Government. We expected that eulogy from him, because we recognize that the Government isan advocate of the " big-business interests." He made certain references to Russia, and to its Bolshevik Government, with which I disagree. One of the quotations that he made was - 
Near by stood a church with thewindows broken, the crucifix torn off, and the tower burned, a pitifully typical emblem of the Russia of to-day. The Bolsheviks are robbing the peasants, and killing every one who falls into  their hands. 
An intelligent man like  Senator Guthrie  should know that there is something radically wrong with, such a statement.. No government could continue along those lines; it would soon be deprived of the right to govern. 
I agree that the people of Russia are probably the most uneducated in the world, and that it is hard, therefore, to bring about reforms there. I recognize that every reform springs from knowledge. We cannot, therefore, expect, the people of Russia to progress until they are educated, and gain in knowledge. I have here a quotation that is the opposite of that which was read by  Senator Guthrie.  It is taken from the report of the British trade union delegation that was sent to Russia, and reads - "In SovietRussia every one must work to live." In this terse phrase the report of the British Trade Union Delegation which -recently visitedRussia gives the keynote of the Soviet social system. It does not mean thereby that present-dayRussia offers a- perfect example of communism in practice. The system, it observes,, is in many cases " still in its experimental stages." It points out, however, that " no conclusions as to its stability or value can be obtained from those who steadfastly refuse to accept what it offers." 
While it wouldbe misleading to state that the system, has permeated the whole country, " it is undoubtedly being supported by the whole of the industrial workers, by many of the peasants, and by those of the former middle class who have joined the movement either from conviction or through force of circumstances." 
The peasants are, of course, less accessible to education in the principles of the new system than are the town workers, and the methods of propaganda adopted during the fierce period of war communism have now been modified. " It is now generally recognized in communist circles," says the report, " that the peasantry can best be educated by giving them a larger representation in the Government and District Councils,and by teaching them to govern themselves locally. The communist attitude to the peasant is a curious combination of contempt and consideration. " Sovictism as practised at present appears to be a compromise between communism and state socialism, with strong tendencies towards the latter. It is the result of practical experiment among largecommunities, and the success of the movement is undoubtedly due to the courage of its leaders in acknowledging mistakes when by practical demonstration their theories have proved to be impracticable. " The fundamental principle of the system is the formation of a state and society which shall give tlie greatest possible benefits to the majority of the workers (by which is meant both hand workers and brain workers ) , and equal opportunities to all men and women." 
The report .puts briefly the main features of the system. Even more .briefly they are: Creation of the power of personal wealth, by destruction of the power of private wealth. To this end all real property, industry, and capital are owned by the state. The worker receives his pay, and, in addition, tho privileges of a citizen of the Soviet state. Under the latter head come recreation, medical service, education, housing, &amp;c. 
H is still necessary for the worker to pay a nominal fee for his privileges, but as the state becomes wealthier all these will be made free. 
The peasant's land and house represent, in his  case,  tlie worker's wage. In addition, he has the .benefits of education, medical service, recreation, 4 c. 
There remains the non-worker - he who, being .between tlie ages of 17 and 55, will not engage in work under the Soviet state. He lias no political or social status. He must pay high prices for everything. His lot is hard. " But' in Soviet Russia every one must work to live." 
I do not think that it is half as biased as the quotations which were read by the honorable senator. 
The honorable senator quoted from many authorities. As I have previously stated, no government could continue along the lines described by him, because very soon no inhabitants would be left in the country. 
These delegates do not say so. 
I cannot see any greater reason for their lying than for those whom the honorable senator quoted. They were sent to Russia by the British trade unions to see what was happening in that country. They would not gain anything by telling lies. 
The honorable senator should recognize, that, the majority of the deaths in Russia were due to starva tion. Was not money raised in Australia for the relief of the starving Russian people ? 
The honorable senator should recognize that starvation and destitution were caused in Russia by the failure of the crops. During the war crops were not sown. It will be necessary for Russia to import wheat until she places herself in the position that she occupied prior to the war. 
Both  Senator Guthrie  and  Senator Lynch  made references to extremists - men who call themselves communists and by other nones  Senator Lynch  contended that they weve part and parcel of the Labour movement. That is wrong. I recognize that there are extremists in every movement. They are to be found even amongst honorable senators opposite. There is also to be found in every movement a traitor, a Judas. There is the extreme conservative on the one hand and the extreme communist on the other. Both are a menace to progress. The extreme conservative says that the Labour movement is bolshevistic, socialistic, communistic, and everything that is bad. Those who make statements of that character- know as well as I do that no party can act in advance of the knowledge of the people, without soon losing caste and becoming a wreck of its former self. Conservative extremists should recognize that. The extremists of whom  Senator Lynch  complains say more bitter things concerning our party than do the most conservative of our opponents. 
In South Australia, at least, the communists have told the people not to vote at all, as political power is of no value. 
He opposed- the Labour party in New South Wales. 
No; the honorable senator is in error. 
I hold no brief for Donald Grant or any extremist. The people whom  Senator Lynch  says are working in harmony with this party are fighting us most bitterly. They tell the people that our methods are obsolete, and that we shall never reach our goal by constitutional methods. We endeavour to win our way by constitutional means, because anything won otherwise, while it may mean a step forward to-day, means a dozen steps back to-morrow. Things won by unconstitutional methods cannot remain, because the will of the people is not behind them. Those people to whom  Senator Lynch  referred as working in harmony with this party are bitterly opposed to us. 
It does not. These people are opposed to arbitration, whereas arbitration is still a plank of the Labour party's platform; and while it remains so we must support it. 
They have nothing to do with the Labour movement. They have repudiated arbitration, whereas we stand for it. 
We shall repudiate him when the time comes. 
It has been said that the Labour party is opposed to immigration. We are not opposed to immigration, provided that it is carried out on right lines. There are, it is said, 60,000 unemployed in Australia to-day, 25.000 of whom are in New South Wales and 1.6,000 in Victoria. If there is such a vast army of unemployed in our midst, we contend that it- is not right to bring in foreigners to swell their ranks or take the place of Australians. 
That body is independent of the Labour party. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. 
Givens). - Order! There are too many interjections. 
While the Labour party is not opposed to immigration, it is opposed to the indiscriminate importation of southern Europeans. 
Recently the Premier of South Australia  (Mr. Gunn)  stated, if I remember rightly, that 7,000 southern Europeans had entered South Australia within three months. I am speaking only from memory, however, and am not sure of these figures. 
I have riot the figures with me, but probably  Mr. Gunn  said 700. I know that he said that many of them were on the verge of starvation. The fact that they were unemployed showed either that work was not provided for them on arrival, or that they did not remain in employment long. We are sorry for the people who have been deluded into coming here under such conditions.  Mr. Bruce  opened the way for more of these migrants to enter Australia. He said that the Commonwealth was not in favour with other nations because of its White Australia policy, and that if we stood out against the entry of southern Europeans our position in that respect would become worse. Why is the Government of Australia afraid of offending the Italian or the Maltese Government? Years ago Australia adopted the policy of a White Australia, and ever since has stood by that policy. In a recent speech,  Senator Guthrie  said, when speaking of the southern Europeans who were entering Australia, that we must act diplomatically in this matter, and not offend other nations. He .referred to the Italians as our allies during the war. Has not Japan also been for many years an ally of Great Britain? Yet, in face of that, we have said to Japan that our policy is for a White Australia, and that we will stand by it whatever happens. We recognize that Australia needs a greater population, but if we are to have immigrants from other countries, let them be British immigrants, or, f aiding them, people from Scandanavia, as they are a better class generally than those from' southern Europe. 
That is not correct. We only ask that they should not come in to swell the ranks of the unemployed.  Mr. Theodore  said that the Labour party was not opposed to immigration if work was available for the migrants when they arrived. He stated, further, that Queensland could settle 2,000 fanners on the land each year for twenty years, and that there was no objection to Britishers. 
Western Australia has done a great deal towards settling immigrants on the land, and the present government in that state is prepared to continue the policy of its predecessors. So far as South Australia is concerned, I do not think that any great number of immigrants can be placed on the land unless some of the big estates are subdivided for closer settlement. Recently, when speaking of immigration,  Mr. Lloyd  George quoted statistics to show that, in 1844, England was able to produce food for 21,000,000 people, but that, notwithstanding the advance which science had made since then, she was unable to produce food for more than 15,000,000 to-day. That is due to cultivable land not being cultivated. Thousands of acres which, prior to the war, were under cultivation, are now producing nothing. As a consequence, England's wheat production, instead of increasing, has decreased. It would appear that England herself needs to practise what she is endeavouring to teach the dominions, namely, that there should be greater cultivation and that land should be opened up for the people.  Mr. Sidney  Webb was apparently correct when speaking in the House of Commons, he said that the Dominions required the services of men with a knowledge of agriculture, and that there was practically no unemployed experienced agriculturists in Great Britain. If that is so, there are no persons in England out of employment who could migrate to Australia and settle on the land with satisfactory results.  Colonel McDonald,  also speaking in the House of Commons, said that he believed it would be cheaper in the end for Great Britain to shoulder the whole of the financial responsibility of. immigration than to pay unemployment doles. In making that statement he disclosed the actual position, and showed that the authorities in Great Britain are merely anxious to move their unemployed to the Dominions and thus avoid the heavy expense which they are incurring in paying doles.  Mr. Webb  stated that it would cost £1,000 per family to place settlers on the land overseas, and suggested that it would be better to spend the money for the same purpose in England, and thus dispense with a huge unemployed army and retain the people on English soil. The advocates of an extensive immigration policy say that a larger population is necessary in order to obtain national security. No one disputes the fact that additional population is required if that objective is to be achieved, but the same argument would apply in the case of Great Britain, only with more force, because England is more likely than Australia to be near the seat of any future conflict. I believe it was  Senator Thompson  who stated last session that the increase of population' in Australia led to a reduction in unemployment. 
In New Zealand, prior to the Seddon regime, soup  kitchens  were established in all parts of the country at which large numbers of unemployed were fed, but after the Seddon Government was returned to power poverty gradually disappeared, the people became prosperous, and the deposits in the savings bank increased by hundreds of thousands of pounds. 
That may be so. When  Mr. Seddon  passed away a Government led by  Mr. Massey  came into power. 
I am referring to the Massey Government. During the war period a man named Urquhart, whin speaking in the street, took as his subject, " On earth peace, goodwill towards men." The Massey Government instructed those in authority to prosecute this man, and he was sentenced to imprisonment for twelve months, without the option of a fine, for. saying something that was regarded as prejudicial to recruiting. During the war, New Zealand was not called God's own country, but a hell on earth. If as we have been told by an honorable senator opposite the conditions of the worker are better where the population is large, one would imagine that in England, where the population is much in excess of that of Australia, the workmen would be. better treated, housed, and fed, than they are here; but such is not the case. 
If that is so, the conditions of the people there, according to this theory, should be infinitely better than they are in England. One writer has stated that statistics show that there is always a standing army of 12,000,000 unemployed or unemployable people in the United States of America. 
I am speaking not of the wages, but of the conditions in the countries which have a large population. If there is anything at all in the argument that conditions are better in countries where the population is large, one would expect to find in countries such as India and China, where the population is numbered by hundreds of millions, unparalleled prosperity; but in India the conditions of the natives, particularly, are perhaps worse than any other part of the world. 

 Senator Lynch said that the Labour party had scrapped its defence policy. Our policy is to build up our defences on the basis of economic preparedness, to build up an air force, to establish aerial stations all over Australia, and to construct submarines to operate in conjunction with an air force. The policy of the Labour party is supported by many eminent naval authorities. I quote the following: - ' 
Admiral Kerr, of the British Navy, spoke of-  . . the Australian line of defence obviously comprised of aeroplanes, submarines, and torpedo boats, against which no hostile fleet dare approach within 200 miles. 
Bear-Admiral Hall said - 
We had a grand fleet with a preponderance of nearly two to one over Germany alone. We had the assistance of the American, French, Italian, and Japanese navies, and yet our main naval purpose - the protection of our trade - could not be carried out. 
Rear-Admiral Fullam, of the Navy of the United States of America - 
Submarines, air forces, mines, and torpedoes are sufficient to defend a coast. Lord Sydenham - 
Submarines, mine-fields, and the air have conferred new powers of home defence. 
Admiral von Scheer, of the German navy - 
The airplane and submarine furnish greater advantages to the defender than to the attacker. They make attack so difficult that the surface war vessel must now be denied official offensive power. 
Lord Wester Wemyss, First Lord of the British Admiralty - 
Had any enemy submarines been present at Gallipoli in April, 1915, the landing of the troops in the Peninsula would have been impossible. 

 Mr. Pembroke Billing, a former squadron commander ; 
A battleship is as much use to Australia as a sick headache. I cannot emphasize too strongly that if Australia was prepared to devote the money she intends spending on cruisers to the development of a powerful naval air force, nobody in this country need ever fear an invasion. 
Commodore Hyde, Acting First Naval Member of the Naval Board - 
We have no stock of munitions, no means of manufacturing munitions, no oil or petrol for submarines or aircraft. 
Lieutenant-Commander Rawson states that - 
It needs little technical knowledge to see that Australia must concentrate on submarines, minelayers, fast torpedo boats, and aircraft. Sixteen submarines can be built for the price of one' battleship. No expensive dry docks- are required. Flotilla warfare is a form of defence particularly suitable to our needs and our resources. 
Australia cannot be retained as a white man's country merely by moral effort, and something more than mere sentiment is required. It is incorrect to say that the Labour movement is opposed to the construction of cruisers or above-water craft. The Minister for Defence stated that an enormous expenditure would be required for the adequate defence of Australia. The sum mentioned by the Minister was quite beyond the resources of Australia, but the policy of the Labour party is to ensure adequate defence by submarines and aircraft. That is the policy we stand by. There is considerable unemployment in Australia owing to the heavy importation of goods which should be manufactured in this country.  Senator Graham  who touched upon this subject is apparently in favour of a prohibitive tariff. That would not furnish the remedy. There must be reciprocity in trade relationships. We must export our surplus primary products, and, therefore, we must import goods.  Senator Grant,  in his references to finance, has informed the Senate on more than one occasion that whenever we borrow money in England all we get is a wireless message to :hat effect. That is not so. If we borrow £20,000,000 abroad, we must import £20,000,000 worth of goods. There is no other way. This means, of course, that the Australian manufacturing industry must suffer to that extent, and unemployment in Australia results. It is a truism that, the more we borrow abroad the more we must import. 
Absolutely. If the Customs Department levies a duty of 10s. upon an imported article, the manufacturer of a similar article in Australia will naturally sell to the Australian consumer at a price up to the very limit allowed by the Customs duty instead of being satisfied with a reasonable profit. All this works against the development of the Australian secondary industries. And then there are certain Australians who are iahamed of Australian productions. These, too, retard development. The other day I went into a shop in Hindleystreet, Adelaide, and asked for some Australianmade underwear. The attendant at first informed me that they did not stock it, but he said they had something a trifle better. When I expressed determination not to take the imported product that was a trifle better, but wanted the Australian article, he pulled down bundles of underwear stamped "Made in Australia." I purchased what I required, and then went to Lever's hat stores in Rundle-street. Lever manufactures his own huts. I asked for a hat made in Australia, and was told that I could 

 Yet something better, namely, a hat made in South Australia. I bought a hat, but could find no indication anywhere that it was an Australian-made article. I asked why it was not stamped "Made in Australia," and the attendant, while assuring me that he was positive it was one of Lever's hats, said he did not know why it was not stamped as such. The prejudice against the Australian-made article is seriously affecting our manufacturing industries, and is responsible for much of the unemployment in this country. Manufacturers should be compelled by law to stamp their goods "Made in Australia." According to the latest statistics our secondary industries employ 412,410 people, who receive in wages about £78,000,000 a year. If Australians insisted upon buying the Australianmade article instead of decrying it, we should have a much greater number employed in Australian secondary industries, and the development of this country would proceed rapidly. The  wool  industry has fallen upon evil times lately, largely because of this prejudice against Australian-made goods. There was a striking instance of this in NewSouth Wales recently. An inspector appointed by the State Government to investigate the condition of the industry, visited a number of warehouses, and again was faced with the same unwillingness to push the sale of Australian-made goods. At one Warehouse he asked if they had any Australian-made serges, and they taid, "No." When he opened one parcel, however, he found that it bore the stamp of the Australian Woollen Mills. People who deliberately defame the Australian secondary industries should be punished. If ever we are to become a great nation we must give every encouragement to our secondary as well as our primary industries, and co-operate earnestly for the good of the Commonwealth. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Duncan)  adjourned. 
The thing is done, and I am faced with the alternative of saying that the Government is no longer worthy of the confidence of those of us who believe that the contract for the second cruiser should have been given to Australia, and that our support should be transferred to another party which has made it quite clear, by  Senator Needham's  own admission, that it does not believe in the construction of cruisers at all. 
My attitude is that the present Government can satisfactorily meet the opinions of honorable senators supporting it more easily than it will be possible for the honorable senator who interjects to satisfactorily meet th03e of his. supporters. The difference between honorable senators on this side and honorable senators opposite is that we are free to express our opinions openly and frankly. If we differ from the Government, we are free to say that in this or that matter the Government is wrong Having done so, we continue bo support the Government, which we believe is the best we can have, in the circumstances. One mistake on its part does not justify us in refusing any longer to support a Ministry that has done so much for the defence of Australia, and replace it by one which will do nothing, adequate to defend Australia. Honorable senators opposite did their utmost to block these cruisers being constructed, but when it was determined, despite their efforts, that they should be built, they said, " All right, but construct them in Australia." Their attitude is not honest. They are either in favour of the adequate naval defence of Australia or they are not. On their own admission, they are not, and they have no right to criticize the Government or its supporters for doing what they deem best to provide that adequate naval defence. 
I wish to say just a few words about immigration. I do not believe in indiscriminate immigration. I believe that we should tighten up our immigration laws to keep out the people we do not want, and that our Immigration Restriction Act is inadequate to meet the situation now existing. But I also believe that the Government can be trusted to bring forward the necessary amendments to that legislation to  enable  us to preserve our purity of race, and those opportunities which our people enjoy to develop adequately, not only their own personal characteristics, but also the future of this great country of ours. That being so, honorable members on this side of the chamber cannot take very much notice cf much that has been said by honorable senators opposite during this debate. Th.ay object, not only to the immigration of Italians and others to Australia, whom they have specially mentioned, but also to all immigrants. They say that no man shall come here as an immigrant, assisted or otherwise, unless the moment he steps off the boat it is possible for him to go to a job, or in some other way provide for himself and those who are dependent on him. That is a very worthy ideal, but although they say it is essential for any government to provide adequate employment for those who come to Australia, there would be a howl, of rage from the Labour party if this or any other government attempted to make provision for the employment of those who caine here from overseas whilst there were already in Australia persons walking about seeking, or allegedly seeking, for work. Honorable senators opposite object to the immigration of Italians, yet they belong to a party which has as one of its members sitting in another Chamber the son of an Italian. They object to the iaimigration of southern Europeans, and in the next breath talk proudly of  Mr. Theodore,  who is the son of a southern European. They object to immigrants generally, yet they- give to immigrants from Heaven knows where some of the most important positions in the gift of the Labour movement in Australia. When we remember such things as these, we recognize that honorable senators opposite are talking with their tongues in their cheeks. It is not to them we must look for the preservation of the racial purity of this country, or for the preservation of our ideals, or for the upholding of our industrial rights and conditions. We must look to the party supporting the Government, which is all the time fully cognizant of the real facts of the  position and determined to maintain all those things which are worth preserving in the national life of Australia. 
On the first reading of the Supply Bill one  has,  if so disposed, an opportunity to cover a wide area. However, at this hour, and in view of the fact that the Government desires to pass the bill as speedily as possible, it is not my intention to make a lengthy speech. I shall content myself by briefly replying to some of the statements made by honorable senators  on  the other side of the chamber. We have had  a  characteristic speech from  Senator Lynch.   He indulged in a good deal of shadow-sparring. He said - and probably he spoke the truth - that in bygone years he made sacrifices to build up the Labour movement in Australia. He is not the only man who has done so. Now, apparently, because he is not associated with that movement, he is prepared to make sacrifices in an endeavour to damage it. Any effort he might make iw that direction would be as futile as would be the effort of one who attempted to stop the incoming tide with a broom. The honorable senator also endeavoured to link up with the Labour party in Australia what he called the remnants from foreign countries. He mentioned the name of a gentleman who is well able to look after himself, and who will probably defend himself against the honorable senator's charges when he has had an opportunity to peruse the columns . of  Hansard.  I inform  Senator Lynch  that those to whom he referred are not associated in a political sense with the Labour party in Australia, and have nothing in common with it. No one should know that better than the honorable senator himself if he reads the newspapers that are published in the various states. Recently an election 'was held in New South Wales. Some of the gentlemen mentioned by the honorable senator stood for election, not as Labour candidates, but in opposition to Labour, and in every case the deposit had to be forfeited. The total number of votes polled by those three candidates was, I think, about 810. When the people of New South Wales had the opportunity to express their opinion regarding the party which the honorable senator said is different from what it was when he belonged to it, the intelligent democracy of that state returned a majority of its members to the Parliament, and to-day there is a Labour Government in power there. There is no difference between the -party now and when  Senator Lynch  was associated with it. There is, it is true, a difference in its opinion regarding the means by. which Australia should be defended. The whirligig of time brings many changes in every sphere of human activity. In matters of defence events are taking on a different aspect every day, and those means of defence that yesterday, figuratively speaking, were considered up to date, are to-day out of date. To say that the Labour party is not keenly anxious  to defend Australia and its people is incorrect. Our policy of defence is distinct from that which is favoured by the Government.  Senator Drake-Brockman,  who is considered to be an authority on matters of defence, has made the damaging statement that the millions of pounds that have been expended by the Government upon defence would not safeguard Australia or the lives and liberties of its people for more than 48 hours. If -the Labour party had not a better programme than that, it would deserve the treatment that I hope will be meted out to this Government at the next general election.  Senator Lynch  insidiously endeavoured to link up with the Labour party what .he considered to be a dangerous element. He would make the readers of  Hansard  believe that those men had played a part in formulating a policy for the political Labour party in Australia. They have not played such a part, because in the . main they do not believe in political action. They are opposed to political action because they believe that better results can be obtained by direct action. The Labour party has always favoured constitutional action. It has progressed because it has been a constitutional party. When, a few years ago, it was ..confronted with difficulties in its effort to bring about greater reform, it appealed to the people to grant to the Commonwealth Parliament the additional powers that were thought to be necessary. The electors, however, rejected those proposals. If the opportunity again presents itself - and it probably will - another attempt, will be made to secure for this Parliament the constitutional powers that are enjoyed by almost every State Parliament in Australia. 

 Senator Guthrie recently made an extraordinary statement that should not 'be allowed to go unchallenged in this chamber. In his eulogy of the Government he said that never in the history of -the Commonwealth were the finances in a more . satisfactory state, and never were the masses in a more prosperous condition. That, he contended, was due to the present Government. Such an opinion surely could not have been seriously considered before it was. uttered. Every observant man knows that at the present time a cloud of depression overhangs Australia. It is my belief that the longer the present Government is in power the darker and heavier will that cloud become. There is to-day financial stringency. There is a slump in our staple products. Many of the men on the land are in a precarious condition. Industries are struggling. For the moment, at any rate, the bottom has 'fallen out of the building trade, and there are more houses to let in Melbourne and suburbs than there have been for many years.  There is a bigger army of unemployed than there has been for a very long time. When  Senator Guthrie  said that we had never been in a more satisfactory financial position he surely overlooked the fact that, in playing its part in the world Avar, Australia became saddled with a debt of about £350,000,000 that it did not have anterior to the Avar, and that it is necessary to provide for the payment of £19,000,000 annually as interest on that sum, in addition to £2,000,000 to a sinking fund. The honorable senator must have a very short memory.  What happened during last session and the session before it ? The Government passed through Parliament bills providing for the payment of bounties. For what reason ? The canned fruit bounty represented approximately £27,000, the wine export bounty £26,000, and the meat export bounty more than £120,000. Why were those amounts paid? Because it Avas known  that the people who were engaged in those industries  were  unable to find markets for their commodities. I said then, and I say again now, that until the credit of Europe is restored, until the sun of prosperity again shines in Europe, Australia will always be confronted Avith financial difficulties. Our prosperity is but a reflection of Europe's prosperity. It is true that Ave produce in abundance commodities for  which  the world is hungering, but which it cannot purchase because of the destruction of its credit. 

 Senator Guthrie also stated that  Mr. Ramsay  MacDonald, ex-Prime Minister of Great Britain, and the members of the British Labour party associated Avith him, had condemned the White Australia policy. Inferentially, the Leader of the Senate said to-day that he had read the statement that  Mr. Ramsay  MacDonald had made in opposition to the .White Australia policy. I ask the Leader of the Senate to quote his proof of that statement. Pains have  been taken to peruse the  Hansard  of the House of Commons, and other official documents that are in our library, and no speech of the ex-Prime Minister of Great Britain can be quoted in which such a statement was made. In justice to himself and his Government, the Leader of the Senate should furnish the proof. 
Apparently, the Prime Minister is unable to bring forward any proof in confirmation of his statement.  Senator Guthrie  said that the Ramsay MacDonald Government Avas, to use his own expression, "kicked out," because it was opposed  to the White Australia policy, find for other reasons. That which more than anything else helped to defeat the Ramsay MacDonald Government was not a question of policy, but a letter, or a supposed letter. The British Trades Union delegates who went to Russia specially to investigate the matter found that tho letter Avas not  written  by one Zinovieff. After making exhaustive inquiries into the matter, they found that the letter that turned the tide of political affairs in England Avas a fake. 
I do not know I desire also to reply to  Senator Duncan's  statement that the Labour party is opposed to any form of immigration. That :s not sO; but the Labour party is opposed to the policy of the present Government in sending work out of Australia, ?.nd at the same time bringing workers here to add to the already huge army of unemployed. There are in the different states of the Commonwealth skilled tradesmen of every description out of work. Many of them have been our of work for some time. 4. 
In connexion with such an important matter a3 unemployment we should be prepared to work overtime. No question is of more importance. Those  Who  have been unemployed, and know the suffering consequent thereon, can have nothing but the greatest sympathy for the men who are out of work. Unemployment shatters many a home, and it casts a shadow over many that it does not shatter. We must not forget that the employed man to-day may be the unemployed man of tomorrow. Many men in Government departments, both Federal and state, who anticipated having constant work through the winter have been thrown out of employment. This party holds that when, ns at present, there is a large army of unemployed, it is unfair and inhuman to ask men and women from other countries to come here. If the Government had a policy for Australians as good as lhat which it adopts in regard to Maltese, I should have no fault to find with it. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  said that the Government would not admit Maltese unless a guarantee was given that employment would be available for them on arrival. Why are these people singled out for special treatment? The Government has not been prepared to assist the Australian workmen to the same extent. Some time ago there was a building boom in most of the states of the Commonwealth, but now, owing to financial stringency, there is a lull in house-building At the time I said that it would not last; that things would eventually find their own level, and that, instead of a shortage of men there would be plenty of labour offering for any work available. The Government, in cooperation with the Governments of certain states, agreed to import carpenters, bricklayers, and other artisans connected with the building trade. I said then that there was no justification for such action. What has been the result? Recently, in response to an advertisement in one of our newspapers for two carpenters, 200 men presented themselves at the Melbourne Town Hall in the hope of finding employment. A friend of mine who is engaged in the building trade told me that on one day recently 60 men applied to him for employment. 
If  Senator Lynch  had been here a few moments ago he would have heard my statement that the men on the land were having a difficult time. The honorable senator probably received recently a circular from persons  engaged in the dried fruit industry pointing out that, although they had received financial assistance, some of (hem had had to abandon their holdings, while others would have to take similar action unless further assistance were granted. It is easy to talk of settling men on the land. .Victoria resumed land at a cost of £20,000,000 for the settlement of soldiers. Those men, being Australians, understood Australian conditions, and if any section of the , community was qualified to make a success of that undertaking they were. But what has been the net result of that effort to place them on the land  t  Those soldiers are nearly £3,000,000 in arrear with their payments. Altogether 10,565 soldiers were placed on the land; but no less than 1,285, or over 12 per cent, of them, have given up their blocks. Prior to the advent of the present Labour government in Western Australia an arrangement was entered into with the Imperial authorities in regard to immigration. Family groups of immigrants were arranged for. Since the advent of the Labour government the Agent-General has been advised that the policy has not been a success, as many of those who had been placed on the land under the group system had abandoned their holdings. The Minister pointed out in a public statement that the state would have been better off to the extent of £4,000,000 if the scheme had not been adopted. I agree with a recent editorial in the  Age  in regard to immigration - 
When we can show that there is a real demand here for workers we shall soon get them. Thus far the immigration schemes have been hot air, followed by a speedy and unnatural change to a nipping frost. 
That sums up the position in a nutshell. The Government's scheme has been a frost. If the Government introduced a proper system of land settlement, and endeavoured to find work at reasonable wages, and under proper conditions, for those out of employment, the country would develop, and there would be no need to spend millions of money to induce people to come here. The Government has shown no sympathy with the unemployed and the workers generally, and is continuing its policy of negation. It will not make an effort to undertake works already authorized by Parliament, many of which are urgently needed. Work could be found in many directions, even in this building, which some say we will vacate before very long. There is also a reserve adjoining this structure which has been an eyesore for some time, and which, by the employment of a little labour, could' be made an attractive spot. If the Government exercised as much time m protecting the interests of Australians- as it does in safeguarding those of people outside Australia, its actions would to some extent be justified. 
A Labour Government displays a sympathetic feeling towards those who desire assistance, and does all that is humanly possible to alleviate distress. This Government has not made an honest effort to relieve the distress which, exists in Australia at present. 
Although I do not desire to delay the Senate at this hour, one or two matters raised during the debate call for a reply. There is, for instance, a statement made by  Senator Findley,  in a most doleful speech, concerning immigration in Western Australia, which is absolutely incorrect. The honorable senator said that  Mr. Angwin,  the present Acting Premier of Western Australia, has condemned the group settlement system.  Mr. Angwin  has not done anything of the kind, and there is no more fervent supporter and admirer of the group settlement system in Western Australia than  Mr. Angwin.  When the late Government was in office, and  Sir James  Mitchell 'was carrying out this policy, if there was one member in the Parliament who, although in opposition, gave him support, it was  Mr. Angwin. Mr. Angwin  did temporarily cancel an order going forward for more families to be brought out, because he found that the rate at which blocks were being made available was not sufficiently rapid to enable these people to be absorbed. It was, however, only a temporary stoppage, and he announced his intention of resuming the group settlement as soon as blocks were available. 
Yes; and, in justice to  Mr. Angwin, Senator Find-ley's  statements should be contradicted. 
An- attempt has been made . by certain honorable senators t© make it appear that Australia is being flooded by alien, immigrants, but a return which has been supplied to me shows that such is not the case. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  endeavoured to show that Asiatic immigration was increasing. The honorable senator quoted the arrivals, but did not mention the departures, and if one quotes only the arrivals the impression is created that there has been, an increase. The arrivals of Chinese for the quarter ended 31st December, 1924, were 768, and the departures for the same quarter 720. For the quarter ended 31st March, 1.92.5, the arrivals were 650, and the departures during the same quarter 846, so that nearly 200 more left Australia than entered it. The arrivals of Japanese for the quarter ended 31st December, 1924, were 93, and for. the quarter ended 31st March, 1925, 239. Th© departures during the same periods were 69 and 202 respectively. Taking the net Asiatic immigration returns for (he quarter ended 31st December, 1924, the arrivals of coloured people of various nationalities numbered 1,337, and the departures for the same quarter 1,365. For the quarter- ended 31st March, 1925, the arrivals were 1,650 and the departures 1,369. The honorable senator might also have mentioned that for the last quarterly period for which we have the figures the number of Greeks whoarrived: was 305 and the departures 143. The number of Jugo-Slav arrivals during the same period was 103 and the departures 253, while there were 193 Maltese arrivals and 87 departures. There is no cause for alarm in these figures. 
I am quoting from a footnote to the return supplied to the honorable senator. 
I have given the figures, arid the honorable senator may draw from them whatever inference he. pleases. I propose also to quote some figures which are an answer to the argument as to the association of unemployment with increased immigration, and are especially interesting in the light of the figures quoted by  Senator Needham.  Ithas been said that when a large number of immigrants is allowed to come into the country, unemployment is increased. But facts speak louder than words. For the information of the Senate I submit the following table : - 

<graphic href="110332192506255_49_0.jpg"></graphic>

In 1923 immigration was about equal to the previous year, and the number of unemployed continued to fall. In 1924 the excess of arrivals over departures was 43,749, or about three times the excess in 1921; and the percentage of unemployment during the first quarter was only 7.6, as compared with 11.4 in the first quarter of 1921. In the second quarter it was 8.3, as compared with 12.7 ; in the third quarter it was 9.5, as against 11.4; and in the fourth quarter 10.3, as against 9.9: If there is any moral to be drawn from these figures it is that the greater the increase in immigration, the smaller is the number of unemployed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
.- I move - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
I wish to take this opportunity of informing the Senate that the Government has invited the following gentlemen to represent the Commonwealth at the Assembly of the League of Nations to be held at Geneva in September next: -  Senator Drake-Brockman,  the High Commissioner for Australia  (Sir Joseph Cook),  and the  Hon.  George Swinburne. A lady delegate has yet to be appointed. I feel I  shall  be voicing the opinion of honorable senators in extending to  Senator Drake-Brockman  our congratulations upon his selection for this very important duty, because we know that the forthcoming meeting of the 
Assembly will be of the utmost importance not only to Australia, but to the civilized world. We feel sure that  Senator DrakeBrockman  is well qualified to represent the Commonwealth, and.  will  carry out his duties there with credit to himself and to Australia. 
HonorableSenators.  -  Hear, hear! 
I also wish to state that, during the absence of  Senator Drake-Brockman, Senator Duncan  will act as Government Whip. 
I should like to know if  it  is the intention of the Government to appoint a Labour delegate to the forthcoming Assembly of the League of Nations. 
A Labour representative was sent on the last occasion. I feel sure that the honorable senator mentioned will carry out his duties with satisfaction. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow :  - 
Yes.. 
The effect of the judgment is being consideredby the Commonwealth Law officers. 
asked the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
How many leases, if any, have been granted under the provisions of Ordinance No. 10 of 1914 of the Territory for the Seat of Government relating to church lands leases? 
What are the names of the lessees? 
What is the total area leased? 
What is the total rental per annum? 
The information is not available in Melbourne. Inquiries are being made, and a reply will be furnished as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
What was the total sum received by the Commonwealth in respect of terminal cable charges for the year 1923-24 for ordinary, deferred,  press,  and other classes of traffic? 
What proportion of this sum approximately represented, traffic actually handled by the Commonwealth Post Office over land lines operated by the Post Office (i.e., excluding traffic operated by the cable administrations over lines leased by them ? 
What was the cost of maintenance of land lines leased to the Eastern Extension Company ond Pacific Cable Board respectively for the year 1923-24? 
Whatwas the interest charge on the capital cost of such lines? 
What was the total loss on the Telegraphic Branch of the Postmaster-General's Department for tho year 1923-24 without crediting cable terminal charges for which the Post Office performed no services? 
Will the Postmaster-General, in future reports of the Department, show clearly the receipts in respect of cable terminal charges and separate these figures from ordinary receipts of the Telegraph Branch? 
The desired information is being obtained, and will be supplied as soon as available. 
 I move - 
That  the Bill be  now read a second  time. 
In introducing this Supply Bill, I remind honorable senators that the unexpended votes included in the annual appropriations out of revenue lapse on the 30th June. The Government will, therefore, be unable to payfor the ordinary expenses of administration until Parliament grants fresh supply. It is particularlynecessary this year that supply shall be granted before the commencement of the new financial year, for the reason that the first salary pay-day falls on 3rd July ; and some time is necessary, after tho Supply Bill is passed by the Senate, to obtain the Governor-General's warrant, and make the necessary credit available to the more distant States. This bill is  to cover  approximately two months' expenditure. A total of £4,459,235 is being asked for to ment the following expenditure: - 

<graphic href="110332192506266_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

No provision is being made for expenditure that has not been approved by Parliament, and the amounts included in the bill are based  on  the Estimates for 1924- 1925. The amount of £3,109,235, which is asked for to meet ordinary departmental expenditure and repatriation expenses, is an increase of £93,311, over one-sixth of the estimated expenditure on these services for the current financial year, but the increase is more than accounted for by the additional provision necessary to meet the cost of arbitration awards, granted since the Estimates for 1924-1925 were framed. It must be remembered, also, that five pay-days full within the period to be covered by this supply. The amount of £350,000, provided for refunds of revenue, is also in excess of one-sixth of the total expenditure for the year. The additional amount is required, because the assessment of refunds of direct taxation, following upon the Dalrymple judgment, and on the amendment of the law in respect to the optional method of valuation of live-stock, has not yet been completed. It will be remembered that the Lessee Tax Bill was rejected by the Senate last year, and, consequently, refunds to. a much greater extent than was anticipated when the budget proposals were made have been rendered necessary. The amount of £1,000,000 for Advance to the Treasurer is provided mainly to continue public works in progress at 30th June, pending the passing of the Loan Bill and the Appropriation (Additions, New Works, and Buildings) Bill for 1925-1926. The finances for the year just closing are in a highly satisfactory condition. The Customs revenue for the first ten months of the year was buoyant, and even if the shrinkage in the May figures is continued in June, the total for the year will still how a substantial increase on the estimate. There appears to be no doubt that the year will close with a surplus considerably in excess of the budget estimate of £626,035 ; but as the closing  weeks  of the year have a marked bearing on its net financial operations it is not possible to forecast the result with any certainty. Early in July an approximate statement for the full year will be made available, and it is anticipated that the figures then disclosed will not be materially altered when the final returns are obtainable. The Treasurer proposes to introduce the budget as early as possible in the new financial year, and before the supply now asked for is exhausted, honorable senators will be informed of the Government's financial proposals for 1925-1926. 
.- On the first reading of this Bill I asked the Minister for Home and Territories  (Senator Pearce)  to supply me with information as to the width of the tunnels proposed to be constructed on the Grafton to South Brisbane railway. 
 There is no provision in this bill for the construction of tunnels on the railway to which the honorable senator refers. 
I understand that the work to which the honorable senator refers is being carried on by the States of Queensland and New South "Wales, and that it is being constructed out of loan funds. The honorable senator would be quite in order in discussing it on a Loan Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee: 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Schedule. 
In connexion with Division No. 11, "Public Service Board, salaries and contingencies, £6,753," I wish to bring under the notice of the Government the method adopted by the Public Service Board in respect to persons desiring to enter the Public Service. A case was brought under my notice, which appears to be exceptionally hard, as in consequence of the operation of the regulations framed under the Public Service Act a fine type of lad named Nunn has been definitely prevented from becoming a permanent public servant. In January last a vacancy occurred at the Sheffield post office in Tasmania owing to the holder of the position at that time having attained the age at which he was qualified to enter a higher grade. This lad who had just completed his schooling -was accepted as a temporary officer in place of the officer to be transferred, and when he temporarily entered the Public Service he was within nine months of reaching his sixteenth year. On the 16th May of last year he wrote to the  Deputy  PostmasterGeneral at Hobart as follow : - 
At present I am employed at the Sheffield! post office as temporary messenger, and havebeen doing this work for three months, and would like to make a permanent position of" same if possible. Would you kindly inform  me when the next examination is likely to - take place, as I am now fifteen years and six months of age, born on the 3rd November . 1908, and do not wish to lose the opportunity of qualifying before I am over the age limit. 
He received a reply to that letter stating.' that his request had been submitted to tb.es Public Service Inspector, and that an examination was to be held for the appointment of a telegraph messenger at Sheffield, but no date had been fixed. Nunn, is a bright youth, and was highlyesteemed by the officer in charge of the post office at Sheffield. He was most attentive to his duties, and though he had made special application in ample timehe was not given the opportunity to offerhimself for examination. The reason assigned was that there was no vacancy in the office because the officer who was to&gt; be transferred was being retained, as noposition was then available for him. 1 wrote to the Public Service Commissioner in Melbourne and asked if an examination had been held. I also asked!! whether, if this lad had passed the examination and a vacancy had occurred afterhe had reached the age of sixteen years,., his position would have been prejudiced., and the reply was in the negative. Nunn* is the eldest son of a war widow, has received a good education, and his chances have been entirely spoilt by what appears to be neglect on the part of the officers of the department in not providing facilities for an examination before he reached the age- of sixteen years. If incidents of" this kind occur many of our best and brightest young men will be prevented! from entering the Public Service. This; lad is now over sixteen years of age, and1 having been prevented from sitting for an examination is debarred from enteringthe Public Service. I trust the Minister will thoroughly investigate the whole matter to see if something can be done to obviate a recurrence of such an unfortunate incident. It appears that.  under the regulations the Public ServiceCommissioner has no. option but to refuse to admit such lads, and if such is the case, the regulations should be amended. 
I shall bring the remarks of the honorable senator under the notice of the Public Service Commissioner. A somewhat similar case came under my notice, but when I investigated it I found that what appeared in the first place to be unreasonable was, in effect, nothing of the kind. In endeavouring to prevent one individual being unfairly treated, injustice may be done to many others: Of course, there is a very large number of suitable persons who wish to enter the Public Service, but it does not necessarily follow that those who pass the examination are more brilliant than those who may subsequently become available. All of these brilliant young men do not reach the age of sixteen years at the same time, and if examinations had to be held immediately prior to prospective applicants reaching their sixteenth year, we can easily see that such examinations would haveto be conducted continually. If an examination had to be held to suit one particular individual, the same course would have to be adopted in other similar circumstances. It is very fortunate that so many intelligent youths are anxious to join the Public Service; but if examinations were held too frequently, positions could not possibly be found f or successful applicants.. 
Senator.Ogden. - If a candidate passes, an examination before he reaches his sixteenth year, can he. not. be appointed to- a permanent position later ? 
Yes. It was represented to me when I was considering the case brought. under my notice that if the suggested remedy were applied, it would' not be long before there would be thousands of persons clamouring for admission to the Service. I understand examinations are held only at stated periods because it has been found that even then the board can get a larger number of applicants than there are positions to fill. The. position, as put to me, seems quite logical but I shall bring the case mentioned under the notice of the Public Service Commissioner. 
I do not think the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  has entirely grasped the position of this particular individual.For the information of the Minister I shall read the first portion of a communication I received from the  chairman  of the Public Service Board, dated 8th January, 1925 - 
With reference to your letter ofthe 31st December, 1924, relative to the case of Walter Nunn, of the Post Office, Sheffield, I desire to inform you that, in May, 1924, Master Nunn asked for ad-vice as to when the next examination would be held at Sheffield for appointment as telegraph messenger. At the time, no vacancy existed at Sheffield. 
If there had: been a vacancy in any other part of the state to which the officer to be transferred could have been appointed, Nunn could have joined the Service; but as no vacancy occurred, Nunn wasemployed as a temporary officer. He applied to be examined in May, but no examnation was held between that month and December of that year, when he reached his sixteenth birthday. The letter continues - 
The vacancy caused by the promotion of Master Wright did not actually occur until the 5th December; 1924, owing to the fact that, although ittook effect retrospectively from the 13th October;1924, such promotion was not effected until confirmedby the Public Service Board. 
A vacancy occurred before Nunn  reached  the age of sixteen years, but as it had not been confirmed by the Public Service Board, he was prevented from joining the Service. In a letter from the Public Service Board, dated 5th December, 1924, it is stated - 
Had the examination been held, and Master Nunn been, a candidate, the fact that he was over age at the date of. the occurrence of the vacancy would not ordinarily have prejudiced him as regards his permanent appointment: 
The letter from the Commissioners showsthat provision could have been made for Nunn to pass his examination, but in view of the extraordinary circumstances, that was not done, and, he was debarred from becoming a permanent public officer. I shall be glad if the. Minister will make, further investigations into this case, and I will, if. he desires,, supplyhim with the correspondence in my possession. 
In connexion, with this proposed vote the amount set apart for contingen  cies  appeals to .be very large in relation to the total for salaries, and I should like to be enlightened as to the details. 
Perhaps  Senator Thompson  is not familiar with .the practice of dealing with Supply Bills. This measure is -based on the Estimates o!f receipts and expenditure for the previous year. If the honorable senator has his copy, and 'will look at the corresponding division and items under receipts and -expenditure, he will find 'all the particulars fully -set out. The items are compressed into -a single line in this bill to avoid unnecessary printing. 
I wish to direct attention to the items under Immigration, on page 5 - "Australian organization, £5,725; London organization, £4,900; making a .total of £10,625." This, I take dfc, is  portion  of the amount which we pa,y annually towards expenditure under our present immigration .policy, and I wish to place upon record my protest against the continuance of this practice of voting money for the purpose mentioned. .Instead of expending money in this way, the Government should make the conditions in Australia so attractive that people would come 'here of their own volition. Though we have no organizations in Malta, Slovakia, or Italy, for the purpose of inducing people to come to Australia, .and granting them financial assistance, emigrants from those countries are arriving here in increasing numbers for the obvious reason that 'they are under the belief that conditions in Australia are much better than in their own country. If there is any desire, and we are assured by -the Government and its supporters that there is, to introduce British immigrants, it would be more satisfactory if, instead of expending public -money on immigration, the Government gave attention to the improvement of living conditions in the Commonwealth to such an extent that people would come here of their own free will and at their own .expense. 
I am not aware that the money voted under this heading is being expended in advertising. 
I very much doubt if it is. .1 .have made inquiries, and it' appears to me that only a small 'portion of the vote is expended by the Government .in the way indicated by the Minister. In the early days of settlement in Australia, when payable gold was discovered., there was a great rush of people to this country in the belief that they would be able to get :a better return for their labour here than anywhere else in the world. The Government should induce the State Governments to make more land available for settlement. There could not possibly :be a worse .advertisement for Australia than .reports which appear occasionally in such highly respectable papers as -the  Sydney Morning Herald,  the  Daily Telegraph,  or the  Labour Daily,  about the -extraordinary .rush of  applicants  for blocks of land that are thrown open for settlement. Hundreds 01- .experienced people, who want no assistance from the Commonwealth Bank or any other financial institution,' enter the ballots for available blocks. Some time ago there were no- less -than 900 applicants for a homestead block in western 'New .South Wales. This is a clear indication that the Government .in that state is .not making sufficient land available, to meet the requirements of men already in Austrafia - Australian citizens who wish to go on the land. My complaint is that the actual -state of affairs 'as regards the rush for land is not disclosed by the publicity agencies of the Commonwealth. Nothing is said about the rush in connexion with, land ballots in New South Wales, so it is unfair -for the Government to continue the expenditure of public money in this way. It may be true - I do not subscribe to the statement - that the arrival of a great number of people does not affect unemployment in Australia. I think it does. It is easy to quote figures in support of the contrary view. Figures can be made to prove almost anything. We are .assured , on what appears to be fairly reliable authority, that there are between 12,000 and 13.000 unemployed persons in New South Wales at the present time. Surely this state of affairs should make the Government pause before expending further money, directly or .indirectly, to induce more people to come to Australia. The  first care of the Government snell ;:d be to make the conditions in Australia more attractive. It would be the best advertisement for the Commonwealth if people  m4ia&gt;  might wish to come here knew that -they would be able to find employment at  i  remunerative wages. Why the present policy should be continued I am at a loss to understand. 'I do not know how .many unemployed people there are in Victoria, but I have been assured that the number is considerable, and I have no doubt that the same state of affairs prevails throughout the Commonwealth. Having regard to the fact that the great  bulk of the people who would come here -under our immigration policy would expect to have an opportunity to do useful, productive work, the first duty of the Government is to find work for those who are already here. 
 Senator Grant's  remarks confirm the belief that honorable senators opposite want neither alien nor British immigrants to come to Australia. 
I will prove what I am saying before I resume my seat. Since we have to defend this country, and it is clear that we cannot do so with only  5,750,000 people, we must induce more people to come to Australia, and in furtherance of this policy we may encourage cither aliens or Britishers. 
It is not the policy -of this Government to encourage the immigration of aliens. We have shown by administration and by legislation of recent years that we desire to encourage Britishers to come to Australia. 
The honorable senator knows that the Commonwealth Government has no control over the land laws of New South Wales. That matter is entirely under the control of the people of that state. The Parliament of New South Wales is elected on exactly the same franchise as the Parliament of the Commonwealth. So whatever the conditions in regard to land settlement there may be we must assume that they have the approval of the people in that state. I wish to emphasize that this vote is not to be used to bring out a single immigrant to New South Wales, unless the Government of that state asks for one, or unless an immigrant is nominated by some person in that state and guaranteed support or employment. If  Senator Grant  wants British immigrants,, what possible objection can he have to the vote? But he objects to Britishers coming here, even if they are nominated by their friends or relatives, and guaranteed employment. 
If the honorable senator does not object to British immigrants he cannot object to this vote, because that is how the money is to be expended. 
Yes. 
In the instructions issued for the expenditure of the money. 
It is for the Immigration Office. That is what  Senator Grant  objects to. It is for publicity purposes, to let Britishers know the conditions under which they may obtain assisted passages. 
If  Senator Grant  objects to this vote he must necessarily object to immigrants being brought to Australia either at the request of a State Government or under the nomination system by relatives or friends, who guarantee them employment. 
The honorable senator is an elector of the State of New South Wales; let him place his objection before the Government of that state. 
There is a Labour Government in New South Wales, and it  has  in its hands the solution of the difficulty that has been referred to by  Senator Grant.  It is not the duty of the Commonwealth Government to apply the remedy. It is not true that in the Commonwealth there is not plenty of land, and that it is not being made available. In Queensland and  Western  Australia there is land, and it is being made  available.  Senator Hoare  last night quoted a statement that had been made by  Mr. Gillies,  or another of the Queensland Ministers, that if the Queensland Government were supplied with the necessary money it would undertake to settle on the land 2,000 people every year during the next twenty years. ^ 
In the face of that statement, what is the use of  Senator Grant  saying that there is no land available in Australia? The Western Australian Labour Government has indicated that it approves of this immigration agreement, although it is not absolutely satisfied with it, and it does not meet all its requirements. It is, nevertheless, prepared to operate under it. Naturally, it would accept greater advantages if they were offered. If I were asked whether I should like the interest on my overdraft to be reduced from 7 per cent to 3^ per cent., would I not say " Yes " ? Of course, if the Western Australian Government could obtain the money at a lower rate of interest it would derive greater satisfaction from the agreement. 
I understand that the agreement is generally acceptable to that Government. In any case, the statement appeared in the columns of the  West Australian  that, whilst the Government was not satisfied with the agreement in every particular, it was prepared to accept it. It is obvious that that Government will accept the agreement, as under it money will be made available for developmental purposes at an interest rate of only 1 per cent. No doubt, if the agreement provided for interest at the rate of  per cent, it would be accepted much more readily. 
Western Australia has suitable land, but it cannot be made available immediately, because it has to be opened up by railways. This agreement will enable those railways to be constructed.  Senator Needham  knows quite well that in the area beyond Bruce Rock there are thousands of acres of good wheat-growing country that would be taken up if railway communication were provided. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  and I went out towards that country and met people who were living on the fringe of it. They informed us that if the railways were pushed further out the settlement would extend miles beyond its present limit into good wheat-growing country. What is the use of trying to humbug the people by making it appear that there is no land available? 
The honorable senator should put that question to tlie Labour Government in South Australia. 
The Commonwealth Government does not administer the land laws of South Australia, and it does not bring immigrants to South Australia unless the South' Australian Government asks that they be brought, or they are nominated and assisted or guaranteed employment by some person in South Australia. Does the honorable senator object to its doing that? 
I did not say that land was available in South Australia. I mentioned only Queensland and Western Australia. I quoted the exPremier of Queensland,  Mr. Theodore,  asmy authority for saying that there is land: available in Queensland. He was quoted* also by  Senator Hoare,  who is  Senator  McHugh's  colleague. 
Neither am I. Either the statement is true, or it is untrue. If it is true, it confirms what I said, that there is land which can be made available in Queensland, as well as in Western Australia. This agreement, with which  Senator Wilson  has been very closely connected, will enable money to be provided to make that land available. 
I have answered the first charge made by  Senator Grant.  The reply to his other charge is that the Commonwealth Government is not bringing out immigrants to Australia except under the conditions set out in the agreement. If honorable senators really desire to defend. Australia, and to populate it with British stock, they should not only support this vote heartily, but also urge that it be increased. 
 I doubt whether the Western Australian Government is about to agree to the immigration agreement. The  West Australian  may have contained a statement that led the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  to say that it was, but I am in a position to tell honorable senators that the agreement will not be ratified by the Western Australian Government until the return of the Premier of Western Australia to Perth. 
 Senator Pearce  has just stated that the Western Australian Government is about to- accept the agreement. 
There is a long way yet to go before the Western Australian Government will ratify the agreement. I admit the truth of the statement that there is plenty of land in Western Australia upon, which people could be settled. It is true that the district mentioned by  Senator Pearce  contains excellent wheat-growing country, but it is also true - and this fact was not mentioned by the honorable senator - that alongside existing railway lines in Western Australia there is a vast area of land that is tied up. That is not the fault of the Labour Government there. As  Senator McHugh  stated in regard to South Australia, when the Government of Western Australia brings down a measure to release that land it will be opposed by th, Legislative Council. 
Yea. and it was blocked by the Legislative Council. It. might be worth the cost to build additional lines of railway to open up new country, but it cannot be denied that there is a lot of land that is tied up along side existing main trunk lines. 
They are pocketing the unearned increment on that land. Their attitude is that of the dog in the manger; they will not till the land themselves, and they will not allow others to do so unless they are paid a fancy price for it.  Senator Pearce  stated that  Senator Grant's;,  objection to this vote indicated, that honorable senators  ion  this side are opposed to immigration. There is no use in his trying to colour the matter in that way. He knows perfectly well that we recognize the necessity for peopling this continent. Where we differ from the Government is in regard to the selection of types of immigrants' and the manner in which they are absorbed on arrival in Australia whilst our own people are  v  n employed. 
I should not, under this vote. The Minister is trying ro make out that the objections lodged by  Senator Grant  indicate that we on this side are opposed to immigration. 
The honorable senator has just wakened from a sleep, and he does not know what I am talking about. It might be wise, when advertising in Great Britain, to give the people there some indication of the conditions that have to be faced after arrival in Australia. A film could be taken showing the rush of applicants when a block  of  land in. an area served by a good rainfall is submitted to the ballot. Time after time it has been stated m  thi3  chamber that 400, 500, 600, and 700 people have applied for one block of land in Ne&lt;v S&gt;outh Wales. 
. -The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  endeavoured to prove that the Labour party is now, and always has been, opposed to immigration. That is  partly correct, and it .as partly incorrect. We have always stated boldly that we are opposed to that system .of immigration which entails a heavy .charge upon the taxpayers of Australia at a time when many thousands of Australians are unemployed. The Government is ap.parently prepared to continue the policy of spending thousands of pounds in publicity work with the object of bringing to Australia a great number of men a.nd women who will be added to the ranks of the unemployed.  Senator Pearce  stated that behind the immigration proposals of the Government was the desire to make provision for the defence of Australia. We must, therefore, conclude that, no matter how bad the conditions are bo-day or may be to-morrow, the sole concern of the Government is to bring thousands of people  to  Australia. It evidently believes that if there is a large number of men and women competing for the work that is offering, a benefit will be  conferred  upon that section of the community which financially supports it. I say that fearlessly. This Government would not be in office to-day if it were not for the financial backing of people whose interests are diametrically opposed to those of the workers of Australia. 

 -(Senator Newland). - I call the honorable senator's attention to the fact that this item refers only to the immigration organizations in London and Australia. I have allowed honorable senators a great deal of latitude, but I must now ask them to confine their remarks to the item before the Chair, and not to enter upon a discussion of immigration generally. 
Order ! The honorable senator is not in order in referring in that way to my remarks. 
The item before the Chair is the organizations in London and Australia. 
That is 'getting :a"way from the question of organization.. 
The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
. As  Senator Findley  and myself are colleagues, inasmuch as in this Senate we both represent Victoria, I desire to refer to his remarks regarding the land available for settlement here. 
In view of the fact that much of this vote has been expended in advertising, and that the advertisements issued by the Melbourne office and in New South Wales do not truthfully represent the position in Australia, I move - 
That any publications forwarded to Great Britain for circulation shall contain the following two extracts from two well-known Sydney newspapers, and that no literature be issued by this department unless such literature contains these two extracts - 
I understand that the item covers the cost of advertising the resources of the Commonwealth. 
As I do not desire to delay the passage of the Supply Bill, I shall take another opportunity of placing before honorable senators the extracts from the Sydney newspapers to which I have referred, and of seeking to incorporate them with any literature issued for circulation in Great Britain, so that the people there may be acquainted with the true state of affairs in the Commonwealth, so far as land settlement is concerned. 

 Senator McHUGH (South Australia) 
Australian organization to seek information in Australia as to where land will be available for immigrants after they have been brought here as the result of the propaganda work in the Old Country? The statement that we on this side are opposed to immigration is made by honorable senators opposite for political purposes. They know that before long there will be a Federal election,' and are anxious to obtain the votes of those people who have come here from overseas. Possibly supporters of the Government imagine that they will secure votes by declaring that honorable senators of the Opposition do not want people to come here from the other side of the world. As a matter of fact, what we are anxious to do is to protect people, many of 'whom have been brought to Australia under false pretences, from meeting with something which they did not expect. I have no doubt the South Australian Government will co-operate in any scheme of migration. It has already very wisely appointed a commission to ascertain where land which could be made use of, and which is being held out of use, can be acquired by the state for the purpose of settling not only people from overseas, but also those returned soldiers who, so far, have been unable to get any land in Australia. It is easy to say that in a country containing '3,000,000 square miles there should be any quantity of land. No doubt any quantity of land is available, but it is useless if it will not provide a man with a living. What we require for this purpose is land which can be made reproductive. Notwithstanding the Commonwealth land tax, people are gradually building up large estates in some of the richest parts of South Australia. Many of the northern towns of that state  are  decaying because one or two families have bought up the whole of the rich land surrounding them. Storekeepers and others will not participate in the community life of any town when there are only two or three families to cater for. 
I am sorry. I wanted to get some information from the Minister as to whether he thinks -.he South Australian Government is following the right  course.  It is unnatural for any. honorable senator to oppose people coming to Australia. Our fathers and mothers came here, many of them because they were dissatisfied with the conditions on the other side of the world. Their efforts have resulted in the establishment of better conditions in Australia, and in the interests of those who are already in Australia, and of those who may be brought here, it is our duty now to see that those improved conditions are maintained. 
We raise no objections. All we want is that these people shall be given a fair chance when they come, to Australia. Nevertheless we object to people being brought here while we have from 15,000 to 20,000 people unemployed in Victoria alone. I contend that this is a fact which should be made known on the other side of the world. I expect the unemployed here to remain out of work, because there will be no chance of having a Labour Government in Victoria for another twelve months. There were nearly 20,000 people  out of work in New South Wales recently, but now that the Labour Government has come into power in that state the position should be very much altered within the next few months. . In South Australia, where we have a Labour Government, there is very little unemployment. Our only difficulty in that state is to cope with the influx of unemployed from Victoria. The unemployed have ceased to come to South Australia from New South Wales. 
There is no unemployment in Queensland. No state has grown like Queensland' has within the last few years under Labour administration. People have flocked to the state from the . southern states. 
.1 do not get many opportunities to give honorable senators some information. As a rule I like to hear others talk, so that I may learn something from them. I have  learned a little about Russia. Of course,  Senator Guthrie  thanks his Maker sinserely  for the fact that we are not getting immigrants from Russia. He does not  seem to like the Russian people. Are there any unemployed in Russia? 
Then, we do not want them here to swell the ranks of our unemployed; nor do we want any of our people to go to Russia toswell the ranks of the unemployed there. Like  Senator Guthrie,  I prefer Australia to Russia, and my sole concern is the welfare of Australia, and not that of any  other  country. All the froth and bubble we heard from  Senator Guthrie  about the danger of bolshevism and communism was quite unnecessary in a chamber which is supposed to be legislating in the interests of the people of Australia. The electors of Victoria have a right to object to one of their representatives wasting the time of the chamber with so much froth and bubble about Russia and not offering any constructive suggestions for the benefit of Australia. 
I am not opposed to having a decent organization to control immigration, so long as it seeks to dosomething in the interests of Australia or of thosewe are inviting to come to Australia. I have no objection to spending money on such an organization. 
SenatorFindley.- It all depends on howthe money is spent. 
I am sure the Ministerwill explain that point, and I should like him also to say if any of this money is to be spent in spying out suitable land on which immigrants may be settled. 
SenatorWILSON (South Australia - Minister for Markets and Migration) [12.2'5].  -  If there is one matter that should be dealt with in this Parliament free from party considerations, it is that of immigration. On several occasions on which it has been my duty to address public audiences on this subject, I have tried to keep it above party issues. Therefore, I wasa little hurt when  Senator Findley  said that everything had been done to make political capital out of it. As the Minister controlling migration, I say that the honorablesenator's statement is unquestionably incorrect. The honorable senator's declaration thatthe Government is prepared to rush people into Australia so as to increase the number of unemployed is contrary to facts, and to the wishes of the Government. The Commonwealth does not bring out one immigrant unless he has been nominated by someperson in Australia who guarantees to find work for him, or unless it is requested so to do by a state. The states control the number of people who are brought out to Australia, and Iam looking to them to co-operate with the Commonwealth in accepting the new immigration agreement with the Imperial Government, which I believe will prove a great factor in the development and prosperity of our country. The organization for which provision is made in the schedule to thebill was responsible  for  bringing out over 35,000 immigrants last year. Each immigrant to whom money has been advanced for the payment of his passage is expected to repay the amount. It is the duty of the organization in Australia to followthe immigrantall over the country, and see thathe makes a refund of the money advanced to him; and it is astonishinghow readily the immigrants are making these refunds. It is also the duty ofthe organization here to follow up any cases of complaint, and to see thatthe immigrants are properly treated in accordance with our obligations to them. In the various states the committees which receive nominations are under the control of the Australian, organization,and themoney they spend is provided for in the item now under discussion. There is an organization in London which acts on behalf of all the states, several of the states being directly represented on its staff. The Commonwealth employs inspection officers to inquire exhaustively into the character of all would-be immigrants, and medical officersto make careful examinations into the health of applicants for passages to Australia. The general impression is that immigrants are not offering overseas in sufficient numbers. Almost every day I receive applications from people anxiousto go to England to take part in someeffort to obtain immigrants for Australia. The impression is quite wrong. The difficulty is at thisend. We cannot bring out more persons thanthe states can make provision for or than are nominated by people who undertake to find them employment. We cannot depart from the quotas given by the various states, but I have no hesitation in saying that if-, by a policy of increased developement, Australia could absorb- more immigrants, we would have no difficulty in increasing the number ten times over. Difficulties are not experienced in Great Britain ; the main obstacle is that we cannot immediately absorb all' the people who desire to come here. I am sure honorable senators will not object to money; being made available to the States for ten years at the remarkably low interest of 1 pel- cent. 

 Senator- Grant. -  It is merely a gift to the land-owners. 
Apparently the honorable senator has not read the agreement, because the money is not to be advanced solely for- the purpose of land settlement, but can also be used for the establishment of industries-, and for other similar purposes. 
The operations of this organization are confined to migrants from Great Britain, and those persons to whom the honorable senator has' referred are paying their own expenses. There is nothing whatever in the agreement relating to the migration of Southern Europeans, and the only way in which their influx can be met is by making the conditions here so attractive that larger numbers will come from Great Britain. Western Australia and Queensland afford greater opportunities for further development than perhaps any other state in the Commonwealth . 
I have had a conference with the. Premier of Queensland, but nothing definite has yet been decided by the Government of that state. It may be interesting to know that Victoria, which is one of the smallest and also one of the most prosperous states in the federation, is successfully absorbing more migrants than any other state. 
No. Operations in Victoria had not sufficiently developed to enable a number of migrants coming to 
Victoria to be immediately placed, and they were, therefore, sent on to New South Wales,, where organization was more advanced. If honorable senators would closely peruse the agreement, and make themselves- more conversant, with the whole question, I do not- think they would find much room for criticism. 
There has been' a great deal of misrepresentation' in Parliament, an the public platform, and through the public press in regard to the Labour party's attitude towards immigration. The AustralianLabour party is not opposed to reasonable immigration undertaken by the Commonwealth in conjunction with the states. I wish to give a most emphatic denial to the statements continually made that the Labour party as a -party is hostile to members of the British race migrating to our country. I can endorse what  Senator McHugh  has said ; that it would be almost unnatural for us to adopt a hostile attitude towards British people who may desire to settle here. The majority of us are descendants of British immigrants, and if it had notbeen for the courage and determination of the- men and women in years gone by, who settled in a comparatively unexplored land, we would not be living 'in the comfort we now enjoy. The migrant of to-day travels in what may be termed floating palaces, but those hardy pioneers who preceded us had to cross the ocean, in many cases in " wind-jammers' "' which took eight or nine months to make' -the voyage. To say that the Labour1 party as a party, or that those who- represent' it-in Parliament are opposed to; immigration is a misstatement of the f acts,' and unjust to the great movement to which I belong. 
I- was" merelyplacing on record, the official attitude of the Australian Labour -party. 
If there is employment in our country for British men and women they will always be welcome. The Minister for Markets- and Migration  (Senator Wilson)  stated that more migrants are coming to Victoria than to any other state, but he knows that most of the young experienced farmers on the land in Queensland and in portions of the Riverina are the sons of Victorian farmers who were compelled to leave their own state to conduct farming operations, and their places have been filled by migrants from overseas. 
, - I should like to reply to some of the statements made by honorable senators opposite, one of which was that suitable land was not available for exsoldier settlers. Since the termination of the war the Victorian Government, in conjunction with the migration authorities, has settled over 10,000 ex-soldiers in Victoria, and the proportion of failures has been very small. There is always a percentage of failures under any scheme. I do not suggest that the Victorian Government or those who were responsible for purchasing the land on which ex-soldiers are settled did not make mistakes, because in some instances the blocks are too small and the prices paid too high. 
-No. I am personally acquainted with some returned soldiers who settled in the Wimmera and in the Mallee, and did so well that within two years, from the proceeds of their wheat crops, they returned to the Government in full the money they had borrowed. I know soldiers in the Wimmera, whose property adjoined my farm, who are satisfied with the price paid for the land, and are doing well. The Victorian Government has appointed a commission which is at present making a thorough investigation into the whole question of soldier settlement in order to rectify anomalies, and I believe an honest effort is being made to treat the men fairly. The commission is to reappraise the land, and will also endeavour to provide settlers with additional areas of relatively cheaper land on which they can depasture their dry cows and young cattle. I believe  Senator Findley  stated that there was no land in Victoria suitable for settlement, and in this connexion I should like to quote a portion of an able article which appeared in the Melbourne  Herald  of the 18th April. 
I shall do so. The item relates to the expenditure of ?5,725 for the Australian organization in control of immigration. I desire to quote the article to which I have referred, because it is taken from a newspaper which expresses a broadminded view, and which cannot be accused of being biased in favour of the present administration. The article reads - 
It is suggested that all settlement under the migration scheme be confined to Crown lands. By these means new assets to the state will be created. . . . 
As the items provide for the immigration office, it is necessary to be certain that land is available to absorb people who may be brought to Australia under the scheme. It  has  been stated in this chamber that land is not available in Victoria. Whilst Victoria is more closely settled than the other states, the statement that land is not available here is incorrect. The article goes on to say - 
By these means new assets to the state will be created. Crown lands are to be found in many parts of Victoria, in some cases already served by railways which are unpayable because the land is unsettled. Though Victoria is considered to be fairly well settled, 22,700,000 acres of the total area of 56,200,000 acres are Crown lands. 
Therefore, it is wrong to argue that expenditure, on this organization to bring people to" Australia is money wasted, because,  as  a fact, there is land available. The newspaper article states further - 
Victorian land figures are - 

<graphic href="110332192506266_14_1.jpg"></graphic>

The greater part of the Crown lands  i3  reserved for water catchments, forests, roads, and agricultural colleges. At least 5,000,000 acres is capable of agricultural settlement, and a further 5,000,000 is suitable for subdivision in large areas for more scientific grazing. 
 Is that land out of use at present? 
I desire to express my appreciation of the courtesy .shown by the Minister for Migration and Markets  (Senator Wilson),  who seems disposed to give honorable senators information concerning the items under discussion.  His  attitude is in distinct contrast with that of the Leader of the Government in this chamber  (Senator Pearce),-  who, when he is not in the mood, is not inclined to furnish honorable senators on this side with any information .  Senator Wilson  expressed the hope that finality would be reached in respect of the immigration policy of the Commonwealth. These items suggest that finality will be reached, but it would be just as well to postpone consideration until something definite -has been done in the direction indicated by  Senator Wilson. 
If the scheme outlined by the Minister were not agreed to, there might not be need for the present big staff, and the expenditure contemplated under these items. 
But, apparently, they are leaving as quickly. as they come, according to the figures quoted by the Leader of the Senate. 
I have seen statements in the press of people going down to outward-bound steamers and pleading, with tears in their eyes, to be allowed to get back to the land of their birth. During the last few months several thousands of people from various countries have arrived in Australia, and the statement has been made that ships are not available for all who want to come to this country, ls this the outcome of the publicity scheme, and is the immigration organization partly responsible for it? 
Then how is it that so many aliens who probably never heard of Australia up to a few years ago are now flocking to the Commonwealth in large numbers? What agencies are at work? I am disposed to think that the people concerned have some ulterior motive in bringing these immigrants to Australia. I am a cosmopolitan, but so far as Australia is concerned, I am an Australian first, and I cannot help thinking it is very strange that these people from other countries, many of whom cannot speak a word of English, are now coming here. They cannot be coming of their own volition. Some agency must be at work. They are hardly off the steamer that brings them here before their services are availed of. 
Then there is something in what I said. I was on the right track. 
No one has more sympathy with those in poverty than I and the members of the party to which I belong. It is all very well for the honorable senator who, in his earlier years, was acquainted with hardships, to suggest that we on this side of the chamber care little for people in other lands. We are not indifferent, nor are we responsible for poverty or misery in other lands, but we would be responsible for any poverty or misery in Australia if we did not take advantage of every opportunity to protest vigorously against the activities of agencies or persons interested in bringing about conditions that are not beneficial to Australia or acceptable to the people. 

 Sitting suspended from1 to 2 p.m. 

I move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to reduce the proposed vote " The Department of Defence, £746,830," by £1,  as a protest against the action of the Government in letting in Great Britain a contract for the construction of two cruisers, and against the non-fulfilment of the promise made by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  that before a decision was arrived at regarding the construction of the second cruiser Parliament would be given an opportunity to discuss the matter. I desire to give honorable senators a chance to show whether they approve or disapprove of the action of the Government. Particularly' do I wish to give  Senator Duncan  an opportunity to display that sturdy independence which last evening he announced that he possessed. If he still holds the opinion that he expressed when he spoke upon the Defence Equipment Bill of last session, he will certainly vote for the request. 
 Speaking on the Defence Equipment Bill last year.  Senator Duncan  is reported to have spoken as follows in answer to an interjection by  Senator Hannan:  - 
I shall have the courage to protest most strongly, in this Senate and outside it. 
I shall not vote for such a proposal as that.' 
 I have not, either. 
My votes in this Senate have shown that 1. am prepared to act in accordance with my convictions. 
He also said - 
I sincerely trust that, if time does not permit of the construction of both vessels in Australia, at least one will be built here, thus giving employment to Australian workmen, and ensuring that our naval dockyards shall be kept going, so that when trouble arises they will be ready to undertake repair work and other work. 
The honorable senator, by interjection, has stated that he has not voted for such a proposal. He has not had the opportunity to do so. I think that last session he was under the impression that this Parliament would have an opportunity of deciding the matter. 
 I said so last night.   Senator NEEDHAM.  - The honorable senator apologized for the action of the Government. He said that there was some misunderstanding, and that he wanted to give the Government' the benefit of the doubt. 
A very important announcement was made last night by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  who said that very shortly the mantle of Government Whip will fall upon the worthy shoulders of  Senator Duncan,  who will act in the absenceof my honorable and gallant friend.  Senator Drake-Brockman  at the Assembly of the League of Nations. I wonder what independence  Senator Duncan  will then show ! Whatever little independence he now has he has been very loth to reveal in this chamber; but when he assumes the mantle of  Senator Drake-Brockman,  I assume that even that slight independence will be dropped by him. 
.- In Part VII.,. the Department of Trade and Customs, Division 89, is an item relating to the Commonwealth Institute of Science and Industry. When that institute was established Ibelieved that it would do some really useful work; that, amongst other things, it would take steps to cope with the prickly pear, the tick pest, the blowfly pest, and the dingo pest. Although Parliament provides substantial sums every year for the upkeep of this very important institute, and its efforts are supplemented by those of many other well-meaning persons, the prickly pear is to-day almost a greater menace to Australia than is any other trouble that confronts us. I understand that in Queensland over 30,000,000 acres are either thickly or partially infested with prickly pear, and that the infestation is proceedingat the rate of more than 1,000,000 acres a year. 
The continuous spread of this pest has not been checked. I shall be glad to hear from the Minister that the efforts of the Institute of Science and Industry have had some effect in preventing its spread, and that in time it will be possible to eradicate it. From the reports that have reached me, I have come to the conclusion that very little of a practical nature has been done towards the eradication of this pest. In New SouthWales and Queensland combined, 1,000,000 acres of land are being invested each year. Land covered with prickly pear is practically useless. 
We have voted money for years, yet the prickly pear is still with us, and, in fact, seems to be gaining ground. It is time that the Institute of Science and Industry realized the true position. It is a matter for serious reflection that 1,000,000 acres of land goes out of use every year in the Commonwealth because of the failure of the states and the Institute of Science and Industry to grapple with the prickly pear problem. I shall be glad to hear from the Minister that the Institute has donesomething to justify our continuing the support which in the past we have afforded it. Something has been done in connexion with the tick pest, and I learined from a speech in this chamber the otherday that progress had also been made in dealing with the blowfly pest. The prickly pear and the blowfly pests are a serious menace to the Commonwealth. The dingo pest also is still with us. I have been informed that dingoes have taken possession of the area west of the Darling to such an extent that country which formerly carried up to 15,000,000 sheep is now carrying not more than 5,000,000. I realize that other causes may also have contributed to that result. An institute properly equipped with funds, and able to increase its staff as required, should be able to place before pastoralists some scheme whereby the dingo pest could be successfully combated. The blowfly pest is much more troublesome to deal with successfully, but it should not be beyond the resources of the Institute of Science and Industry. 
 "Wire netting is the most useful check to the inroads of dingoes. 

 .- Senator Grant, like Rip Van Winkle, appears to have awakened rather late. He should know that for years the Commonwealth has been expending sums of money to combat the pests of which he has spoken. Last year the sum of £4,000 was placed on the Estimates for the purpose of investigating the prickly pear pest, and this year a similar provision will be made. It is not easy to find a remedy; the man who found it would very quickly make his fortune. For years scientists the world over have been endeavouring to find remedies, and the Government is doing what it can in that direction. The only thing for us now is to continue those investigations.  Senator Grant  spoke as if it were only a matter of money, but I point out that, even if we spent £100,000 a year, we should not necessarily find the remedy. The honorable senator spoke of the absence of information regarding the activities of the institute. I can inform him that a report covering its operations during the last four years is about to be issued. Already a report on the blowfly pest has been issued, and reports showing the progress which has been- made in connexion with both investigations have been circulated from time to time among honorable senators. I presume that  Senator Grant  has received them. The Government is aware of the serious nature of these pests, and Parliament, realizing the position, has willingly voted money in the past to enable the investigations to be continued. It is to be -hoped that some day success may be achieved in dealing with these pests. 
 I hope that  Senator Grant  will not further .pursue his devastating course. The Minister has shown that as much as can be done is being done ! I entreat  Senator Grant  not to disturb the Government in the course it is following. The Government is at present engaged in a little research, which is even more important than that of trying to find a remedy for the prickly pear pest. A remedy is now being sought for the Institute of Science and Industry itself, and I understand that that remedy will, before long, be placed before us in the form of a bill. 
I did not sayso, but the honorable senator is free to draw his own conclusions from my remarks. I have spoken in no cryptic manner. I do not suggest for one moment that by further- discussing this subject  Senator Grant  would be wasting the time of the committee, because our time is never wasted when the honorable senator speaks; but I entreat him to allow this item to pass, giving him, at the, same time, the assurance that the best that can be. done is being done. I hope that he will not offer any further objection. 
 I understand that the survey in connexion with the proposed railway from Kyogle to Brisbane, including a spiral rendered necessary because of the high levels which are encountered in .the area to be traversed by this line, and the determination to have  a  minimum grade,  has been completed, hut that provision lias been made for tunnels for a single line of railway only. 
Should T be in order if I moved that the amount be increased ? 
This bill provides for a sum of ?5.797 for the Port Augusta to Oodnadatta railway. Yesterday. I asked some questions regarding this railway, and cannot understand why the information that I sought was not provided. My first question was - 
What is the estimated cost of equipping the narrow-gauge Commonwealth line. Port Augusta to Oodnadatta, with rolling-stock" 
Surely the Government has an estimate. The' second question was - 
What amount has been expended up to the present time? 
Ir should not have taken long to ascertain that information. My third question was - 
In designing carriages, brake van's, freight wagons, and sheep and cattle vans, has a standard for wearing parts, such as boxes, draw-bars, brakes, &amp;c, been established? Surely the department should know that. 
The reply was that at some future date a return would be laid on the table of the Senate. That is unsatisfactory, as some of these matters should be discussed now. 
Surely ihe department knows whether provision for standardization has been made. 
It should be obtainable from the head office of the department. I have been informed that no provision is being made for standardizing the rolling-stock. The Senate should have been provided with the information. I sought before this bill came before us. 
.- I move- 
That the House of Representatives be requested to reduce the proposed vote " Department of Works and Railways, ?130,047 " by ?1. 
I do this for the purpose of inviting the attention of the Government to a serious matter affecting the railway extending from Grafton to South Brisbane.We have embarked on a scheme for the unification of the railway gauges of the Commonwealth at an enormous expenditure of public money, and now is the proper time to point out what I regard as a serious mistake on the part of those who designed this railway. 
The railway from Grafton to South Brisbane. 
There is an item of ?4,000 for salaries for the administrative staff. The services of some portion of that staff must be used in connexion with the construction of this railway. 
But that is the matter I wish to have discussed. 
.- I wish to bring under the attention of the Minister representing the Minister in control of repatriation a case which has recently come under my notice in South Australia. A young man who left Australia in perfect health for the front, and had a clean discharge on his return, subsequently died from heart disease, leaving a widow and two children unprovided for, except from a fund subscribed to by the people of South Australia to meet such cases. The medical officers of the Defence Department say that this  young  man's death was not due to war service, but I have made inquiries into the  matter and secured the  'Opinion  of three independent .medical men. One says that  his death was due to war service-; another says that the chances are that his death was due ito war service.; the third says that he is not sure, but that his death might have been due to war service. Despite the regulations, I think this is a case which the Government ought to take into consideration. If this young man had hot gone to the war, I feel. sure he would have been alive to-day. He must have been. in good health when he enlisted, otherwise he would not have been accepted for service. 
Provision is made in the schedule for the .most extraordinary allowance  of  £10 for pensions to persons injured and the dependants of persons who were killed by Turks at Broken Hill. 
 Tha case referred to by  Senator McHugh  will be sympathetically investigated if the honorable senator will supply me with the particulars. 
.. -  I have heard of a similar case in South Australia, the only difference being that the man concerned has not yet passed away, but is suffering badly from tuberculosis, which the authorities say was pre-existent.  In other words, they declare that he was consumptive before he went to the war. On the other hand, evidence shows that, although this man was in a lodge for a number of years before going to the war, he was never on its sick fund, and that he had not lost a day's work for four years before going to the war. That .proves, I think, that he was, prior to the war, in the enjoyment of good health. Although the departmental medical -officers say that this man's disease is not due to war service, other medical men say that it was not preexistent, and- one declares that it was caused by war service. The man cannot do much work, yet, I understand, his pension has been cut . down almost to nothing. So far those who are interesting themselves, on his behalf have been unable .to get a satisfactory reply from those who are administering war .pensions. The man's name is Rowland, and he lives at Albert Park in South Australia. 
I am pleased that honorable senators have brought up this question, because several cases similar to those they have mentioned have come under my notice within the last year or two. In one of them I have taken a very keen interest, because I knew the man concerned from boyhood.  His  name was Rockcliffe and he lived at Myalla, on the north-west coast of Tasmania. He was a very fine chap who ' went through the war very creditably, with honour to himself and advantage to the country. He returned almost as good a man as he was when he went away, and, being of an independent character, made no application to the Repatriation Department for assistance. He carried out the work in -which he was . engaged very satisfactorily for a while, but any one could see that his health was gradually breaking down, and eventually he died, leaving 'a widow and several children practically penniless, and subsisting on the charity of neighbours. The department always considered my representations on behalf of this widow very sympathetically; but at the same time pointed out that it had no power to grant any relief unless it could be shown that the man's death was directly due to war service. In this chamber eighteen months ago I urged that something should be done to ascertain whether  ot  not in many cases of this character the death or invalidity could not be attributed indirectly to war service. A man may come back, and subsequently have his health shattered, but while there may be no evidence that this is directly attributable to war service, common sense .suggests that if he had not gone to the war, but had followed his ordinary occupation during the war period, he would probably be just as robust to-day as he was prior to the war. I hope this question will be reopened, so that opportunity may be given to investigate cases of this kind. 
There were manyreturned soldiers of an independent spirit who made no application . for assistance, but were subsequently taken off. Their dependants can get no assistance, because the department was not approached at the proper time. I do not think that the neglect of the men in that respect should be visited on their widows and children. If anything in connexion with a man's war service has resulted in his death or invalidity, Australia, I am sure, will be willing to afford help in the direction I have indicated. 
The report of the royal commission appointed by the Government to inquire into the matter referred to by honorable senators who have preceded me indicates that the commissioners are quite satisfied that all these cases are being treated with the greatest possible sympathy. But a layman very often confuses sympathy with a valid claim. We should not go beyond the decision of the responsible officers in these matters unless we are prepared to say, which I am not, that everyman who went to the war is entitled to a pension at any time when his health fails him. Even those of us who were in the higher ranks, and did not have to undergo the appalling hardships of the rank and file in the trenches, have undoubtedly suffered, and had our lives shortened by our war service. But to say that we are entitled to ask the Government for a pension is going too far. 
But any regulation must have a general application. Unless the department can satisfy itself from its records that the ex-soldier's disability is due to some actual injury or sickness contracted on war service, no pension should be payable. There can be no discrimination. 
No; but there must be a pension, or some injury may be suffered. A pension is not a pauper's dole. It is very difficult to say that, because a man was healthy before he went to the war, any illness which subsequently develops is due to war service. We know the unfortunate position in which one of our own colleagues -  Senator Russell  - is placed, who, although he did not go to the war, is quite incapable of carrying on his parliamentary duties. Had he rendered ser vice abroad, it would probably be said that his present condition was due to war service, and that he should receive a pension. 
They have before them the medical records of the returned soldiers, and I am sure that the act and the regulations are administered in a most sympathetic manner. Many cases have been brought under my notice, but when one gets down to tin tacks a very different complexion is often placed upon what appears at first sight to be a deserving cause. One person made out a very plausible case to me, but on investigation I found that notwithstanding that he had not been beyond the base in Egypt, he had put in a claim for a pension on the ground that he had always enjoyed good health prior to leaving Australia. 
Unless the honorable senator can prove that the death of that person was due to war service, he must admit that the widows and children of every other deceased soldier are entitled to a pension. 
Every one must die at sometime,and it is most difficult to prove in some cases whether death was due to. war services. 
The commission concluded that the medical sheets of the men who served in the Australian Imperial Force were in some cases defective, and no doubt that fact will be borne in mind in the future. Some who returned in comparatively good health were urged by the medical authorities to submit claims to safeguard their future, but failed to do so. It is cases of that nature to which the commission is directing attention. 
.- I do not wish to suggest that every man who went to the war should . be in receipt of a pension, or that the widows and the children of deceased men should  receive assistance when they do not need it. The Departmentis sympathetically administering the act, and affords every assistance to any honorable senator who wishes to put a case before it, but it is entirely controlled by the reports of tho Medical Board. Very often the opinion of the lay mind is contrary to the findings of the board. I desire to mention one case, which I hope the Minister will follow up. It is that of Private Cox, of Latrobe-, who was wounded by shrapnel during the war, and who was in receipt of a pension. Last year his pension was reduced by one half, although at the time of the reduction it was apparent to all his friends that his condition was becoming worse. He informed the Medical Board that a bullet was still embedded in a thigh bone, but he assured me that members of the board said that such was not the case.  His  condition became very much worse, and within a few months of having his pension reduced he was taken to the Latrobe Hospital, where he was operated upon by  Dr. Walpole,  and the bullet and 9 inches of bone were removed. When I brought the matter before the department I received sympathetic treatment, and after further investigations had been made his pension was restored, but not for the whole period during which he received a lower rate. 
I know of several cases similar to those which have already been mentioned, and which I brought under the notice of the Government nearly eighteen months ago- 
I shall do as the Minister suggests. 
There is no necessity for honorable senators to bring individual cases before the Senate. If full particulars are submitted to the department investigations will be made. I have had quite a lot to do with repatriation matters during the last two years, and am satisfied that every possible care is taken to see that returned soldiers or their dependants get that to which they are entitled under the provisions of the Repatriation Act. The medical officers of the department, the commission, the state boards, and the medical advisory board give every case most sympathetic attention. In proof of this I may explain that the amount we are paying out from week to week is steadily increasing, and the number of new cases which come under the notice of the commission is also growing. 
In regard to the item " Refund of Revenue, £350,000," I should like to know the extent to which the rejection of the Lessee Tax Bill is responsible? 
It will take some considerable time before we know exactly what amount will have to be refunded because of the rejection of the Lessee Tax Bill. 
Yes, the particulars are not here, but in the Treasury. If the honorable senator moves for a return the information can be supplied. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without request; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This measure really provides for the raising of a loan of £2,000,000 to enable the Post and Telegraph Department to proceed with the construction and extension of our telegraph and telephone services. There is also an item of £86,000 in connexion with the establishment of the Federal Capital, and £64,000 for the expenses of borrowing, making a total of £2,150,000. Provision has already been made under loan acts for the current financial year for £210,000 for construction work at the Federal Capital Territory. It was anticipated that this sum would cover operations in the Territory until the commissioners were appointed under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act, and that the commissioners would thereafter make their own financial arrangements. The commissioners, however, were not able to undertake their duties until the 1st January, 1925, and it became necessary to provide a further £86,000 to cover the expenditure until that date. This sum has been provided temporarily out of revenue from the Treasurer's Advance vote, and the present appropriation is necessary to recoup the amount. At the beginning of the financial year an amount of £3,830,000 was provided for the Postal Department to meet expansion in the telephone and telegraph services, chiefly in connexion with the provision of switchboards and underground cables to give services to new subscribers. Owing to the abnormally high rate of development, however, this amount was found to be inadequate, and, in order that it might not be necessary to withhold services from prospective subscribers, an additional sum of £150,000 was authorized for the current financial year. The somewhat higher rate of expenditure than was contemplated has proved of considerable value in finding employment for numbers of men who otherwise would have been added to the ranks of the unemployed in the winter months. During the current financial year it is anticipated that from the loan moneys which have been made available, the extension of the telephone service will result in a gross increase of 57,400 services. Telephone trunk line works will also have been executed to the extent of 516 miles of new pole route, and 35,700 miles of wire; country public lines totalling 3,300 miles of new pole route, and 6,800 miles of wire ; and additional telegraph services represented by the provision of 175 miles of new pole route and 4,600 miles of wire; the total of these three items representing 3.991 miles of new pole route and 47,100 miles of wire. The total amount for telegraphs and telephones now asked for is £2,000,000. As previously stated, £150,000 of this amount will be used during the current financial year, leaving £1,850,000 for the year 1925-26. Parliament is asked to vote this amount at present, so that, pending the passing of the main Loan Act for next financial year, there may be uo break in the continuity of the work in respect of-telegraph and telephone services. 
I realize the urgency of the bill, and I have no desire to delay its passage. I understand that the estimates in connexion with certain postal works have been, exceeded, so this is, in a sense, a validating measure. We all recognize the necessity for the very best postal, telegraphic and telephonic communication in a country of vast distances like Australia, and how desirable it is to ensure employment on new works, especially at a time like the present, when there is so much unemployment in the Commonwealth. We want to be quite sure, however, that loan moneys are wisely expended on reproductive works. I believe it will be so expended in this case. I remind honorable senators that the Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page),  when Leader of the Country party in 1922, condemned the budget introduced by the then Treasurer  (Mr. Bruce).  He declared that  Mr. Bruce,  instead of trying to stem the stream of extravagance, had gone on with it. The Commonwealth debt in 1913-14 was £19.182,000, and in 1923-24 it had risen to £415,600,000. 
I am well aware of that, but T emphasize that these figures disclose that  Dr. Earle  Page, who preached economy when a member of the Country party, is not practising economy as Treasurer. In connexion with the proposed expenditure for the PostmasterGeneral's Department in 1921-22.  Dr. Earle  Page said - 
Why is the revenue of the Post Office taken from that department and allotted to other governmental activities? .... 
I desire to enter an emphatic objection to taking from the Postal Department the profits it makes and crediting them to the general revenue. 
That was  Dr. Earle  Page's attitude in 1921. What is his attitude to-day! The budget presented by that honorable gentleman as Treasurer last year showed that the expenditure for the Postal Department for the financial year was £7,997,131, and the receipts £9,653,000, or a surplus of over £1,500,000, which was paid into revenue. It is evident that  Dr. Page,  as Treasurer, is not following the course recommended by  Dr. Page  as leader of the Country party. The following details of expenditure of the Postmaster-General's Department from revenue and from loan are also interest ing : - 

<graphic href="110332192506266_22_2.jpg"></graphic>

In supporting the bill, I merely wish to say that we .should be extremely careful to see that loan money is spent on reproductive works. 
I believe the works will be reproductive, but I should like to sound a note of warning. 
I do not wish to delay the Senate, . but I should like some information from the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  upon one or two matters. I quite approve of what the Government is doing to ensure continuity of policy in the construction and maintenance of telephone lines. The Minister will Recall that, when this policy was initiated in 1921-22, the Government laid down a programme for the expenditure of £9,000,000 spread over several years. I take it that the Government is continuing with that policy. The results so far prove that it was wise to depart from the old system of constructing reproductive works out of revenue. I should like, however, to direct the attention of the Minister to the difference of £64,000 between the amount which it is proposed to spend under the schedule and the amount to be raised. The Minister, in his brief explanation, said that this sum was set apart for the expenses -of the loan. It represents 3 per cent, on the total, and I question the wisdom of spending that amount on the ordinary advertising and underwriting charges. Is it proposed to use portion of this £64,000 so that the loan may be floated at a discount? I should, feel better satisfied if I knew just what the Government proposes to do. It seems to me that £64,000 for the underwriting and advertising of a loan of a little over £2,000,000 is too much. 

 Senator FINDLEY (Victoria) 13.13]. - I have no desire to delay the bill, but I wish to make a few remarks in connexion with matters which I regard as of more or less importance. The weather lately has been seasonably cool. According to some people it has been very cold, and when I read in this morning's newspapers that there was practically no- hope of meeting in the Federal Capital next year, I thought it would bring comfort to thoSe who do not like seasonable weather, because, if they complain about the winter in Victoria, I do not know what they will fee] like in Canberra. According to some folks, the Canberra air in winter is so icy-cold that they will have to clothe themselves like Arctic explorers, while in summer it is said that it is so hot that it is difficult at times to keep cool, even when garbed in the dress that Adam wore. Why there should be this keen anxiety on the part of honorable senators to leave this city and get away to Canberra passes my comprehension. What is wrong with Victoria? We have a glorious climate in Melbourne. Within a few miles of Parliament House there is a magnificent sea frontage where honorable senators may inhale freely the lung-expanding ozone. Or, if the sea air does not agree with them, they may go to the mountain tops a few miles distant and enjoy the bracing atmosphere of the beautiful hills. We have rivers and lakes that can be reached by the most modern means of transport. We have places for the entertainment of the young and the old, the rich and the poor. We have institutions that are the admiration of the world. One of those institutions has helped very materially to place Australia on. the map. It attracts to this state tourists from all parts of the world. It is one of the best of its kind to be found anywhere. At it foregathers bipeds and quadrupeds. The latter come in their thousands by train, tram, boat, and on foot, from north, south, east, and west. I refer to Flemington, where, annually in November, a race called the Melbourne Cup is run. Honorable senators who are anxious to leave Melbourne permanently must now, according to rumour, for a year abandon all hope of doing so. 
I wish to draw attention to the PostmasterGeneral's Department, and incidentally to .refer to an expenditure that it incurs, of which I approve, but which proves the inconsistency of the Government's actions. The Cabinet professes to be an all-Australian team. Ministers say that they are keenly anxious to give every encouragement to  Australian  industries and Australian workmen. For many years it has been contended by some honorable senators, and by persons who occupy high positions in the Commonwealth, that copper wire can not be manufactured in. Australia to the satisfaction of the Government of the day; and that, even if it could be manufactured, the cost would be so great compared with the price at which it could be purchased abroad that its purchase locally could not bc justified. For years the copper wire requirements', particularly of the Postal Department, were imported. A departure has now been made from that policy, and, apparently, much that is required by the department is being- manufactured in Australia.. The cost during the last two  years  for this commodity has been more than £2.00,000 greater than would have been the ease had it been procured abroad. Yet the Government, in defence of its action in placing abroad an order for the construction of two cruisers- . 
Order! The question of the construction of cruisers is in no way connected with the bil] that is now before the Senate. 
 Then  I shall say that in another case in which there was a difference between the Australian tender and other tenders, the Government departed from the principle of encouraging local manufacture, on the score that the other .was cheaper. That is grossly inconsistent with its action in regard to copper wire. If it- is  n  good-thing to encourage Australian industries in one direction, it should be equally as good in another; 
.- I should like to bc- furnished with information regarding Canberra. There is an item of £86,000 for works, services, and acquisition of land in the Federal Capital Territory. What is the use of expending additional sums of money in- the acquisition of land there when the Government will not make available for settlement the land that it now holds? A return that was furnished to the Senate- recently showed, that, as a result of all the efforts that had so far been put forth, the total area leased in the Federal Capital Territory was only 111 acres 1 pole. There have been .'eased 151 sites for homes, and 61 business si tes the annual rental being respectively £1,775 4s. and £2,232 2s. Calculated on the basis of n 20 years' purchase, the value of the home sites would be £23,504, and of the business sites £44,642, an average of £613 an acre. I understand that tlie biggest part of the area that was purchased by the Government cost it about £4 an acre, so that it is not doing too badly. What is behind the determination of the Government not to make a greater area available on terms that will prove acceptable to prospective lessees? It is quite wrong of the Government to place an upset price on any blocks at Canberra. Within tlie city boundaries there is an area of about 64 square miles.- If, after making allowance for roadways and public buildings the remainder of the land were leased at a price approximating the value of the sites that have already been made available, instead of having to vote money for works at Canberra we should be receiving a rental of over £1,000,000 a year. I do not expect that we shall receive that amount for some time, but I urge upon the Government the advisability of making building sites available at a very much lower rectal than is at present charged. If it did that the land  would  be occupied instead of remaining in its present vacant condition. It must be remembered that every person who  goes  to Canberra adds to the value of the blocks that remain in the possession of the Government, and higher rentals must follow. I disagree entirely with the regulations under which , this land is being made available. I think that the period of re-appraisement is ' altogether too long. For the time being it has been fixed at twenty years. In the Melbourne press this morning there was a note of joy because it was alleged that it  would  be impossible for Parliament to meet at Canberra at the time appointed. According to a report made by  Mr. Butters,  Chairman  of the Commission, his first impressions were apparently wrong, mid the swamping which was alleged to have taken, place was really a miniature affair. If the works proceed, a? he anticipates they will, Canberra will be prepared for the reception of Parliament after the 1st July of next year. There is no reason why a. meeting should noi he held there on the 27th January, 1926. I can understand the readiness to remain away from Canberra that is shown by those who are under the domination of the powerful Melbourne  Age  - which, runs Melbourne and Victoria, and futilely endeavours to run Australia as well - and tlie  Argus.  Many of. those persons have not been to Canberra, and they have no. intention of going there. The land that has already been released on a freehold basis has brought an average of £613 an acre. That is altogether too high a price, and the public will not give it. Thousands of sites would have been leased had the Government not followed the foolish policy of putting upon these blocks an upset price at which the public will not purchase. 
The honorable senator will shortly be given an opportunity to discuss that aspect of the matter, because we will have to consider a document containing 179 clauses, in which there is, I believe, a proposal to make freehold some of these blocks. I protest against this vote. 
As  Senator Greene  remarked, 3 per cent, seems a high cost for raising a loan, but I understand that it is practically in the nature of a guess. The loan will probably be floated in London, and discounts may be heavy. There will also be charges for brokerage. It is hoped that the rate mli not be as high as was stated. Regarding the point raised by  Senator Findley,  one reason animating many honorable senators in their desire to move to Canberra is probably that they would then be spared the necessity of having to listen to the interminable speeches of the honorable senator on Friday afternoons, and would have the pleasure of knowing that  Senator Findley,  because he had to catch a train to Melbourne, would probably be prevented from listening -with ' rapt attention every Friday afternoon, to the loquacity of his colleague,  Senator Grant,  of Canberra, that honorable' senator, with his Henry Georgeian  proclivities, having  by  that time probably bought a block in the Federal Capital and become a resident of that city.  Senator Findley  may yet be led to repent, with tears, of the speeches which he has inflicted on honorable senators on Friday afternoons, thus causing them to risk missing their trains. So far as the question raised by  Senator Grant  is concerned, the Commonwealth Government has no' intention of depreciating the rightful values of land in Canberra by throwing the whole lot on the market at once. That ample land to meet the public demand was offered, is proved by the fact that all the blocks which were offered for sale have not yet been purchased. There are some still available for  Senator Grant  if he desires to purchase one. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
The Standing and Sessional Orders having been suspended only to permit of the bill just dealt with being passed through all its stages without delay, and the hour fixed by the sessional orders for the adjournment of the Senate having expired, it is now my duty to put the question - 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
I wish to ask the Minister for Markets and Migration the following questions, without notice : - 
Has his attention been drawn to a picture appearing in the Melbourne  Herald  of 30th June. 1925, showing a crowd of workless men inside the Sheffield Employment Exchange, on the walls of which is  placaded  the words, " Australia, work guaranteed." 
Is hia Department responsible for this placard ? 
If his Department is responsible, by whom is the work guaranteed in Australia? 
As honorable senators can see for themselves, the illustration depicts a crowd of workless men- 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. T. Givens)  . - Order ! The honorable senator in asking a question must not make a statement founded on a newspaper illustration. 
The Commonwealth Government does not bring immigrants to Australia except those who have been requisitioned by a State Government, or those who have been nominated by persons who guarantee to find employment for them on their arrival. The illustration depicts a crowd of men who happened to be in a building where the placard, " Australia, work guaranteed," appeared, but the men were applying for work from the local corporation, and not for work in Australia. 
In view of the statement that the New South "Wales Labour Government has decided to provide immediate employment for persons out of work, will the Commonwealth Government set on foot works in Victoria, not only to prevent a possible exodus to the adjoining state, but also to relieve distress generally throughout the Commonwealth 1 
Before action was taken by the New South Wales State Go-  vernment.  the Commonwealth Government had issued instructions to all departments to speed up all works for which money had been provided, in order to assist in overcoming distress through unemployment. 
Hae the attention of the Minister for Home and Territories been drawn to a statement made in another place reflecting -on the career of a responsible official in the Northern Territory? If so, does the Government contemplate instituting an inquiry into the allegations made? 
The statement referred to was brought under the notice of the Government, and a reply was immediately furnished in another place. That reply, having been followed by a further charge, a further reply is being made in another place to-day. 
With reference to the following question asked by  Senator McHugh  on the 25th June: - 
What is the estimated cost of equipping the narrow-gauge Commonwealth line, Port Augusta to Oodnadatta, with rolling-stock? 
What amount has been expended up to the present time? 
In designing carriages, brake vans, freight wagons, and sheep and cattle vans, has a standard for wearing parts such as boxes, draw bars, brakes, &amp;c, been established? 
If not, why, and who is responsible for the carrying out of this work? 
I am in a position to furnish the following replies : - 
£259,000. 
£200,000. 
3 and 4. The stock was designed by the Commonwealth Railways Department, and the parts are interchangeable, as far as is requisite, for proper railway working. 
On the 26th June  Senator Grant  asked - 
How many leases, if any, have been granted under the provisions of Ordinance No. 10 of 1914 of the Territory for the Seat of. Government relating to church lands leases? 
What are the names 'of the lessees? 
What is the total area leased? 
What is the total rental per annum ? 
Information on the subject was not available in .Melbourne at the time, but the Federal Capital Commission, which was consulted, now advises that no leases have been granted under the Church Lands Leases Ordinance. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon  notice - 
Has the Government, after considering the resolution passed by the House of Commons relative to British -women who may marry aliens retaining their nationality if they so desire, arrived at any decision thereon? If so, is such decision favorable or otherwise? 
The Government has given consideration to the resolution, and has decided that it cannot usefully initiate any action in connexion therewith. The matter is one which must be finally decided by the British Government conjointly with the Governments of those dominions which have adopted Part II. of the British Nationality and Status of Aliens Act. 
.- I move- 
That Ordinance No. 1 oE 1025, Territory for the Seat of Government, relating to the declaration of titles to land and the facilitation of its transfer, be disallowed. 
Those who take an interest in affairs, at Canberra will recollect that the Federal Capital Territory comprises about 1,000 square miles, and from time to time thf matter of the leasing of those lands for long terms, especially in the Capital city, has frequently come under review in this chamber. Section 9 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act of 1910 relates to the disposal of . Crown lands, and reads as follows : - 
No Crown lands in the Territory shall be sold or disposed of for any estate of freehold except in pursuance of some contract entered into before the commencement of this act. 
The opinion is' widespread throughout the Commonwealth that lands at Canberra are not available for settlement except on the leasehold principle, but recently the Government drew up a document styled " Ordinance No. 1 of 1925 relating to the declaration of titles to land and the facilitation of its transfer." This document is fairly comprehensive, consisting of no less than 65 closely printed pages, and comprising no less than 179 clauses, with sub-clauses and sub-headings too numerous for me to enumerate. In addition, there are no less than 21 pages of schedules, of which there are nineteen in all, printed in very small type, and containing, I have no doubt, a vast amount of information, all of which may or may not be necessary in connexion with the transfer of land at Canberra. But I particularly wish to invite the attention of the Senate to clause 17 of the ordinance, which  appears  under the heading " Part TV. - Future grants of freehold and of certain Crown leaseholds." The clause reads as follows: - 
Each  grant  of freehold and each grant for a term exceeding five years granted by or in the name of the Commonwealth after the commencement of this Ordinance shall be in duplicate, and, in addition to proper words, shall refer to a 1114D of the land. 
Both parts of the grant shall be delivered to the Registrar, who, after registration under this Ordinance, and after payment of the fee for the grant and the sura payable upon first bringing land under this Ordinance, shall deliver one part to the grantee. 
The registration shall be deemed to.be an enrolment of record of the grant, and the enrolment shall relate back to the date of the  grant,  and either part of the. grant when registered under this Ordinance shall be sufficient evidence of a duly enrolled grant of the land therein described to the person therein named on the date thereof. 
That conveys to my mind that it is intended -to dispose of some of the land in the. Federal Capital Territory under- a freehold title. 
I have not read the document from cover to cover, and I am not sure that even if I had read it once 1 should be able to appreciate thoroughlyall the pitfalls that are, no doubt, contained within its many clauses; but I should like to know from the Minister for Home and Territories  (Senator Pearce)  if my fear that freehold titles are to be granted is well founded. If se, I should like to know, in view of the section which I have read from the Seat of Government Administration Act, where these lands are situated, whether or not they are to be disposed of by public auction, and, if so, whether with or without an upset price, and I particularly should like to be informed of the area that may at present be regarded as available for freehold settlement. There is another portion of the ordinance which should not be allowed to pass unchallenged. I refer to schedule No. 18, and before reading it I wish to remind the Senate that every effort to secure a competent title to land has for many ages been resisted by governments. For a long time, even in Australia, it was most difficult for a person to secure a proper title. For the Torrens title we are indebted to a South Australian, the late  Sir Robert  Torrens, who, in the face of very strong opposition in the parliament of that state, succeeded, after a number of attempts, in placing upon the statute-book a measure known as the Torrens Transfer Act. 
I should be very glad to hear the honorable senator enlighten us on this important subject at a later stage; but, unfortunately, ever since the introduction of the Torrens Act, governments in all states of the Commonwealth have at all times placed difficulties in the way of people requiring transfers of land. This is because they resent the idea of rent-paying victims escaping from their respective landlords. In the state which I assist to represent in this chamber, if any person, wishing to . escape from the principle of landlordism, buys a home site, the State Government, in addition . to demanding transfer, registration, and other fees, pounces upon him and forces him to pay stamp duty to the amount of 15s. for every £100 paid for land. This, of course, is typical of the practice in the several states. The tax is imposed, in my opinion,- for the express purpose of punishing any person who attempts to escape from a rentcollecting landlord. From the viewpoint of a Government representing landlords, the policy may be quite right, but 1 fail to see any justification for it. I invite the attention of honorable senators to what this Government proposes to do under the provisions of the 18th schedule to the ordinance. This schedule is as f  follows  : - 

<graphic href="110332192507014_2_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="110332192507014_3_1.jpg"></graphic>

It seems to me that the Government, in addition to placing an excessive upset price on the blocks which it is vainly endeavouring to lease at Canberra, wishes to go one better than the State Governments by making it even more difficult for persons to secure the right to build homes in Canberra than it is in any of our capital cities. 
If the honorable senator takes the trouble to go to the Registrar's office in Sydney he will find that every conceivable precaution is taken by the New South Wales Government to tax the people. The regulations are set out in a document about 3 feet long and 2 feet wide containing eight or nine columns of closely printed matter, and in addition to taxes levied by the Government, the unfortunate purchaser of land has to pay certain legal fees, the amount of which I would not attempt to forecast. 
The 18th schedule, which I have just quoted, provides a fee of 17s. 6d. for the registration of a memorandum of transfer where the value of the land transferred does not exceed £50; a fee of  £1  5s. where the value exceeds £50 but does not exceed £100, and an additional 15s. for any fractional part of any additional £100 of such value. I should like to know how much extra work is involved in the case of land above the value of £50. 
It is a matter of responsibility. 
They are paid to the Treasury. 
A purchaser of land is not bound to employ a solicitor. 
 Legal fees have been regulated by the court for a much longer period than have the wages of labourers. 
 Senator Grant  has taken a mostextraordinary action. The greater portion of his speech was founded upon a misapprehension, which he could easily have cleared away. Had he asked whether this ordinance proposed to give any power to confer freehold, or whether it" was an indication of the Government'sintention to grant freehold, in the Federal/ Capital Territory, he would have received an answer in the negative. The " ordinance does not, in the slightest degree, alter the land laws in relation to the Federal Capital Territory. The Seat of Government Act expresses theland policy of the Government in regard to the Territory, and that is leasehold,, not freehold. The honorable senator hasbeen sufficiently long in the Senate toknow that when £he Federal Capitate Territory was acquired by the Commonwealth freeholds were already in existence there, having been granted by the state of which he is a distinguished' citizen. Some of those grants of" freehold were in course of acquisition;-, that is to say, the freehold could be acquired after compliance with certain conditions that at that date had not been wholly complied with. Surely the honorable senator does not ask the Senate; to say that the Commonwealth Government should violate contracts that were entered into between the State of New South Wales and individuals in that state.. The state is not now in a position tocarry out those contracts. When it acquired the Territory the Commonwealthalso took over the responsibility for seeing; that those contracts were observed. I canassure  Senator Grant  that I have the support of every honorable senator on thisside, at any rate, when I say that it is* the determination of the Government tohonour those contracts. I quite believethe honorable senator's statement that hehas not read this document, because he has quite misconceived its meaning. It is not the basis of our land policy, Tt is-.  brought into being merely for the declaration of titles of land and the facilitation of its transfer. Its object is to provide the legal machinery for the land transactions that take place under a measure in which the land policy is expressed. Whether a person acquires * a freehold or a leasehold, his title to it has to be registered. Prior to this ordinance, for the sake of convenience, that action was taken under the Real Property Act of 1900 of the State of New South Wales; the Commonwealth merely carried, on under that act. It is obviously extremely inadvisable to legalize land transactions in Commonwealth Territory under a state act, with state administration. So soon as we could conveniently do so, we took action to have Commonwealth legislation and Commonwealth administration for the transfer and acquisition of leaseholds and freeholds. Has the honorable senator any objection to that? Does he still want the Commonwealth to utilize state legislation ? Does he still want any person who purchases a leasehold in the Federal Capital Territory to be compelled to go to the state officials to have the lease registered, and to have- that done by state machinery ? If he could induce the Senate to disallow the ordinance, he would thus compel unfortunate lessees and others to avail themselves of that very legislation which he spent a considerable time in denouncing. 
I presume that if this ordinance were disallowed we should have to fall back upon the state law. 
That is not laid down in this ordinance at all, but it was dealt with last session. Honorable senators will remember that the ordinance and regulations which were before them then determined the conditions under which leases could be granted.  Senator Grant  moved a motion for the disallowance of that ordinance and the regulations made under it, but he could not get the Senate to agree with him then any more than he will get it to agree with him now. The ordinance now under notice provides the legal machinery for the registration of titles. 
Certain lands in the Federal Capital Territory are held under freehold titles. As I have already pointed out, they were ' being acquired under a conditional purchase scheme from the New South Wales Government when the Commonwealth Government took over this territory from the state. If the purchases then in process have not been completed, they will be completed at some time, and then the question will arise as to the registration of the freehold title. A contract was entered into by the New South Wales Government, in each case, that when the conditions of purchase were completed by the purchaser he would receive  a  freehold title. When the Commonwealth Government acquired the Federal ^Capital Territory, it also took over the contractual liabilities connected with it. Section 17 of this ordinance provides that when an agreement to purchase any freehold land at Canberra is completed, a freehold title shall be issued to the purchaser. 
Of course. The honorable senator has specially objected to .section 17. If that section is not accepted, we shall not be able to honour or register any freehold titles. 
Every government that has been in office since the Commonwealth acquired the Federal Capital Territory has acquired some of the freehold land in it. There is not a year passes without the transfer of some of it to the Commonwealth. 
Yes. 
It has, and it has exercised the power. When,. once a freehold is acquired, we do not part with it. The land is leased subsequently. 
No; all the freehold land within the city area has been acquired by the Government. I think that I have effectively answered most of  Senator Grant's  arguments against the ordinance. He referred at some length to the fees that have been prescribed. "When I compare these fees with those provided for similar purposes by the State of Victoria - I notice that the latter cover page and a half of the Transfer of Land Act 1915 - I am astonished at. our modesty. 
Oh, yes, there Is. On page 4687 of volume 5, " Public Works to Wrongs," of the Victorian Statutes, I find the following paragraph in the schedule of the Transfer of Land Act relating to applications to bring land under the operations of the act: - 
When the title is of any other description, Or when the application is to be registered in respect of an estate of freehold on a transmission, and the value does not exceed £150, 10s. 
When the value does not exceed £300, £1. 
When the value does not exceed £450, £1 10s. 
The amount increases to £3 when the value of the land does not exceed £1,000. It will be seen, therefore, thatthe fees increase according to the value of the land. It seems to me that there are fees, as  Senator Grant  said, " for every conceivable and inconceivable thing." The honorable senator remarked that our fees were much more liberal than those of the New South Wales Government. I have pointed out that they are much more liberal than fees for similar work in Victoria. I think, therefore, that as we have a more liberal scale than either of the two most populous states of the Commonwealth, there is not much room for objection. 
No. When citizens of this country set out to obtain wealth, under the system which has enabled  Senator Grant  to flourish so well, by acquiring the freehold or leasehold of land and taking advantage of less fortunate citizens, who have to rent the houses, I think the Government is entitled to some little revenue from them, for it must be remembered that the Government undertakes to police and protect the property that they acquire. Under all the circumstances, therefore, I feel sure that the Senate will not adopt  Senator Grant's  proposal for the cancellation of this ordinance. 
The Senate is indebted to  Senator Grant  for drawing attention to this ordinance. Section 69 seems to me to be a departure from what has been settled law in British countries for a very long time. It reads - 
No title to land adverse to or in derogation of the title of the registered proprietor shall be acquired by any length of possession by virtue of any statute of limitations relating to real estate, nor shall the title of any such registered proprietor be extinguished by the operation of such statute. 
That seems to cut diametrically across the land policy of the British Empire that has been accepted since the time of James I., and I think we are entitled to some explanation of it. As it is intended to abolish freehold land tenure in the Federal Capital Territory the matter may not be of very great moment, but the section may also apply to leasehold. Circumstances may arise in which a property has been held in one family for two or three generations, but the occupier may quite innocently have neglected to register his title. It would appear to be possible under this regulation for the original owner to reappear, say, after 50 years, and resume possession of the land simply because the occupiers omitted to register their title. 
That may be so; I have not had an opportunity to carefully examine the ordinance. I disagree with the remarks of the Minister respecting the fees chargeable for transferring land in Victoria. These have no connexion with the value of the land to be transferred. . In Victoria, if one title is lodged for transfer, a fee of 10s. is charged, and in cases where several titles are lodged at the same time an extra 2s. 6d. is payable for each title for the reason that a memorandum has to be placed on each title. The fees provided in this ordinance suggest tome that  :sn  attempt has been made to combine the ?fees chargeable under the Victorian Stamp Dirties Act, and those payable under the Transfer of Land Act. 
I cannot say, for I do not know exactly which part of the "Victorian statute the Minister quoted, [t may be that he was quoting the fees for ^bringing land under the Transfer of Land Act. A great deal of land is stil held in Victoria under the old system of conveyance. When any of that "4and is brought under the Transfer of Land Act, there is a contribution to an assurance fund, and that contribution varies according to the value of the consideration. This assurance fund is provided in order to meet claims which may be made against the Government in certain circumstances. For instance, if a title proves to be defective, the rightful owner of the land may be entitled to claim against the state for deprivation of his title. But although there is only one set fee there is, in addition, a stamp duty to be paid, which increases according  to the  increase in the value of the consideration, but not altogether in the same ratio, the scale being somewhat higher on small -sums. It seems to me that this section of the ordinance is an attempt to combine &lt;the fees payable under a Transfer of Lands Act with those which may be necessary sunder a Stamp Duty Act. There may be nothing wrong in that, so long as it is not also intended to impose a stamp duty, and thus penalize the purchaser of land &lt;bo th ways. I have had no opportunity to  go  through the sections of the ordinance in detail, but in regard to these two point3 alone I think we are indebted to  Senator Grant  for bringing the matter under our notice. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The chief amendment now proposed in the amendment of the sinking fund law is to enable all moneys received in respect of reparations under the treaty of peace with Germany to be credited to the National Debt Sinking Fund. It now seems certain, with the acceptance by Germany of the experts' plan of reparations known as the Dawes Report, that the Commonwealth may rely upon regular cash payments as ite share of reparations, and as it is the aim of the Government to reduce' as speedily as possible the large burden of war debt, it is considered that extraordinary receipts arising out of the war should be hypothecated for this purpose. It is singularly appropriate that reparation moneys received from the enemy in the late war should be applied towards extinguishing the debt created for the purposes of prosecuting that war. It will be remembered that a committee of experts was appointed to suggest a practical plan which would enable Germany to balance her budget, to stabilize her currency, and to meet her obligations to the Allies under the Treaty of Versailles. The amount of Germany's annual payments involved two leading questions: first, how much could be raised and Bet aside in Germany for the Allies, without imperilling  Germany's  financial position; and second, how much it waa possible to transfer  to  Germany's creditors abroad. Under the experts' plan, Germany will pay the following amounts during the first five years : - 

<graphic href="110332192507014_7_2.jpg"></graphic>

The annuity for 1928-9 is to become the standard payment thereafter. This standard annual payment, however, is subject to increase if the prosperity of Germany increases as measured by the prosperity index embodied in the experts' report. These amounts are payable in German currency, and it rests with the Reparations Transfer Committee to decide to what extent they can be transferred by deliveries in kind or in cash  without endangering the stability of the German currency. In some quarters it is believed that it may not prove possible, at any rate for some years, to transfer more than £50,000,000 annually. The annual payments by Germany include all treaty charges, which, in addition to reparations proper, include the costs of armies of occupation, Belgian war debt, expenses of control commissions, clearing house charges, restitution of identifiable objects, &amp;c. The amount applied to the treaty requirements, other than reparations proper, is a first charge upon the annual payments by Germany. These are allotted by the Reparations Commission, and the balance remaining is distributed to the Allies on a fixed basis, of which Great Britain's share is 22 per cent. The Commonwealth will receive 4.35 per cent. of the amount allocated to the British Empire. The annuities will be paid by Germany either in cash or deliveries in kind. During the earlier years, when deliveries in kind will predominate, the dominions will be paid their proportion of cash available, and credited with their proportion of deliveries in kind. The latter credits will be paid in later years as cash reparation receipts are available. It will be seen how difficult it is to make an estimate of the amount that will be credited to the Commonwealth in respect of reparations. However, making a reasonable allowance for, alternatively, the minimum and maximum non-reparation charges, the share of reparations to be allotted to the Commonwealth will be. - 

<graphic href="110332192507014_8_0.jpg"></graphic>

Having made a rough estimate of the amount of reparation moneys to be credited to the Commonwealth, it is quite impossible to go further and forecast in what periods and in what amounts the cash will be paid. The fact, however, remains that in March last we received from the British Government an amount of £135,475, and during the present month £122,217, these being the first payments on account of reparations. Authority is now sought to pay this amount of £257,692, and all subse quent receipts, tothe National Debt Sinking Fund. 
As the sinking fund law is being amended in this direction, the Government is taking advantage of the opportunity afforded to obtain authority to pay the following amounts into the National Debt Sinking Fund: - 
All moneys received from the states as Sinking Fund contributions in respect of loans made by the Commonwealth to the States. 
Such moneys as. the Treasurer may determine to pay out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, in addition to the regular annual contributions already provided in the Act. 
Dealing with the first of these provisions, I remind honorable senators that it has been agreed between the states and the Commonwealth that all future loans raised shall be subject to a sinking fund contribution of 10s. per cent. per annum. When the states loans are. raised by the. Commonwealth, such as migration loans and loans for ordinary developmental works, the sinking fund contributions of the states will be paid to the Commonwealth. The loan of £10,300,000 raised for the states during the current financial year, and the moneys required for the Grafton to South Brisbane railway, are subject to this arrangement; but in order to legalize the payments to the National Debt Sinking Fund of the states sinking fund payments, special provision had tobe made in the States Loan Act 1924, and in the Grafton to South Brisbane Railway Act 1924. A general provision in the Commonwealth Sinking Fund law to enable payments of this nature to be made to the National Debt Sinking Fund, will obviate the necessity to make a special! provision in each Loan Act authorizing the raising of loans for the states. 
The second provision referred to deals with payments into the sinking fund out of revenue in excess of the annual contributions provided in the act. The object of this amendment is to enable the Treasurer to pay into the National Debt Sinking Fund any surplus arising on revenue account from time to time, which it may be desired to apply to debt redemption. Last year, the surplus to the extent of £4,915,755 was applied to debt redemption. ' In the absence of the authority now being sought, this amount was made available under the provisions of the Loans Redemption and Conversion Act, and the War Gratuity Act, respectively, but it is highly desirable that such moneys should be handled by the National Debt Commissioners, and the proposed amendment of the Sinking Fund law will enable this to be done. 
No; it is for the Government of the day to determine to what extent, if any, a surplus shall be handed over, but once it is handed over it will pass out of the control of the Treasurer into that of the National Debt Commissioners. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Under the Export Guarantee Bill passed last session, £500,000 was set aside to give assistance to primary producers. It Was estimated that £29,000 would be required to get the growers of doradilla grapes out of their difficulties. After careful administration on the part of the department, the exact amount required was £22,000, but according to the Crown La.w officers  the provisions of the  Export Guarantee Act would not enable this to be paid out of the £500,000. The doradilla grape is used for the manufacture of spirit within Australia, and it is claimed that this payment does not come within the scope of the Export Guarantee Act, although the greater part of the spirit manufactured from it is exported from Australia. That, in a nutshell, is the reason for this bill. As was appropriately remarked in the other branch of the legislature by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr. Charlton),  the measure seems to be a purely technical one, amounting merely to the crossing of a " t " or dotting of an "i." I was astonished at the view taken of the act of last session by the Crown Law authorities, but in order that effect may be given to the wish of Parliament this bill is required. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
I move - 
That this bill be now read a second time. 
The measure has been brought down for the purpose of making a comparatively innocent little innovation. The provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, as to the procedure to be observed in the conduct of an election, are applied, by section 4 of the Referendum Constitution Alteration Act, to the taking of a referendum under that act. The Electoral Act was amended in 1922, in some minor respects, in relation to the procedure at the polling, and in order to bring the two acts into harmony, it is necessary to make the consequential amendments in the Referendum. Constitution Alteration Act which are set out in clauses 2, 4, 5, 6, and 7 of the bill. As the law now stands, the Chief Electoral Officer is required, under section 6a of the Referendum (Constitution Alteration) Act, to print, and post to each elector, a pamphlet containing the arguments for and/or against a proposed law, if within nine weeks after the passage of the measure through both Houses, arguments az-e forwarded to him in favour of, or against, a proposed law, authorized respectively by a majority of those members of both Houses supporting or opposing a proposed law. Under the existing provisions a very small number of members opposing a proposed law might enforce the issue  of  a pamphlet, and so involve the Government in a heavy expenditure which might be considered by a majority of members to be unwarrantable or unnecessary. This might, in addition, seriously delay the submission to the electors of a proposed law  or  even prevent the taking of a referendum in conjunction with a Senate. election or general election, where the holding of the election could not, under the electoral law, be deferred - for the period necessary to give effect to the law relating to the issue of the pamphlet. The Government, therefore, proposes to make the issue of the pamphlet permissive. If Parliament authorizes it, well and good; but it is not proposed that the pamphlet shall issue automatically. I remind honorable senators that, if it were issued unnecessarily, tremendous expense would be incurred to no good purpose. There are about  3,000,000  electors On the roll, and honorable senators can well imagine how great would bo the cost of printing the largo number of pamphlets that would be required, to say nothing of the cost of searching for the names and addresses of electors and posting the literature. In the case of an unimportant proposed amendment of the Constitution, such heavy expenditure would not be warranted. 
 I do not think that this bill is the innocent measure that the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  would lead the Senate to believe. I venture to say that in clause  3  we shall find something more than innocence. It refers to the issue of a pamphlet only by the permission of Parliament, but when we cast our minds back to  1911  and  1913,  we recall that, following upon the reference to the people of proposals for alterations to the Constitution, pamphlets were automatically distributed. Not only was their issue authorized, but the Commonwealth Electoral Officer was instructed to post them. Perhaps I may read, for the information of honorable senators, the section of the Referendum Constitution Alteration Act   1906-1919  that this bill proposes to amend. Section  6a  of the act states - 
If within nine weeks after the passage of the proposed law through both Houses there is forwarded to the Chief Electoral Officer - 
an argument in favour of the proposed law, consisting of not more than two thousand words, and authorized by a majority of those members of both Houses of the Parliament who voted for the proposed law; or 
an argument against the proposed law, consisting of not more than two thousand words, and authorized by a majority of those members of both Houses of the Parliament who voted against the proposed law, the Chief Electoral Officer shall, within two months after the expiry of those nine weeks, and not later than two weeks after the issue of the writ, cause to be printed and posted to each elector, as nearly as practicable, a pamphlet containing the arguments, together with a statement showing the textual alterations and additions proposed to be made  to  the Constitution. 
The present bill, however, proposes a substantial alteration, for it states in. clause  3- 
Section six A of the Principal Act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following sub-section :  - " (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section a pamphlet containing arguments relating to a proposed law shall not be printed and posted in accordance with this section unless, within one week after the passage of the proposed law through both Houses, those Houses decide by resolution that the pamphlet may be so printed and posted." 
This means that any party or organization, which is desirous of combating any argument introduced in connexion with a proposed alteration of the Constitution, must have its arguments ready within one week after the passage of the proposed law and submit them to this Parliament. It seems to me that that would restrict considerably the operation of the original act. I can imagine circumstances arising in which the present Government might bring down a proposal to alter a law of the Commonwealth. Certainly this Government would receive plenty of publicity so far as the press of this country is concerned, but if the Opposition were in power it would not. But, leaving that aspect of the matter out of consideration, why restrict the liberty of the people of Australia, who eventually must decide whether or not the Constitution is to be altered ? Why should the consent of Parliament be required to the issue of the pamphlet? The Minister, in his speech, has not given any valid reason why the past practice should be departed from. When the referenda of  1911  and  1913  were taken it was simply necessary for the leaders of the parties for and against the proposals to authorize the issue of the pamphlet. That, it seems to me, was a fair arrangement. I think that a lapse of nine weeks was allowed after the passage of the measure before the arguments, pro and con, were required to be presented. Now, however, it is proposed that the consent of Parliament shall be obtained before a pamphlet can be distributed or posted. 
I do not contend that it is one-sided, but no matter  how elaborate may be the debates in Parliament and the reports in the press regarding a proposed amendment of the law, I think that the same liberty as obtained previously should be allowed for amplifying the reports published in the press and the statements made in Parliament. 
I contend that the Opposition of to-day may be the Government of to-morrow, and if that change took place the present Opposition would not be helped by the press of Australia in the circulation of ins views to such an extent as would the. present Government. I do not wish to import any political significance into this debate, but I point out that the amending bill is restrictive in character. I could imagine the necessity for its introduction if anything of an expensive or detrimental character had happened during the last referenda campaigns, but, so far as I know, nothing took place to warrant the introduction of this bill. Pamphlets should be issued not as a matter of privilege, but as a right. Let us be careful what we do. It will be within the competence of a majority in any Parliament to prevent the issue of this pamphlet. We can all imagine what could happen. Suppose, for example, that after a keen fight in both Houses we had just disposed of a measure to alter the Constitution. The majority, which was responsible for forcing the alterations through Parliament, could - I do not say it would - prevent the publication and the posting of a pamphlet setting forth the views of the Opposition.  Senator Lynch  has suggested that this restriction would cut both ways. To a certain extent it would; but why not leave well alone, and allow pamphlets to be prepared and sent through the post as hitherto? The limitation of time within which a pamphlet may be prepared will not permit of arguments being prepared for or against the proposed alterations. It may be argued that" if a measure to alter the Constitutionhas been debated for three or four weeks, both sides of the argument should be well known. Possibly they would, but a vital alteration, if made at the last moment, would complicate the situation very materially. 
The Minister will admit that this provision may prevent the publication and posting of a pamphlet by the Electoral Office for the information of the electors. Why should Parliament step in? Nothing has been adduced by the Minister to prove the necessity for this course. 
No one is more in favour of public economy than I am.  Senator Lynch  would not say that it would be a real economy to deprive electors of every facility to hear arguments for or against any proposed alteration of the Constitution. I remind the honorable senator of the 1911-13 campaigns when he and I, with other members of the Labour party of that day, spoke from many platforms throughout Australia in support of proposed alterations of the Constitution. On that occasion we quoted extensively from a pamphlet containing views authorized by the party to which we belonged combating arguments authorized by the party in opposition. Surely the honorable senator will not say that money spent in the preparation and issue of that document was wasted. 
I submit that, in any proposed alteration of the Constitution, we should follow the course adopted hitherto. 
This provision is not limited to formal amendments of the Constitution. 
The clause which I quoted a few minutes ago states  clearly that Parliament shall decide whether pamphlets shall be printed and posted. 
The amendment is comprehensive, and as any proposed alteration in the Constitution may have far-reaching consequences, the procedure hitherto adopted should be followed. If this were the only alteration of the principal act for which the bill provides, I should oppose the second reading, but as the bill contains other provisions of which I approve, I shall not do so. For example, it is proposed to provide that when a mistake is made by a returning officer in connexion with the voting rights of any elector, the elector concerned shall be eligible to vote upon the signing of a declaration. Paragraph  b  of clause  6,  which seeks to amend section  20  of the principal act, also has my approval. As this is more a measure for committee, I shall not detain the Senate. In committee I shall endeavour to have proposed new sub-section  3  of section  6  deleted. 
 I intend to oppose the second reading of the bill. When the last proposed amendment of the Constitution was before us, those who were opposed to the alteration, as well as those in favour of it, had the right to set out their views at length in a pamphlet that was printed and circulated at the cost of the Commonwealth. By that means every elector was placed in possession of arguments for and against the contemplated alteration. In their wisdom the electors rejected the measure. It is well known that the Government and its supporters have the good-will of the press of Australia, with the exception of the  Labour Daily  in Sydney and a few other newspapers, so that they will not have to rely upon a printed document to be issued to the electors for the presentation of their views. At present, the Opposition is undoubtedly at a very great disadvantage. Under the principal act, which clause  3  seeks to amend, the views of both parties may be set out in a pamphlet and posted to every elector in the Commonwealth. 
Whilst something may be said for the amendment on the score of expense, we ought not to lightly amend the Constitution, which represents the considered opinion of the ablest public men and constitutional authorities in Australia. It has been amended a number of times, and several unsuccessful attempts have been made to introduce further amendments. The Government now wishes to make optional the publication and circulation of pamphlets containing the reasons for or against a proposed amendment. If the press of Australia were about equally divided in the representation of political views, it would be an entirely different matter. As we cannot be sure that the views of the Opposition will be effectively stated in the daily press of Australia, I shall not support the proposed amendment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause  2  (Application of Electoral Act). 
 Owing to the amendment of the Electoral Act, the numbering of the sections has been altered. It is therefore necessary now to alter the numbering in the bill, so that it will refer to the proper sections in the Electoral Act. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause  3 - 
Section 6a of the principal act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following subsection :  - 
Notwithstanding anything contained in this section a pamphlet containing arguments relating to a proposed law shall not be printed and posted in accordance with this section unless, within one week after the passage of the proposed law through both Houses, those Houses decide by resolution that the pamphlet may beso printed and posted. 
 I intend to oppose  this  clause, because it will restrict the opportunity for electors to get full information about a proposed alteration of the Constitution. As  Senator Grant  has pointed out, we should not amend the Constitution lightly, and we should give reasons for or against any alterations. Before the Constitution of Australia can be altered a majority of the electors in  a majority of the states must agree to the proposal. I can foresee a very big amendment cropping up, such as one to give to the Commonwealth Parliament greater powers in relation to trade and commerce. As a matter of fact, such a proposal should have been placed before the people within the last two or three years had promises been kept that were made by certain honorable gentlemen who had the guidance of the destinies of Australia. I refer particularly to the promise that was made by theRight Honorable W. M. Hughes when he was Prime Minister, that within a certain time the people of Australia would be called upon to say whether ornot they favoured an alteration of the Constitution in relation to industrial matters. Despite the publication of  Hansard,  despite the influence of the press, despite all the machinery that the different parties control, no reason has been advanced by the Minister, on the advice of his responsible officers, for departing from the existing system. Had a sound reason been given I should have been found in agreement with the proposal. We know that to-day nearly every citizen in Australia purchases a newspaper. The average man or woman would rather go without his or her breakfast than without a daily newspaper. That newspaper takes into the home its opinion of any proposal. Why, then, should any barrier be placed in the way of taking to every citizen, with the authority of the Commonwealth Electoral Officer, statements for and against any proposed alteration of the Constitution, so that when an elector enters the ballot-box he or she can say, " I have had every assistance to enable me to decide whether or not the Constitution should be altered"? That assistance has been forthcoming in the past. The procedure may be costly, but all elections and all referenda proposals that are placed before the people are costly. Why should the Government, for the sake of saving a few pounds, deny to every citizen the right to obtain all the information available ? I say advisedly that when the citizens of Australia are asked to decide whether the Constitution should or should not be altered they are called upon to decide a much more important matter than is involved in the election of members of this Parliament. If this is an attempt . at economy by an alleged economy government, it is a very sorry exhibition. I shall content myself with voting against the clause, and I hope that the majority of honorable senators will support me. 
At one time, when submitting proposed amendments to an act, the Government was good enough to furnish honorable senators with a document showing how the act would read when amended, and setting out the sections that it was proposed to omit. That procedure has not been followed with this bill. The Minister  (Senator Pearce)  has assured honorable senators that the bill is not a very important one. He said that all it proposed was to leave it to Parliament to decide whether the pamphlet should issue. This clause is the crux of the bill, and if it is agreed to any government, which necessarily must have a majority in the Parliament, will be at liberty to say whether a document setting forth the reasons for and against any proposed amendment shall or shall not be printed. That should not be countenanced by the committee. The provision which this clause amends was inserted in the act only after a great deal of consideration had been given to it. The documents that were printed when the last referendum was held were extensively read. They placed before the electors in the most forcible and concise way that the best brains on each side could devise, the arguments forand against the proposed alteration. I do not want that privilege to be withdrawn from the electors. Every honorable senator knows that it is quite impossible to have a notice inserted in the daily press unless it happens to coincide with the opinions of the proprietors of the different journals. I have no doubt that should the Government propose to alter the Constitution the Labour party would be confronted with that difficulty. It is quite true that a certain amount of expense is involved, but that should not greatly concern us. The length of the document could be curtailed or extended at the option of the Government of the day. Parliament would be acting wisely if it allowed the present provision to remain. 
SenatorLYNCH (Western Australia)  clause should encounter any opposition, especially from such a practical-minded honorable senator as  Senator Grant.  I understand that it will result in a saving of something like £15,000 in connexion with the preparation of the pamphlets alone, quite apart from the cost of posting and distribution. 
 Is that all? 
That, interjection does not surprise me, remembering as I do that during the discussion on the action of the Government in letting abroad a contract for the construction of two cruisers the honorable senator dramatically exclaimed, "What is a million?" If by some means the whole of the taxpayers could be combined in the person of the honorable senator, I imagine that he would think twice before he would agree to the expenditure of much less than £15,000. He knows as well as I do that during the last 24 years many amendments of the Constitution have been made to which both parties agreed. He will admit that the position to-day is that pamphlets setting forth the arguments for and against any proposed alteration of the Constitution must be forwarded to every elector. This amendment merely proposes to vest iri Parliament the right to say whether a proposed amendment is sufficiently important to warrant the issuing of these pamphlets. What is the purpose of this opposition from honorable senators? Is it dictated by a desire to oppose anything that emanates from the Government? Whether it be in the Treasury or in the hands of a private individual, it is not for  Senator Grant  to say that money should be spent needlessly and uselessly. This proposal does not take from Parliament any right that it should possess. The Government, unlike  Senator Grant,  wishes to save the taxpayers' money. It is its duty to do so.  Senator Grant  asked. "What is £1,000,000?" The spending of £15,000 is nothing to him, so long as it is other people's money. Another feature of this matter appeals strongly to me. Honorable senators opposite suggest that the Government, in making this proposal, is actuated by the knowledge, that they say it has, that the capitalistic press will support it. My opinion of this; latter-day Labour party is that it desires", by hook or by crook, to get the capitalistic press against it. It regards such opposition as one of the chief weapons in its armoury. If acceptance of this clause will ensure the support of the capitalistic press for honorable) senators on this side of the chamber, the Labour party, on their own showing, and with due regard to their own practice, should vote for it. 
If any reliance can be placed upon the line of reasoning honorable senators opposite usually adopt, they should be doing their utmost to put the capitalistic press in opposition to them. The fact of the matter is, however, that they are trying to occupy two positions at once. They are trying to square the circle, which is mathematically impossible. I am surprised to learn that they attribute to the capitalistic press so much influence in .the moulding of public opinion. 
And when the time., came to vote on that motion a good many . honorable senators opposite, who spoke in favour of it, were absent. When they _ were wanted, like the comrades of . the boy who stood on the burning;, deck, they were not to be found-.  I submit that the clause indicates., that the Government desires, to take a step, . in the right direction. It wishes  t&amp;  ,say.e the taxpayers' money. Apparently  Senator Grant  ' desires to spend £15,000, or more even when a purely formal matter like dotting an " i " or the crossing of a  " t"  in the Constitution requires 'to "be done. ' 
 I could understand  Senator Lynch  lecturing honorable senators on this side of the chamber for their opposition to this clause if the question at issue was a purely formal amendment of the Constitution. It is quite evident that the honorable senator's eagerness to attack his one-time friends on this side of the committee has prevented him from reading the bill. I can find nothing whatever in it about amendments of a purely formal nature. The bill deals with any proposed law to alter the Constitution. The Minister himself did not indicate what would be the cost of issuing a pamphlet to the electors, but his seventh- day adventist colleague took it upon himself to lecture his erstwhile friends of what he called the latter-day Labour party upon the need for economy. It ill becomes this ". johnny come lately," of the Nationalist party, who might also be known as the " Paddy go early " of the Labour party, to lecture us. He took the first opportunity to leave us. 
I cannot picture  Senator Lynch  as either a latter-day or an early-day saint. He spoke about a formal amendment of the Constitution; but we do not alter the Constitution for fun. The honorable senator also referred to the capitalistic press. I should like him to understand that we believe in freedom of the press just as much as we believe in freedom of speech. We do not wish to control the press, or to instruct it as to whom it shall report or whom it shall not report. It ought to know its own business better than  Senator Lynch  or any one else. We have no proof that the issuing of a pamphlet to the electors in connexion with any proposed amendment of the Constitution would cost £15,000. If  Senator Lynch  is really concerned about economy in government, he is on the wrong side of the committee. He has never supported a Ministry which was so regardless of economy as is the one which he is supporting to-day. 
.- Instead of tending to minimize the ex- penditure in connexion with any proposed alteration of the Constitution, I think this clause will tend to increase it. It has to be remembered that what one honorable senator might consider to be formal another might regard as important. If we enact that no pamphlet shall be circulated respecting any proposed amendment of the Constitution unless a resolution agreeing to that course has been passed by both Houses of this Parliament, we may cause a great deal of expense to the country, for when any amendment of the 
Constitution is proposed we shall have to discuss, probably for a good while, whether or not a pamphlet shall be issued on the subject. 
But many proposals may be made upon which members may differ considerably.  Senator Lynch  well knows that when the last amendments to our Constitution were proposed the keenest interest was manifested in the matter. If it had been necessary on that occasion to have a motion passed by both Houses of this Parliament before a pamphlet on the proposals was issued for the edification of the electors, a very long discussion would undoubtedly have occurred. The government of the day, however, prepared its case, and the Opposition prepared its case, and a pamphlet was issued. ' For some reason best known to himself, the amendments which  Senator Lynch  then favoured are not now acceptable to him. I do not think that the Government has introduced this proposal merely in the interest of economy. It has apparently occurred to the Government, or to those in charge of the Commonwealth Electoral Department, that expense would be saved to the country if any proposed referendum on an amendment of the Constitution could be held on the same day as an election. I do not think that either the Government or the officers of the Electoral Department had any thoughts as to the possible importance or otherwise of such proposed amendments. As to the cost of issuing a pamphlet to the electors, I agree with  Senator Grant.  An expenditure of £10,000 or £15,000 in such a way, in order that the electors might be thoroughly informed on what was proposed, would be thoroughly justified. No one suggests that in the case of purely formal amendments it would be necessary to state the case for and against in pamphlet form. Surely  Senator Lynch  is sane enough to agree with me that thousands of pounds should not be expended in sending out the case for and against to every elector in the Commonwealth, when merely formal amendments of the Constitution are to be submitted to a referendum. That would be a waste of money. 
It has not to be done. A big expenditure is incurred only when important amendments are proposed. I do not understand why the Government is anxious to push this bill through in its present form, but if one of the objects is to economize by holding a referendum and an election on the same day money will be saved. If the measure has any other purpose I do not clearly understand what it is, and I hope the Leader of the Senate will satisfy those who are in doubt about the matter. 
 These amendments are consequential on amendments previously made in the Electoral Act, and are bringing the Referendum (Constitution Alteration) Act into conformity with that act. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 7 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
 (By leave.)  - I wish to make a personal explanation. I paired with  Senator Guthrie  under the impression that the pair was to last for an hour. I regret that, in the division just taken, my misunderstanding of the position led me to vote in  Senator Guthrie's  absence. 
 I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
During the war, under the War Precautions Act, the Government had the power to register aliens. It was a precautionary measure enabling the Administration to keep track of aliens throughout the Commonwealth, and during the troublous postwar period it was thought desirable to pass an act providing for the continuance of that power as part of the Commonwealth legislation. Accordingly, the Aliens Registration Act 1920 was passed. That act was administered through the state police, and considerable difficulty arose between the Commonwealth and the states as to the use of the state police for this purpose, the states desiring to charge for the service rendered to the Commonwealth. Eventually some of the states refused to allow their police to be employed for the purpose of registering aliens, and by. 1922 the Aliens Registration Act had practically become a dead letter. Last year the Government thought it advisable to repeal it, but on further consideration came to the conclusion that it would be well not to repeal it, but to leave it on the statutebook in a state of suspension, ' to be brought into operation by proclamation if at any time required. If events were likely to lead to war, and there were in the community numbers of aliens who might become disaffected because of their connexion with another country with which relations had become strained, any country as an act of self-protection would obtain the addresses of these aliens and keep track of them. Therefore, the Government has thought it desirable to keep this precautionary measure onthe statute-book, and have it brought into operation whenever the circumstances warrant it. The object of this bill is not to repeal the Aliens Registration Act, but to allow it to remain on the statute-book in a state of suspended animation, so that it may be brought into force by proclamation in the circumstances I have . set out. 
That matter would be determined by the administration of the day. It might be administered by the Commonwealth police, or the better plan might be to utilize the services of the state police, as was done on the last occasion. There are no Commonwealth police. 
No; from the throwing of a bomb at Serajevo. 
.- In moving the second reading of this bill,  Senator Pearce  casually declared that at one time the Government thought the Aliens Registration Act should be repealed, but that on further consideration it came to the conclusion that it should be simply suspended. The Minister also declared that at one tune the act was administered by the state police. Now he thinks .that, lest an emergency such as a national crisis should arise, the act should not be repealed, but merely held in suspension, so that its provisions might be re-imposed, at the whim of the Government of the day, or in other words by a proclamation. This bill stipulates that " the operation of the Aliens Registration Act 1920, is hereby suspended until a date to be fixed by proclamation, on which date the suspension shall cease." I think that the Government should have adhered to its original intention, which was to repeal the act altogether. I decidedly object to having anything in the nature of precautionary war legislation hanging like the sword of Damocles over the Parliament or the people. Undoubtedly the bill is a relic of the regulations framed under the War Precautions Act. It was neces-' sary during the war to enforce the registration of aliens, and in 1920 the Aliens Registration Act was passed for the purpose of continuing the supervision exercised during the war. I did not happen to be a member of this chamber in that year, but on perusing the debates I find that by' clause 13 of the bill as introduced all hotelkeepers were required to keep a register, and enter in it the name and nationality of every alien, the date of arrival of the steamer by "which the person concerned reached the Commonwealth, and his place of abode or destination. . There were other obnoxious provisions in the bill brought down at that time, but Parliament deleted them, and it would have been a good job if the measure had been rejected. I have already admitted that legislation of this character is necessary in times of emergency or national crises, but no such conditions  exist at pre- 
Gent.  In the event of such an occurrence, who has the greater right to impose legislation of this character - Ministers or the Parliament of the nation ? God forbid that Australia should be faced with another crisis such as that which the world experienced between 1914 and 1918', but, if it should be, would it not be the duty of the Government of the day, should Parliament be in recess, to summon it immediately and request it to pass the legislation necessary for the protection of the people ? 
I have had painful experience of the results of granting too much power to any body of men, even under war precautions legislation. I have also had painful experience, as a citizen of Australia, .of a Government clinging to the last shred of power granted to it under war precautions legislation. 
The Government may desire to suspend the act because of the great influx of aliens into Australia at the present time, but I should like to see the measure repealed. I presume that I shall be in order in referring to the subject of passports. 
Nobody can leave Australia unless a passport has been obtained. 
I rose simply to point out the necessity to repeal the Alien Registration Act rather than merely to suspend it. I shall take an opportunity in committee of testing the feelings of honorable senators on the subject. One becomes accustomed to many objectionable restrictions, and I know that the Government does not wish to give up the power it has enjoyed under the war precautions legislation; but I object to giving such great power as that conferred by .this act to any Ministry in times ' of peace. Ministers should be directly under the control of Parliament. 
I cannot understand why the Government has introduced a bill of this nature at the present juncture. Some time ago we were informed by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  that the Government had decided to repeal the act, and there was every justification for its repeal. But what has happened in the meantime to induce the Government to alter its opinion? There is no war in progress, and there is no serious talk of war. No national emergency has arisen, and therefore one asks himself the reason for the desire to suspend rather than to repeal this act. Honorable senators who are familiar with its provisions know how drastic they are. Although they might have been justified in a time of war, they are quite unnecessary now. Is it because there is industrial unrest in the Commonwealth that the Government refuses to repeal the act? Is it that Ministers desire all the powers in peace time that they possessed during the war years? If that be the Government's motive, the Opposition should make a strong protest. There is a proper way in which to deal with every situation. If the Government thinks it will strengthen its hands by keeping the act on the statute-book - I have in mind a matter that has been seriously discussed in another places - and if the Government wishes to be buttressed, in a time of peace, with war-time powers, to enable it to deal with trade unionism and what it stands for, I think that every unionist - which includes, I believe, every member on this side of the chamber--will do all he can to prevent the Government from effecting its purpose. 
What is the definition of an alien? 
Many reputable men who have come to Australia, such as citizens of the United States of America, fall within that, category. 
Many citizens who have engaged in business in the Commonwealth and have led good and useful lives amongst us are, strictly speaking, aliens. According to this bill they will still be treated as such. If there was not some motive, why did not the Government bring in a bill to repeal the principal act ? There ie no warrant for it to-day. Nothing conduces more to unrest, industrial and otherwise, than the retention of legislative measures which, while justified in war time, are no longer needed. 
I had not, and I am now protesting against the action of the Government in not seeking to repeal the act, instead of suspending it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In Committee : 

Clause  1  agreed to. 
Clause  2 - 
The operation of the Aliens Registration Act 1920 is hereby suspended until a date to be fixed by proclamation, on which date the suspension shall cease. 
 I move - 
That the words " operation of the " be left out. 
If this be agreed to I shall move the omission of all the words after " hereby," and the insertion of the word " repealed." My purpose is to secure the repeal of the act, not to leave it in a state of suspended  animation. I do not wish the Government to have power to re-enact the measure at its own sweet will.  Senator Findley  has pointed out that it may be re-enacted by proclamation to deal, not with a war emergency at all, but with an industrial emergency. In any circumstances Parliament, not the Governor-General in Council, should be the final arbiter. 
In the debate on the second reading of the bill, the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  admitted that since 1922 the act had been a dead letter, and also that the Government had considered the repeal of the law, but had altered its mind. The suspension of the act may be one way out of the difficulty, but if the measure has become a dead letter, it should be repealed. I am not sure that there is not a good deal to be said for the attitude of those who hold that all legislative measures should be enacted for a fixed period, at the end of which, failing re-enactment, they should lapse. We have had experience of such laws. The Daylight Saving Bill, a war measure, became inoperative and was abolished. Nothing more is now heard about daylight saving. The Aliens Registration Act, which was passed in 1920, appears to incorporate about a dozen Statutory Rules promulgated under the War Precautions Act. Those rules dealt very drastically with alien residents in Australia over the age of sixteen years. Though the rules may have been highly desirable during the war, they have since become a dead letter, and therefore should not continue to encumber our statute-books. I am at a loss to understand the motive actuating the Government, but I recall what James Russell Lowell had to say of a certain brand of politician - 
A marciful Providunce fashioned us holler, O' purpose thet we might our principles swaller. 
As the need for the act has passed, it should be repealed, instead of being suspended. What caused the Government to change its mind? Is it because aliens are arriving in Australia in such numbers ? If that is the reason, the Minister should say so, because I understand there is ample power under other acts to deal with aliens. Instead of suspending the Aliens Registration Act so that the Government may, if it thinks fit, bring it into operation again by proclamation at short notice we should repeal it. 
Believing that the most pressing need of Tasmania at the present time is stability in her shipping services, I move - 
That the Government forthwith give an assurance to the people of Tasmania in particular, and the people of the Commonwealth in general, that there will be continuity of transport service for passengers between Tasmania and the mainland; and in the event of any strike, lock-out, or discontinuance of this service from any cause whatsoever, the Government will immediately take the necessary action to maintain, without interruption, this vital service. 
For many years the position of Tasmania in relation to her transport arrangements has been tragic. She has hardly known when at a moment's notice she might receive an intimation that her shipping communication had been dislocated, her people restricted in their  journeyings  to the mainland, her visitors compelled to remain, her food supplies interfered with, and her mail services disjointed. Why has Tasmania been so constantly upon the edge of a precipice in so far as her means of communication with the mainland are concerned? . Why has there been this paralysis of so vital a service? The answer is that certain men have entered into a conspiracy against society. I ask honorable senators to carry their minds back to the last dislocation of the shipping services between Tasmania and the mainland. In November, 1924, trouble occurred in New South Wales between the Waterside Workers Federation and the Returned Soldiers' Labour Bureau. An overtime strike was called, nominally designed to continue their seven-year-old struggle. It extended, as things do. The Czars of the Waterside Workers Federation usurped the power and authority belonging to the people in regard to the communication and cargo handling facilities of the nation. Conference after conference took place, but without avail. We saw them approaching the Arbitration Court or officials of the Arbitration Court on the one hand, and, on the other, the governments of the states that were interested. No agreement was arrived at; the turmoil continued; and for reasons that varied during the days that followed ship after ship was declared black. At one time a chartered vessel of the Commonwealth Line was held up in order to demonstrate that chartered vessels were banned from Australian coasts. Then, in order to meet the wishes of certain folk who desired to get off the New Zealand articles, trouble was started on a ship that sailed under those articles-. 
Systematically these conspirators were using every class of employee in the maritime service in order to complicate the position. With malignant ingenuity stewards are called out so that a ship may be prevented from sailing.  Donkeymen  are told that they must refuse steam so that the overtime strike may be continued. Then in order that mercantile operations may be still further hampered, the order is given that under no circumstances shall any person be engaged for waterfront work in New South Wales except at the Communist Hall, Sydney. Men were invited to act in a perverse manner on board ship so that the officers would be compelled to dismiss one of their number, and thus furnish an excuse for the remainder of the crew to down tools and leave the vessel. I could quote many other examples of what has been happening of recent years in the shipping industry along our coasts. In all this sordid business Tasmania has had no say, but her mails, her people, her visitors, and her food supplies have been seriously interfered with. 
Let me describe, briefly, the position of Tasmania early this year. In the first week of January all the ships that usually travel to her coasts were held up. When one realizes that Tasmania is an island state, and that her only means of communication with the mainland is by sea, one cannot be surprised that her isolation, in consequence of this shipping hold-up, was attended by many tragic happenings'. Let me quote the case of a young girl who had been nursing her aged mother on the mainland. On account of the heavy work which the nursing entailed, it became necessary for the girl to recuperate her strength, and she went to Tasmania. She had very little money, and for that reason, as well as on account of the state of her aged mother's health, she was able to remain away for only a few days. It quite staggered her, therefore, when as she was about to return, she learned that shipping communication between Tasmania and the mainland had ceased. The blow became doubly severe when, on the very day that the boats ceased running, she received a telegram informing her that her mother's health was worse. She made desperate efforts to find some means to return to the mainland, but, of course, could not discover any, and her trouble was intensified when, while she was still seeking for a way out of her difficulty, she learned that her mother was sinking fast. That is an example that could be multiplied many hundreds of times. Many working people who go from the mainland to Tasmania for a holiday must return to their homes within a stipulated period in order to resume their occupations. They realize perfectly well that unless they do their means of livelihood -will be lost. Frequently these people have wives and children, or others, dependent upon them, and it is nothing short of a calamity to them when, by one fell stroke, they are cut off from their employment by a shipping hold-up. 
On the 11th January the Commonwealth Government decided to send the  Largs Bay  from Sydney to Tasmania to take to their homes on the mainland the people who were stranded, but the moment an attempt was made to get the boat away from the wharf in Sydney the crew left it. The Government then sent the  Hobson's Bay  to the mouth of the Tamar. While this great liner could remain quiescent there awaiting her passengers, the small boats which had to be used to transport them to her side had anything but smooth  journeyings.  The people they had to carry were not, for the most part, good sailors, and I need not describe to the Senate the pitiable condition of some of the women and children when they reached the  Hobson's Bay.  There was a heaVy ocean swell to be negotiated, seasickness was general, and only those who were agile could get from the ferry boats to the liner with any degree of ease. Fortunately, there were no accidents in transporting the passengers, but there were numerous narrow escapes. 
Conditions such as these have prevailed in Tasmania for the last six years. I might naturally be asked the reason. My reply is that it is due entirely to the impotent jealousy of a few people in this Commonwealth who are determined to bring down the level of the great majority of our people to that of the muddy minority. This kind of thing must be stopped. The citizens of the Commonwealth have decided in their minds that they must have in power a Government that is prepared to say to these people, " Stop ! " The people demand a Government that will stand for the observance of law and order. Some people speak glibly about liberty when what they want is not liberty, but licence. May I be permitted to  quote  the following from Maine's  Popular Government,  page 64: - 
If a democracy were to allow a portion of the multitude of which it consists to set some law at defiance which it happens to dislike, it would be guilty of a crime which hardly any other virtue would redeem, and which, century on century, might fail to repair. 
If that great jurist be right, if his statement can. be taken as the experience of the years, it is obvious that when there arises a state of affairs such as has arisen here, the Government should act decisively, swiftly, and sternly. It is unthinkable that it should remain for any length of time possible for the people of Tasmania to have the whole of their business, their mails, and their affairs generally, held up because of the wickedness of one or two irresponsible men. It is not a multitude that is behind these constant dislocations of the shipping services. The  Nairana,  for instance, has been held up at the Launceston wharf because two of her men have  detemined  to go out on a " jollification," and she has had to remain there until these men have seen fit to return. Am I asking too much when I request the Government to take such action as will make a continuance of these tactics impossible? The people of Tasmania heard with a great deal of pleasure that the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  had said to a deputation that waited upon him on Tuesday that he would not interfere with the course of the law; that the law must be obeyed and order preserved; and that the seamen must keep within the law if they desired to escape the penalties of its disobedience. I hope that that attitude will be fully maintained. When we have a body of persons disseminating poisonous illusions, which have no possibility of conscious reality - the destruction of all arts, the annihilation of everything that is an incentive to progress, it is time for the Government to step in and say, " This must cease."  When you have a combination of. men like Walsh and Johannsen,  alias  Johnson, or whatever his name may be - apparently he himself forgot what his name was before he was 21 years of age - who are as Czars among a certain class of workers - when we have men who are usurping the powers of the state in an endeavour to sovietize industry, under the- guise of nationalizing the various activities of the people, it is high time for the Government to intervene. The activities of these individuals will mean the nationalization, not of industry, but of the misery of the people. I should like to read extracts  from  a  Labour newspaper, reprinted  in  the Hobart  Mercury  of 12th January, 1925,which define their attitude. " Between the capitalist and the working class economically there is nothing in common . It was sometimes necessary to compromise with capitalism, but the leaders oftheworking class should tell their comrades that that was done in the interests  of  immediate production, andus a step to the complete overthrow of capitalism." This statement was mode in an article published recently in the West Australian  Worker  by  Mr. T.  Walsh, Federal  President  of the Australian Seamen's Onion. " To achieve socialization the working class must be organized ona class basis -so strongly organizedand so ' class conscious 'that they regarded themselves as members ofa class whoso function it was to govern in place of the capitalistic class, continued the article. To ensuresuccess the working class would have to be internationally united. That was why patriotic Labour politicians, with their ' anti- G ermanism,' ' anti-Americanism.''or WhiteAustralianism ' were enemies of the working class. If industry was  to  be socialized the working class must be served by the Army, the Navy, and the air service. He did not say that Labour would not compromise with capitalism and save bloodshed, but in order to compromise the working class must be supreme. To tell the working class that the present platform and methods of the Labour party were sufficient to enable themselves to be lifted out of servitude was to mislead them.  It  should be told that it could not achieve the emancipation of its members until they were organized industrially and politically. " There was a school of Labour politicians which considered arbitration a substitute for the class struggle. Arbitration could not overcome differences between employers and workers, because the workers wanted the ownership and control of industry. The Arbitration Court, however, was a useful instrument for the adjustment of certain differences. It was capable of being used in the immediate interests of the worker, and, like other unions, the Seamen's Union went into court as  the  cheapest and easiest means of adjustment. " When a dispute comes within the scope of the court,"  Mr. Walsh  continued, " the Seamen's Union finds it useful to force the shipowners into the court. Some disputes, however, are not capable of adjustment by the court, andon my advice the seamen fought the maritime strike of 1919 outside the court with great success . . " 1 will have no hesitation in advising members of the Seamen's Union again to seek redress outside the court immediately the atmosphere is favorable . . . " Now you have my idea of arbitration and how I view it from a class stand-point." 
The Government must surely discriminate between a proper and an improper use of collective power. It is very easy to conceive of a situation arising in Australia in which there will be one big union with enormous voting power, and I am firmly convinced that if the Government does not regulateunionism, unionism will regulate the state. Imagine what would happen if the aliens, that we so often talk about here, came in and controlled the unions ! I know of one place where there are persons of  22  different nationalities at work, and they are all members of a union. If that happened generally, Australia would be in specific danger. The Government regulates our companies and our corporations in the interests of the community, and I say that it should regulate unionism. Something should be done immediately in this direction. The Government should act quickly and strongly. We have had, in Russia, an illustration of the improper use of power. In that country the power of the Czar was broken by the magic power of the people's will. Power then passed from theCzar to the proletariat; but there was no reduction in the violation of the liberty and freedom of the subject. Lenin and Trotskywere imperialistic social bodies whether covered with the jewels of the Romanoffs or wearing only tatters and rags. In Russia, under this regime, the working man has had everything that he owned taken from him. If he was so ill-advised as to buy a government war bond, he belonged to the bourgeoise, but if he owned a bicycle or a Ford motor car, or a little home, he was a plutocrat. We are coming to that position. An oligarchy to-day controls various unions, and is doing everything it can to destroy industry. I say to our honorable friends opposite, who belong to unions, that unless they take care, these forces, which are overwhelming certain sections of the working class in Australia, will destroy not only Australian industry, but also Australian trade unionism. They are forcing the members along the pathway towards a sovietist revolutionary state, with, as I said before, its nationalization of misery. The Commonwealth in general, and Tasmania in particular, is suffering from an organization which is a menacing  imperium in imperio  to Australian trade unionism. I believe there should he freedom to organize, freedom to deal collectively,  security from arbitrary discharge, security against strikes, and free interchange of opinions, but when a compact is made, to be subject to the approval of the community, and that approval is given, it should be enforcible by the community. That may be a new basis of law and order, but it is a strong, solid, democratic basis, and one which I think we shall eventually be obliged to adopt. What is the function of government? It may be classified, I think, under three headings : national stability, national strength, and national progress. National stability surely means the elimination of misdirected statical forces. National strength is largely due to efficient administration. If that be so, the government that is charged with the administration of the law must see that it is carried out, and act swiftly and sternly when it finds conspirators working against the good of society. We have had some very striking examples of conspirators acting against the good of society in connexion with the many shipping strikes that have occurred during the last six years, and which have seriously affected Tasmania, and furnished satisfactory examples of the urgent necessity for governmental interference. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Is it the intention of the Government to resubmit for the consideration of the Senate the reciprocal tariff arrangement with Canada 1 If so, in view of the fact that the Senate agreed to the arrangement on the assumption that it was not permitted to make any alterations in the schedule, will the resubmission be in a form which will enable the Senate to consider the items on their merits, and, if necessary, alter them as the Canadian Parliament has done? 
-I think it is intended to submit the arrangement by way of a resolution, but in order that I may furnish the honorable senator with a, complete reply, I ask him to place his question on the notice-paper. 
On the 25th June  Senator Grant  asked,  amongst  other questions relating to the Mandated Territory of New Guinea - 
What  is the  total  amount  of education tax for the last financial year? 
I am now in a position to advise the honorable senator that the total amount of education tax collected during the last financial year was £5,092. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Were any tenders received  in  connexion with the contemplated sale  of  the Commonwealth Line of Steamers? 
Ifso, how many? 
Who were the tenderers? 
Will the Minister lay on the table of the Senate the papers relating to these tenders, showing the tenders received, or advise the Senate as to the conditions and nature of the tenders? 
The Prime Minister has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's questions: - 
No tenders were received in connexion with the contemplated sale of the Commonwealth Government Line of Steamers. One offer was submitted  to  negotiate for the purchase of portion of the  fleet, with an  expression of willingness  to  discuss the carrying out  of  the conditions required by the Government. The Government made it perfectly clear that it would not accept that offer, and has not pursued the negotiations' any further. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon  notice - 
Are there any employees of the Commonwealth Public Service with children under fourteen years of age who are not receiving child endowment? 
If so, why are they not receiving it? 
If there are any who are not receiving it, are they permanent or temporary employee's? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow :  -  1 and 2. Employees whose wages are not governed by Public Service Arbitration awards, but are fixed by industrial tribunals on the basis of the basic wage for a family consisting of wife and three children are not eligible under the Public Service Regulations for payment of child endowment. 
Most of the employees who are ineligible for child endowment are engaged temporarily, and are exempt from the provisions of the Public Service Act. A very small number of permanent officers who are paid wages board rates are ineligible for child endowment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to a paragraph appearing in the  Age  newspaper of 1st July, with reference to the Spahlinger treatment for consumption? 
In view of the favorable report of the medical committee appointed by the British Government concerning this treatment, will the Government have further inquiries made into the matter, with  a  view to having the Spahlinger treatment brought to Australia? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow :  - 
Yes. 
Inquiries are being made of the British Government as to the reliability of the report. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to submit during this session legislation amending the Repatriation Act, to give effect to the recommendations of the Royal Commission on the " Assessment of War Service Disabilities "? 
If so, when? 
The recommendations contained in the report of the Royal Commission on the Assessment of War Service Disabilities are still under consideration by the Government, and it is proposed at an early date to make a full statement to the Senate on the subject. 
I oppose the third reading of this bill, because of certain statements made by  Senator Pearce  in moving the second reading yesterday. The Minister declared that at one time the Government considered it desirable to repeal the Aliens Registration Act because it was a dead-letter. I realize that it is a deadletter. In fact, it is worse than that; it is a dead limb on the tree of legislation. Why allow it to remain? Why not cut it off immediately and prevent it from continuing to encumber our tree of legislation? It is obnoxious. On the admission of the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  himself it is useless. The honorable senator said the only thing that could be said on behalf of the Ministry - that the Government of the day will have the power to re-impose this obnoxious legislation at its' own sweet will. No circumstances exist in Australia to-day to warrant the continuation of the act. It will remain on the statutebook even though its operation be suspended. Should any circumstances necessitate its again being made operative, it ought to be the business of Parliament, and not of the Government of the day, to restore it. I said yesterday, and I repeat to-day, that this legislation is a relic of the days of strife and turmoil - the days when the world was a shambles. Those days, thank God, do not now exist. The Senate should reject the motion for the third reading of the bill, and thus compel the Government to cut away this dead limb from the tree of legislation, and leave to the Parliament of Australia the power to restore it if necessary. 
(3.19].- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Whatever may be the views of honorable senators regarding the merits of this measure, I think they will all agree that it deals with a very important subject. Whatever attitude is assumed by the Parliament towards the proposal, it will in some form or other affect the future history of a very important portion of Australia. Before dealing with the bill itself, it will, I think, be interesting to review a little of the history of. not only this part of Australia, but also of self-government in Australia, because both have a very important bearing upon the proposal. It is interesting to notethat it was in September, 1824, just a little over 100 years ago, that the first British settlement was established on the north coast of Australia, namely, at Port Dundas, Melville Island, . 40 miles from Darwin, by Captain Bremner, of H.M.S.  Tamar.  This action was taken as the result of representations to the British Government by the then government of New South Wales that, in view of rumours of proposed annexation by a foreign power, it was advisable to establish a British settlement on the unoccupied coast of northern Australia. The reason then given for British settlement in North Australia is significant. In 1827 the whole of the Northern Territory was attached to New South Wales. In 1863 it was taken over by South Australia, and designated the Northern Territory. It remained under the control of that state until the 1st January, 1911, when it was transferred to the Common wealth, together with the whole of its debts. In 1865 the first government resident appointed by the South Australian Government landed at Darwin, and fixed upon that town as the capital of the Northern Territory. 
Under the Northern Territory Administration Act of 1910 the GovernorGeneral has power to appoint an administrator, who is charged with the duty of administering the government of the Northern Territory on behalf of the Commonwealth, in accordance with the tenor of his commission and such instructions as are from time to time given him by the Minister for Home and Territories. All South Australian laws in force prior to the 1st January, 1911, continue to apply to the Northern Territory unless otherwise altered or repealed by Commonwealth laws. The administrator may authorize expenditure on the maintenance of public services and general administration up to the whole of the amount appropriated by Parliament. It is his duty to prepare the annual programme of works in connexion with the estimates to be submitted to Parliament. Upon the ascertainment of the amount provided, the Minister considers the proposals submitted, and decides on the programme to be adopted. Any departure from this programme must receive the sanction of the Minister, but small" balances unexpended on approved works may be utilized on works up to £100 without reference to the Minister. All requests for works or services are transmitted by the administrator to the Commonwealth  Works  Director, Darwin, whose duty it is to furnish estimates of cost and. to carry out the works when furnished with requisitions therefor by the Administrator. Although, under the Northern Territory Ordinance of 1911, the Administrator is charged with the duty of administering the government of the Northern Territory on behalf of the Commonwealth, it may be mentioned that several departments are entirely removed from the control or supervision of the Administrator. For example, the railways arecontrolled by the Railways Commissioner), Melbourne; Customs by the Collector of Customs, Brisbane; postal matters by the  Deputy  PostmasterGeneral at Adelaide; public works by the Works and Railways Department, Melbourne; taxation. by the Taxation 
Department in Melbourne; and quarantine by the. Quarantine departmental officer at Brisbane. It will be seen, therefore, that), with the exception of New South Wales, Western Australia and Tasmania, every state of the Commonwealth is in some respects associated with the administration of the Northern Territory under the present system. The land board, which was appointed under and in pursuance of section 7 of the Northern Territory Crown Lands Ordinance passed last year, is - under thecontrolof the Minister of State for the time being controlling the Northern Territory -charged with the general administration of. Crown lands in the Territory. Under the Encouragement of Primary Production Ordinance of 1924, the three members of the Land Board are appointed as the Primary Producers Board, which, out of moneys votedby Parliament,expends such sums as itdeems necessary for the purpose of granting assistance to producers. Thisis a brief sketch of the somewhat cumbersome machinery for the administration of the Northern Territory. 
No, unless we create a miniature staff within the Home and Territories Department for the effective control of each of thevarious branches mentioned. An examination of the finances of the Northern Territory, at the 30th June, 1924, discloses the following situation: - 
Total indebtedness taken over from South Australia, £3,931,086. 
Accumulated deficit to the 30th June, 1924, £2,899,476. 
Expenditure on new works, £395,197. 
Capital expenditure on railways, £565,622. 
Total public debt at 30th June, 1924, £7,791,381. 
Deficit (administration and interest on loans) for 1923-4, £215,635. 
Expenditure outof revenue for new works fin 1923-4, £17,163. 
Total deficit for 1923-4,£232,798. 
The area of the Northern Territory is 523,620 squaremiles. The European population is2,240,andthe coloured population, excluding aborigines, 1,018, making a total of 3,258 Europeans and coloured people. 
There was up till last year, when, apparently, the tide turned, and there was a slight increase. If honorable senators will examine the map displayed on the walls of the Senate chamber, and take the area north of the 20th parallel of south latitude, they will see that the territory may be divided into two districts. The northern district, which we may call North Australia, comprises an area of 287,220 square miles, and the southern district, which we may call Central Australia, has an area of 236,400 square miles. Let me interpolate at this stage that in the consideration of this problem the Government has come to the conclusion that the present geographical boundaries are arbitrary, and were notdetermined upon the basis of convenience for satisfactory development. 
No. The figures I have given refer to the population of the whole of the Northern Territory. The geographical boundaries, as I : have stated, are notconvenient, and are not calculated to ensure development. This is true not only of the boundaries of the Northern Territory, but also of the boundaries of the contiguous states. If, in later years, after the difficulties of development had been understood, the boundaries had had to he defined, it is obvious that they would have been very different, from what they are to-day. Since the Government is now proposing a scheme which may lead to the establishment of a new state orstates, it may be possible, by the exercise of forethought bythe Commonwealth and some of the state authorities, toavoid that blunder in the future, and so determine the boundaries of anynew stateor states thatregard will be had to geographical and developmental considerations rather than mere arbitrary marks on a map. 
Ifhonorable senators will turn their attention to thesmaller map on my lefthand side,they will see two areas defined, one in Western Australia and one in Queensland.Geographical boundaries havebeen discarded,seeing that these areas obviously have interests in common with the Northern Territory. If honorable senators look at the area marked in Westtern Australia, to the west of the Northern Territory, they will see that its interests are identical with those of the western portion of the Northern Territory itself. It is largely a pastoral proposition, and even to-day, with the inadequate means of transport available, cattle from the Northern Territory find their way to the meatworks at Wyndham, and occasionally live cattle for transport to - the East are sent from the northeastern part of Western Australia to Darwin for shipment. It is obvious, therefore, that the interests of the people in that portion of Western Australia and the western portion of the Northern Territory are inter-related. 
Yes. Furthermore, when one glances at the eastern portion of the Northern Territory, one sees that the Barkly Tablelands country has interests in common with the adjoining area in Queensland. Portions of the latter area have been partially developed by the state of Queensland. Ports have been established in the Gulf of Carpentaria, but there are other gulf ports capable of development which are in the Northern Territory itself. . One would think it should be our aim to allow trade to flow in its natural channels rather than cause produce to be hauled over a railway for thousands of miles, if we could get it to a good port a comparatively few miles distant. It will be realized at ;once  that  that portion of Queensland has a community of interest with the north-eastern portion of the Northern Territory. Therefore, the Government has already communicated with the Governments of Western Australia and Queensland, suggesting that they should consider the advisability of placing the areas which have been marked in the way I have described under the control of the commission provided for by the bill, for the purposes of development. It is not contended for a moment that these areas should be handed over to the Commonwealth, but that the states mentioned should join with the Commonwealth in the work of development by bringing these areas within the control of the commission. 
Not &lt;at all, because sovereignty over those areas would remain with the states of Western Australia and Queensland respectively. 
Yes, and they are now under consideration. 
No; they are now considering it, and their reply is awaited. If this step were taken, the approximate area of the Territory which would come under the control of the commission, south of the 20th parallel of south latitude, would be 236,400 square miles, and the area north of that parallel would be 287,220 square miles. The portion I nave marked on the map in Western Australia comprises an area of 120,500 square miles, and the portion marked as being in Queensland has an area of 38,000 square miles. If those two areas were brought within the scope of this bill for the purposes of development, there would be under the commission's control in Northern Australia an area of 445,720 square miles. These estimates of areas are approximate. * 
It will be admitted, I think, that that is a big proposition for any commission to tackle. Northern Australia is in a similar position to-day to that occupied by the various states in the early days of their settlement. This fact was brought home forcibly to me the other evening when reading the very interesting notes published in the Melbourne  Herald  and reprinted from their own news columns of 50 years ago. In one of the extracts it was stated that an urgent appeal had been made to the Parliamentary members for Victoria to bring forward a policy for the construction of harbour works and railways. It was stated that it was better to pay interest to the English capitalists than allow the colony and trade of Victoria to languish and decay. When that paragraph was written the now thriving and prosperous state of Victoria was facing a situation identical with that now confronting us in the north of Australia. For nearly 100' years the Northern Territory was dependent on New South Wales and South Australia, and during that period its settlement and development were necessarily subordinated to the more urgent needs of those states. The Territory has been under the control of the Commonwealth, for a little more than fourteen years, and considerable criticism has been directed at the Commonwealth authorities, it being alleged that during the period of Commonwealth control little or no progress has been made. But,  Mr. President,  I invite honorable senators' attention to the fact that during half of that period, at any rate, all the energies of Australia were concentrated upon the prosecution of the war or upon those serious problems which demanded our close attention during the years immediately following the war period.. 
All the states of Australia were started on the road to prosperity by considerable grants of money or guarantees by the British Government. When we refer to the gratitude due by us to Great Britain the fact is too often lost sight of that in their infant days practically every colony received substantial financial assistance of that character which helped it to take its first steps in progress and development. 
In many cases no payment of interest occurred since direct grants were made. The Commonwealth Parliament should, and does, occupy in relation to the north of Australia the game position of responsibility as, and even a closer and greater responsibility than, did the Mother Country towards the colonies in their early days. Therefore, we cannot, and must not, shirk the duty, especially difficult though it be, that confronts us now in north Australia. This problem is different from that which confronted any of the colonies in the early days of their development, for in all the states the best, lands were easiest of access and less difficult to develop because they lay near the coast. Their poorer country lies in the hinterland, which is exactly the reverse of the position in the Northern Territory, where the best country, and that most capable of profitable development, is in the hinterland. The poorer land, and that less capable of successful development, is adjacent to the coast. Every Australian who has read the history of this country knows that it will be more difficult, and more costly, to develop much of this territory because of the different conditions. There is, therefore, every reason why a special effort should be made by the Commonwealth Government to improve the position. 
Ye3, to all the settled portions. The north coast can only be developed and populated by internal development, and Darwin, owing to its position and its fine harbour, will eventually become a port of great importance. Wyndham in the north-west of Western Australia will also become a port of equal prominence. If we. consider these two ports not merely in relation to the hinterland, but in relation to the countries overseas which they may serve, we .see what an important part they will play in populating and developing the north. It is quite feasible that development during the ensuing years will be such that Darwin, in the Northern Territory, and Wyndham, in Western Australia, will eventually be the points of arrival and departure for great airships which will be maintaining communication with European countries. Darwin has already been the point of arrival for aeroplanes flying' to Australia, which should be an indication of the exceptional position which Darwin and Wyndham will eventually occupy in relation to other parts of Northern Australia. When we consider the enormous populations of Asia, and the position these two ports occupy in regard to them, we realize even more the importance attaching to the development of this country. 
The difficulties of administration under the present system cannot be realized by any one who has not actually experienced them, either from the point of view of attempting to administer the Territory from Melbourne, or from the point of view of those who have suffered from the administration in the Northern Territory itself. Considerable delays are experienced, especially in regard to the construction of works and development generally when reference has to be made to Melbourne. That cannot be avoided, as the seat of government is in Melbourne, and the difficulties would be the same if the seat of government were -at Canberra". While we have the present system of government, .reference must be made to the responsible Minister and .to the responsible department in Melbourne. Let us consider some of the 'difficulties in relation to communication. There is only one mail a month from Melbourne to Darwin, and it .is not possible to receive a reply to a communication sent from Melbourne to Darwin under seven weeks. In addition to this disability considerable inconvenience, delay, and expense is incurred in the transmission of telegrams between Melbourne and the Territory. There is also great delay in the administration of Central Australia owing to the remoteness of Alice Springs from Darwin. When we remember that the affairs of the people living in the southern portion of the Northern Territory are -administered from Darwin, we can see that their disadvantages -are multiplied. Whilst the people at Darwin suffer  owing  'to :the fact  that  they are controlled from Melbourne, those at Alice Springs are even more remote from the point of view -of time. The distance between Darwin and Alice Springs is approximately 930 miles, and communication is maintained by a mail service consisting of .pack horses, which runs every six weeks. 'Communication between Alice Springs and Oodnadatta, which is at the head of the railway, is maintained by a fortnightly service of camel teams. The distance -from Darwin .to the South Australian -border is 1,167 .miles. A communication from Melbourne to .Alice .Springs, directed through the Administrator at Darwin - assuming there was a convenient mail connexion - would take nearly three months to reach its destination, and it would be double that time before a reply could be received. 
In view of all these circumstances, it .will readily be seen that it is impossible to -attempt to administer from Darwin that part of the Northern Territory . situated south of the 20th parallel of .latitude. It is .therefore proposed to arrange .for -the administration to be carried out .direct .from Melbourne through an administrative officer at Alice 'Springs. At present, there is no medical officer for a 'distance ' of 1,100 miles .south of Darwin, and it is proposed that the administrative officer at Alice Springs shall be a medical officer, who will then be able to serve in a dual capacity. As it is proposed to connect Alice "Springs with the southern railway system, it is hoped that the construction of that railway will lead to considerable pastoral and mining development in the southern portion of the Territory. This will, I think, justify the separation of -the administration of the southern from the northern portion of the Territory. 
There is another difficulty that 'honorable senators probably do not realize, but one with which everybody who has had anything to do -with the administration of the Territory is fully conversant. The isolation -and tropical conditions of the Territory ma'ke it difficult to carry on developmental work, or to construct new buildings or undertake other works under our present -financial system. The Estimates for 'the Northern 'Territory are erabodied in the 'Federal Estimates, and when an attempt is made to expend the money voted the authorities are circumscribed to a degree owing to the periods during which the rain falls. As honorable senators are aware, there is a wet and a dry season in the Territory, and in the wet season, owing to the absence of railway facilities, transportation absolutely ceases. Our financial year ends in June, and we have no authority to spend money beyond that date" until further Supply is granted. As the wet season occurs in the middle of the financial year, there is a certain period during which no money can be spent on public works in the Territory. Although we vote money for twelve .months, there are only two broken periods, each of three months, in which expenditure can be incurred on public works. Similar conditions do not apply in any other part of the Commonwealth.; elsewhere public works can be carried on during the whole year. It is therefore necessary to provide a different financial system to meet the conditions in the north. These difficulties will .be eliminated under the Government's proposals, because the commission to be appointed .will , have control -of its own funds, and will be 'able 'to carry out -an uninterrupted  policy  of development on the lines approved 'by  Parliament.  I referred just &gt;now- to 'the revenue of tie Northern Territory. When we look at the annual deficit we must make allowance for the fact that the Customs duties on imported stimulants, narcotics, drapery, foodstuffs, hardware, &amp;c, consumed in the Northern Territory are collected in the states, from which, they are transhipped to Darwin. The Territory itself does not produce these goods. The consumers there actually pay the duties on them, but the Territory is not credited with the revenue so received. It is, as it were, a concealed revenue which can only be roughly estimated at about £30,000 a year.. 
In this bill,, and in all future references to the Territory, it is proposed to drop the term Northern Territory and speak of it as Northern Australia. The bill itself is the Northern Australia Bill. It is proposed to divide the Territory into two areas,, to 'be known as Northern Australia and Central Australia. Looking back over the history of the Commonwealth of Australia, it is interesting to note that, in 1845, when  Mr. Gladstone  was Secretary of State for the Colonies, all the territory of New South Wales north of the 26th parallel of latitude was  constituted a new colony, and designated North Australia. However, in the following year, Ear,l Grey, who succeeded 
  Mr. Gladstone,  abandoned that idea, and in 1859 the colony of Queensland was proclaimed, practically embracing all the territory which had previously been designated, under  Mr. Gladstone's  proposal, as North Australia. 
The first reference to any form of local government in Australia is contained in a dispatch by Governor Phillip, dated the 17th July, 1790. Governor Phillip recommended that free settlers should be sent out to Australia so that, from time to time, local magistrates could be appointed from them. In 1800 Governor Hunter recommended the appointment of an advisory council. Those were the first proposals made in Australia which had any reference to a form of local government. The first constitution was granted in 1823 to the colony of New South Wales. It provided for a nominee legislative council of fifteen members, eight being  official  nominees and seven unofficial.' New South Wales at that time included the territory now embraced by the states of Victoria and Queensland, and its population was about 4.0,000 people. 
Some persons may contend that the time has arrived when we should hand over the Northern- Territory to the people living- there to govern as they think- fit, but, when&gt; it is - realized that the whole European population of the 500,000- square miles in the Territory is only a little over 2,000 people, I think that even the most earnest advocate of local self-government will not contend that such a small number could possibly govern themselves. As a matter of fact,, the Territory could not get on without financial assistance from the Commonwealth, and, until sufficientpopulation can be established there, it is quite obvious that for some years to come the control, whether it be ' designated government or not, must be exercised by the Commonwealth. 
That you must have population first? 
This bill is the means by which we hope to get population in the 'north. But there are many reasons why it is necessary, apart altogether from a self-governing standpoint, to get population there. There is, for instance, the consideration of defence. The north of Australia has been referred to' as the Achilles' heel of the Commonwealth. It is. the least populated, and therefore the most difficult to defend. For that reason we must try to get population there. We cannot have effective local, government without population. I doubt if- we can have substantial development without it. The difficulties of finance alone are insuperable. Unless we can get population we cannot have development, except at a heavy cost to the Commonwealth. 
There is a diversity of opinion- as to the possibility of development. On this point it is interesting to peruse many of the reports submitted from time to time by people who have visited the north. One man who has gone there at a certain time of the year will describe it as a paradise. Another man traversing the same country at another time of the year will write a description of it which reminds one- of descriptions of the Sahara. The truth lies between the two. It is neither a paradise nor a desert. Those who know the pastoral country of Western Australia and western Queensland, and have seen  the  Northern Territory, declare that it is capable of tremendous pastoral development, and that it can carry large numbers of sheep and cattle. There are many opinions as to its agricultural possibilities. The portion which will most likely be devoted to agriculture lies within the tropics. It is not tableland country like the pastoral' areas, which are undoubtedly suitable for rearing a healthy, virile, white race. It is lowlying country, and the products which can be grown there will come into competition with products raised by coloured labour in other countries. There are, however, some things - such as cotton, peanuts, and tobacco - which even under White Australia conditions, can be grown profitably. If the cost of living can be reduced, and if people can get their goods at reasonable prices, I see no reason why cotton cultivation should not flourish in the north as well as it does in Queensland. 
The northern portion, bounded by the Gulf of Carpentaria on the one side and the Arafura Sea on the other contains patches of country suitable for agriculture. I would not say that more than one-third of the area is suitable for that purpose, but even one-third is a large area to be developed. 
That is not the way to test the question. The fact remains that families are being brought up in the Territory. When I was in Darwin I met people of the second generation born there, and they looked as healthy and as well developed as any I have seen in other parts of the Commonwealth. 
There are great possibilities of mineral development in various portions of the Territory, but unless we can reduce the cost of production the mineral deposits cannot be developed. At Maranboy there is a splendid deposit of tin. If it were in Tasmania or one of the southern states hundreds of thousands of pounds of capital would be available for its development, but because the Northern Territory has a bad name, and because of the high cost of production there, capital is not available for the development of this deposit. The backward state of the Territory is attributable to the difficulties of communication, and the absence of railways, roads, water, and telegraph lines. It is a reflection on the Commonwealth that in the fourteen years it has had control of the Territory it has not built a mile of telegraph line there. The railway has only been extended from Pine Creek to Katherine River. T do not suppose that £200,000 has been spent on roads. There has certainly been some money spent, and well spent, on water supplies, but it is a comparatively small amount considering the vast extent of territory to be developed. How much development would there be in the western district of Queensland if there were no railways, water supply, or telegraph lines? These facilities are essential for the development of any district. Under present conditions the cost of transport in the Territory is enormous. Until the Commonwealth Government entered into a recent contract for a steamer service to Darwin the freight on goods shipped from the southern states was very high. It has now been reduced to something reasonable. The cost of handling goods at the ports has always been high. The railway freights have  also been high. Roads have been almost non-existent. All these things have contributed to the high cost of living, and have ' deterred the settlement of the Territory. What is the Government aiming at? The development in connexion with the Murray waters scheme, I think, points the way out of the difficulty facing the Commonwealth. 
Some years ago all the states came gradually to recognize the value of the Murray valley.  Mr. Elwood  Mead had been preaching the doctrine of irrigation, and telling -the people of Australia what could be done by irrigation and by settling the land adjacent to the river Murray. Several conferences were held between the State Governments of Victoria, New South Wales, and South Australia, but nothing came of them except the passing of many resolutions. Eventually the three states mentioned and the Commonwealth came together and constituted a commission whose task it was to submit a scheme for the locking of the Murray waters. That commission drew up a scheme of development which was placed before the various states concerned and also the Commonwealth. It proposed to have a series of locks and weirs on the river to permit of its navigation, and of the irrigation of the land. The states concerned and the Commonwealth adopted the scheme, which embraced a ten-years' programme, and it was decided that these partners should be jointly responsible for the carrying out of the work. Although in each state, as well as in the Commonwealth, Parliaments and Governments have almost entirely changed since then, there has been no departure from the scheme. Despite changes of Government it has been carried on steadily towards the ultimate objective. What has happened in regard to the Murray valley shows us how we can handle the problem of the north. The Government is asking for the appointment of a development commission to raise money and carry out work for the development of the north. 
The bill commences on a date to be fixed by proclamation, thus enabling the two systems of administration to be harmonized. When one dies out the other will take its place. The Northern Territory is to be divided into two districts. The position of administrator is to be abolished, and a developmental commission of three persons is to he appointed. Provision is made for a Government resident and an advisory council in each district. The carrying out of developmental work is tobe removed from the department in Melbourne to a commission in North Australia. The commission is to he appointed for five years. Its powers are set out in clause 17, which reads as follows: - 
Subject to this act, the powers of the commission shall extend to the following matters in relation to the development of so much of the Territory as is situated north of the 20th parallel of south latitude (in this act referred to as "The prescribed part of the Territory"): 
The maintenance and operation of railways ; 
The construction and maintenance of roads; 
The erection of telegraph and telephone lines; 
Water boring and conservation; 
Such other matters in relation to the development of the Territory as are specified in any regulation made under this act. 
The Governor-General may by proclamation declare that, as regards any power conferred on the commission by this act, the power shall not extend to the whole of the prescribed part of the Territory, but only to a specified portion thereof, or may, byproclamation, exclude any portion of the prescribed part of the Territory from the scope of any power conferred on the commission. 
The object of that is to exclude, for instance, Darwin, if it is thought necessary to do so. 
Not in relation to the carrying out of works. I desire to direct particular attention to sub-clause 4, because it is very important. It reads - 
In additionto the powers specified in subsection (1) of this section, the powers of the commission shall include the administration throughout the Territory of Crown lands in accordance with Ordinances made or to be made in pursuance of the Northern Territory (Administration) Act 1910. 
Sub-clause 5 reads - 
In the exercise of its powers under this act the commission shall utilize as far as possible the services of officers of the Commonwealth Public Service. 
The effect of sub-clause 4 is that the commission will supersede the Land Board and administer, under the Government, the land legislation of the Northern Territory. It will, therefore, have the developmental works and the lands under its authority. 
SenatorFindley. - What will become of the Land Board ? 
The Land Board will cease to function. As in the case of the Murray Waters Commission, this commission will prepare schemes relating to development. It is intended that it shall, at the outset, prepare two sets of schemes, one outlining its ultimate aim during a period of five years, and the other setting forth the first year's programme directed towards that end. The Government and Parliament will, therefore, have placed before them not only the whole of the works upon which the commission proposes to embark, but also those which it intends to undertake during the first year. Parliament will then be asked to vote the money necessary for carrying out those works. 
That isincluded. Railways,however, must first be authorizedby Actof Parliament. This will be theprocedure : In its proposals the commission will state therail ways that it considers should be built. It may be that inthe early stages perhapsnone, perhaps only one or two, willbe proposed. It would be extremely inadvisable, and very costly, for the commission to at once set about getting together a railway staff for construction purposes. It is, therefore, proposed that when any railway project has received the endorsement of the Government, the procedure set out in the Railway Commissioner's Act shall, with one exception, be followed; that is to say, the Railway Commissioner will then act as the agent of the commission in preparing the necessary data, determining routes, and carrying out the surveys required. That report will be placed before the Government, which will refer it to the commission in the sameway that to-day similar reports are referred to the Public Works Committee. At the present time the Public Works Committee reports whether, in its opinion, any work that has been referred to it is expedient. In this case the commission will say whether, in its opinion, any specified work is expedient. 
Yes. When the Government has received a report from the commission giving its opinion, a bill will be prepared, and the Railway Commissioner will be instructed to collect all the datathat is required trader the provisions of the Railways Act, such as plans, estimates of the cost of resuming land and constructing bridges, and so on. That data, with the opinion of the commission, will be placed before Parliament. A bill will be introduced, and before the work can proceed Parliament will have to authorize the construction of the railway. A similar procedure is provided for in regard to works estimated to cost over £25,000 ; they also will have to be authorized by Parliament, which will have the report of the commission stating whether it considers that the work is expedient. If the work will cost over £25,000, it will have to be constructed through the Department of Works and Railways, as is doneat present. That department will either call for tenders orcarry out the work by day labour. 
SenatorLynch. - Will the commission have exclusive power in regard to works that are estimated to cost less than £25,000 ? 
Yes. It may also haveexclusivepower overthe moreexpensiveworks;Parliamentwillhave to determine that when it isacquainted with the natureof the work. 
I should like to say aword or two with regard to the reason for the supersession of the Public Works Committee by the commission. It is obvious that if all these works had to be referred to the Public Works Committee considerable delay would take place. A committee sitting in Melbourne would not be competent without visiting the spot to decide upon the advisability of carrying out work in the Northern Territory. When works affecting the Northern Territory have been referred to the Public Works Committee in the past, some at least of the members of that committee have had to visit the Territory before a report could be furnished. I have already referred to the time that a letter takes to reach the Northern Territory from Melbourne. A comparatively recent visit paid to the Northern Territory by the Public Works Committee necessitated the circumnavigation of Australia. The reference was to wharf construction. The committee took evidence in Perth and at the ports on the north-west coast of Western Australia. It then proceeded to Darwin, where it sat for some time, and subsequently came down the eastern coast of Australia, touching at ports in Queensland and NewSouth Wales. It is obvious that if every work aiming at the development ofNorthern Australia had to be referred to that committee, and the committee had on every occasion to visit the Northern Territory, very few members would be able to spare the time that would be involved. If development is to take place in the Northern Territory, these inquirieswill have to be very much more frequent than they have been. If it is provided that the Public Works Committee shall inquire into any proposed work in the Northern Territory, theresult will be that decisions will be arrived at without visits being paid to the Territory, unless members of the committee spend the greater part of the year in touring round the north of Australia. The only alternative would be to have two Public Works 
Committees - one for the north and one for the south of Australia. 
I do not say that the committee is behind with its work, but I know that it is working full time in order to cope with the great pressure that is being put upon it. As the construction work in the Federal Capital Territory proceeds, that committee will have a still greater amount of work placed upon it. In these circumstances the Government thought that it would be better for Parliament to be advised by the people who would have the responsibility of carrying out the work, who were on the spot, and who, because of their knowledge of the local conditions, would, be able to furnish information that would warrant Parliament in saying whether the work should or should not be carried out. That decision is not intended to reflect in the least upon the capabilities or the qualifications of the members of the Public Works Committee. The Government acknowledges to the full the very valuable assistance that has been rendered to it and to Parliament by the many useful reports which that committee has from time to time furnished on matters that have been submitted to it. 
The bill makes provision for a fund to be called the North Australia Commission Fund. The commission will have 
Certain borrowing powers, similar to those of the Federal Capital Commission. It will be in a position to borrow, with the consent of the Treasurer and under the conditions laid down by him. There is also a provision that the commission must present its annual estimates in the same way that the Federal Capital Commission submits its estimates to the Minister. Before any expenditure apart from the Estimates can be incurred it will require the approval of the Minister and the Treasurer. The approval of Parliament will, of course, need to be obtained when the Estimates are placed before it. When the money has been made available, however, the commission will have full power over its expenditure. It will not be necessary for it to obtain the approval of the Minister on individual items. 
I have already said that the bill provides for portions of the territories of contiguous states to be placed under the commission, with the consent of those states. The terms and conditions of such transfer will be a matter for mutual agreement. This is a permissive power, that can be availed of if the states so desire. 
No. It is only within the last day or two that the bill has been in print. The Government is desirous that, at the earliest possible moment, local government should be established in northern Australia. It believes that to be the best form of government. It hopes that the population of Northern Australia will so increase that before many years the inhabitants there will have full power over the government of their own country. The purpose of the bill is to make a commencement towards that end. 
Certain services will not be dealt with by the commission, such as the administration of law and justice, police, education, mines, fisheries, aborigines, and many minor services. It is proposed that those shall be dealt with by Government Residents, one in Darwin and another at Alice Springs.In each case the Government Resident will have a council of. advice, consisting of two elected and two nominated members. The whole of the district will vote as one, the election being on the parliamentary franchise. Members will be elected for three years, and in addition to having the power to advise on questions of administration they will have also the power to advise on the framing of ordinances, the amending of existing ordinances, and the making of recommendations as to the repeal of ordinances. There is in that provision the germ of local self-government. As the population increases and. the people show that they are capable of and willing to take upon themselves the responsibility of government the structure can be built up until full local selfgovernment obtains in both of those districts. 
Oh, yes. 
There is no provision regarding remuneration. 
No. The commission will not have any power of taxation. 
The councils will have certain powers regarding the levying of rates. The income tax, the land tax, and the customs duties will not be dealt with by the commission. The object that the Government has in view is to establish a population in northern Australia in order to bring about its selfgovernment. There is no other purpose in view . The Government says quite frankly that it is aiming at the establishment of one or two new states. It believes that these territories are suitable for the creation of new states. Their geographical situation is obviously a convenience in that respect. Of course, the creation of these new states will have to come in the future; but I am confident that it will be possible, if the same development takes place there that has taken place in the western districts of Queensland. In those districts one finds towns such as Longreach, with a population of probably 10,000 people, living absolutely on pastoral development. There is no cultivation withinhundreds of miles of the town. 
I differ from the honorable senator. I came through the Longreach country and also over the BarklyTablelands, and saw in the Tablelands exactly the same grasses that are making wealthy the pastoralists around Longreach. 
There are two essential points of difference between the two areas. In the first place, artesian water is available at Longreach, whereas in the Barkly Tablelands the water is sub-artesian. It has to be pumped to the surface, and therefore it is more costly. The Barkly Tablelands is well supplied with sub-artesianwater at from 200 feet to 400 feet. One of the difficulties there is the absence of timber, which has to be transported very many miles, mostly by camel teams. I was informed that it costsfrom £8 to £12 a week to keep the pumps going. I may point out, however, that Darwin is contiguous to Borneo, where there is an ample supply of oil fuel. Tank steamers bringing oil to southern Australia pass Darwin, and the Government is making arrangements to establish oil fuel and petrol depots at Darwin. It will not be long before the railway goes through to Daly Waters from the north, a distance of365 miles, and soon we shall be able to deliver oil fuel and petrol at Daly Waters as cheaply as at Sydney or Melbourne. The cost of pumping water on the Barkly Tablelands will then be reduced from £8 or £12 a week to 30s. a week. 
I did not see many windmills on the cattle runs on the Barkly Tablelands. 
All the government bores along the stock routes are served by windmills, with big earthern or galvanized iron storage tanks to conserve supplies. 
There is very little surface water on the Barkly Tablelands. I saw it only in one or two places. But, after all, the Tablelands comprise only one defined district in the Northern Territory. In the Victoria River country there is magnificent surface water, as well as ample sub-artesian supplies. When I visited the Northern Territory, the northern portion of Australia was suffering from a severe drought, but, if honorable senators will examine the rainfall map for the past 25 years, they will find that monsoonal rains seldom, if ever, fail in the Northern Territory. They come well down over the Victoria River country, and also over, the Barkly Tablelands, but in a drought year they do not extend very far into Queensland so that whilst during my visit there was abundance of feed over the Barkly Tablelands, which were luxuriantly clothed with Mitchell grass, Flinders grass, and bluegrass, the country around Longreach was as bare as the floor of this Senate chamber, and cattle were dying in hundreds. 
I am aware, of course, that Longreach is a centre of the best pastoral country in Australia, if not in the world, and I was very much impressed with the fact that the Barkly Tablelands, whilst comprising in every essential feature similar country, were not so liable to drought conditions. This is one important reason why we should push on with railway development in that country. 
I submit the bill in the earnest hope that it will receive sympathetic consideration, and in the belief that honorable senators will see in it an honest effort on the part of the Government to create machinery by which we may get development in the Northern Territory. I am quite satisfied that if the Northern Territory is to be left to the ordinary departmental methods of control it will never be successfully developed. I believe that a new system of administration is desirable and necessary. The Northern Territory, in my opinion, can only be developed from within the Territory itself. I hope that this experiment will be given a trial, and that, as a result, we shall establish a thriving population in the north as the beginning of a self-governing community which will justify the creation of new states there, and thus remove from Australia the danger that lies in an empty north. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
.- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Under the provisions of sub-section 5 of section 39 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act and section 41 of the Constitution, aboriginal natives of Asia are disqualified from Commonwealth enrolment, unless they were enrolled as electors for the more numerous House of Parliament of a state prior to the coming into operation of the Franchise Act 1902, and have continuously retained the right to such state enrolment. At the Imperial Conference in 1921 the following resolution was adopted, . namely - 
The conference, while reconfirming the resolution of the Imperial War Conference of 1918, that each community of the British Commonwealth should enjoy complete control of the composition of its own population by means of restriction on immigration from any of the other communities, recognizes that there is an incongruity between the position of India as an equal member of the British Empire and the existence of disabilities upon British Indians lawfully domiciled in some other parts of the Empire. The conference accordingly is of the opinion that in the interests of the solidarity of the British Commonwealth it is desirable that the rights of such Indians to citizenship should be recognized. 
In four of the states, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and Tasmania, natives of British India are not disqualified on racial grounds from the state franchise, and the adoption of this measure will bring the Commonwealth and state franchises into closer harmony. The object of the bill is to remove the existing disqualification on racial grounds from adult natives of British India who are inhabitants of the Commonwealth and have lived in Australia continuously for the period of six months. The number of persons affected by the bill is limited. The Chief Electoral Officer has obtained figures from the Commonwealth Statistician to show that there are only 2,300 British Indians resident in the Commonwealth. Since the introduction of Indians is now controlled by our Immigration Restriction Act there can be no further introduction. In the ordinary course of events, therefore, their numbers must decrease, because British Indians cannot secure the right of entry and permanent domicile. They can come in only under permit and obtain temporary domicile. 
That is all. No others can obtain lawful domicile. Permits are usually for a period of from twelve months to two years. They are given only to a limited number - chiefly merchants,traders, students, Mohammedan priests, and tourists. 
SenatorKingsmill. - Can the Minister say who represented Australia at the Imperial Conference, and what his attitude was? 
This subject was dealt with originally at the war conference in 1918. The 1921 conference was attended by  Mr. Hughes,  and at the last conference the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  represented Australia. 
Yes, it is set out in the records of the conference. There was no disagreement except on the part of the South African Union, which abstained from voting. 
SenatorKingsmill. - Natal would not be enthusiastic over it. 
No. 
No; he came to Australia after the conference. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Need-  ham)  adjourned. 
.- I move- 
That this bill be now read a second time. 
This is a purely machinery measure, intended to rectify one of those technical anomalies which from time to time creep into various acts. The law as it stands enables an interest settlement to be made only up to the day of judgment.In other words, a successful litigant can only recover interest up to the day when he obtains a verdict in his favour, whereas it sometimes happens that settlement takes place mouths after a judgment has been delivered. The amending bill simply gives permission to charge interest until the actual day of settlement. That is the only point involved. The bill contains no provision of a contentious character. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
.- This bill may at first sight appear tobe unimportant, but financial measures are at all times of a most important character. Australia is staggering under a huge debt, and it is realized that a sinking fund is required to assist in reducing the burden. Sinking funds are effective when they are properly and honestly applied, but there are some members of this Parliament who are suspicious of such schemes One of them is the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Pratten),  who, speaking as a private member in the other branch of the legislature on the 15th May, 1924, stated- 
Various sinking funds have been established, some with good intentions, others with pious aspirations, some suggested, possibly, by expediency, and some -I say it with bated breath - in a spirit of hypocrisy. Of course, the mention of sinking funds tickles the ear of the electors, and provides a muchneeded soporific in connexion with our financial outlook. 
I do not know whether the Minister still subscribes to that view, but it is possible that the remarks that I have quoted are applicable to the present Government with respect to this: bill. In 1910 the Australian Labour party, despite serious opposition in both. Houses, introduced the note issue. It was stipulated that all money received from that source should be invested in government Securities, and that the profits should be paid into a redemption fund for the reduction of the national debt. I find that up to June, 1925, the profits derived from the note issue have amounted to approximately £12,873,000, but this Government, instead of paying that amount into the fund for the redemption of the national debt, has paid it into revenue. On the 20th July, 1921, when  Sir Joseph  Cook was Treasurer of the Commonwealth, he made the following observations in this connexion : - 
We have had a windfall during the year by the transfer of the Notes Branch of the Commonwealth Bank, which gave us £7,780,524. That was the amount of profit that had accumulated over a number ofyears, and I thought that the best 'thing to do was to put it out of the way of temptation by applying it to the redemption of the public debt. 

 Sir Joseph Cook, unlike the present Government, observed the stipulation, that the profits of the .note issue, should be used for the reduction of the national debt. The profit from the note issue now amounts to £1,000,000 a year. 
This bill provides that the money received by way of reparations shall be paid into the sinking fund. Up to the present time £257.692 has been received. 
Yes. My contention is that the whole of the profits from the note issue have not been so dealt with in accordance with the original intention. I hope that the Minister, in his reply to the debate, will inform the Senate what sum Australia may ultimately expect by way cf reparations when it is likely to be paid, and whether it will be paid in money or in kind. If Australia's share is  to  be paid in kind, it will have a very serious effect on the industries of the country. Let us look at the figures of the last few years, and see what the national debt now is. The position may be summarized as follows : - 

<graphic href="110332192507025_15_0.jpg"></graphic>

It will be noticed that the gross debt has not decreased, and that the net debt remains practically stationary. It has also to be remembered that next year loans aggregating £69,000,000 fall due, while in 1925-6 loans amounting  to  £19,000,000, aud in 1926-7 to £72,000,000, fall due It will be seen, therefore, that every effort should be made  to  reduce our financial burden. If the establishment of a sinking fund,, as proposed under this bill, is an honest attempt on the part of the Government to reduce the national indebtedness, the measure deserves the favorable consideration of the Senate ; but, after all, it might not be advisable to attempt to wipe out the debt in the present generation. It was incurred during the troublous years of war, and it might be preferable to reduce it at a rate that would not prejudice the industrial prosperity of the Commonwealth. If, however, the object can be achieved without affecting our prosperity, the undertaking is  tn  be commended. 
 I again voice my protest against the continuance of those sections of the principal act which authorize the Government to appropriate annually half the profits of 'the Commonwealth Bank,' and place them to the credit. of the national debt sinking fund. 
 This bill has nothing to do with that matter. It provides merely for the reparation money to be transferred to the sinking fund. 
 Order! I have already informed the honorable senator that he cannot discuss the operations of the Commonwealth Bank under this bill. 
.- In reply to the point raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  regarding the profits on the note issue, I can only say that it is useless crying over spilt milk. The present Government has, however, shown signs of repentance in that it has during its regime paid the profits into  the  National Debt Sinking Fund. In regard to the question raised by the honorable senator as to whether the amount received from Germany by way of reparations will be paid in cash or in kind, I may say that the arrangement as -communicated to the -Government is that indemnities will be paid by Germany either in cash or in kind. During the earlier years deliveries in kind will ^predominate, but the dominions will be paid their proportion of cash available, and will be credited by Great Britain with their proportion of deliveries in kind. There will be no actual delivery in kind to the dominions. The dominions will be credited with the value of the deliveries in kind, and the credits we receive will be paid by Great Britain in later years when cash is available. 
No. I indicated during my second-reading speech the total amount which Germany has to pay, the proportion the British Empire will receive, and the proportion of that received by Great Britain which will be paid to the Commonwealth. I gave the amounts we anticipated receiving each year, which are, of course, only approximate estimates. The amounts range from a minimum during this financial year of £239,000 to a maximum of £365,000 and the amount to be paid will be somewhere between those two figures. The amounts increase in the year 1928-9 to a minimum of £239,000 and a maximum of £909,000. Honorable senators will see that under the arrangement we cannot say how much we will be credited with in respect of payments in kind made by Germany. 
No deliveries in kind will be made to Australia, and there will, therefore, be no flooding of the Australian markets. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Payments to the sinking fund). 
 I move - 
That the following new paragraph be added : - "' and (d) - by omitting sub-sections 2 and 3 thereof." 
Sub-sections 2 and 3 read - 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph  (b)  of sub-section (1) of section 30 of the Commonwealth Bank Act 1911-1920, one half of the net profits derived by the Commonwealth Bank of Australia on and after the first day of July, 1923, shall be paid to the national debt sinking fund. 
The payment prescribed by the last preceding sub-section shall be made as soon as practicable after the preparation of each balance-sheet. 
I have submitted this amendment to provide that one-half of the profits made by the Commonwealth Bank shall ' not be credited to the national debt sinking fund. I have, of course, no objection to any reparations received from Germany being paid into that fund, neither  have  I any substantial" objection to certain other amounts being credited  to  it. I am, however, strongly opposed to  the  continual appropriation of one-half of  the  profits of the Commonwealth Bank. What are we doing? The profits of any other bank are not operated upon in this way, and under the present system this important financial institution has no opportunity of progressing. During the last six months the depositors in the savings bank branch of the Commonwealth Bank have withdrawn £800,000 more  than  they deposited, and if this continues the savings bank branch must soon cease to exist. This action on the part of the depositors is due largely to the decision of the board to pay depositors interest at the rate of 3£ per cent, when other banks, whose security is quite as good, are paying 4 per cent., or even more. The profits of the Commonwealth Bank should be at the disposal of the Commonwealth Bank Board. Since the death of the late governor,  Sir Denison  Miller, no additional branches have been established. That, in itself, is most deplorable ; but I believe I am correct in saying that one or more of the branches previously in existence have been closed during that time. I should like to know why the Commonwealth Bank Board does not establish branches for conducting  general banking business in localities where they find it profitable to conduct a savings bank business. There is only a limited number of towns in the Commonwealth where branches for the conduct of general banking business are established. 
The discussion of this measure-gives me the opportunity to moveto omit from the National Debt Sinking Fund Act certain provisions under which one-half of the profits of the Commonwealth Bank are placed to the credit of the national debt sinking fund. I am anxious that the profits made by the bank shall be made available for the extension of its business. Those who advocated the establishment of a Commonwealth Bank had no idea that the profits would be used in this way, at least until branches were established at all important centres. If the bank is not progressing, it is only natural that dissatisfaction exists in the minds of the bank officials, who cannot possibly see any prospect of promotion. 

 -(Senator Newland). - Under this measure the honorable senator cannot discuss the operations of the Commonwealth Bank. I ask him  to  confine his remarks to the amendment he has moved. 
The honorable senator must confine himself to the amendment. 
The honorable senator cannot on this bill discuss the rate of interest on overdrafts. 

 Senator PEARCE (Western Australia - Minister for Home and Territories) monwealth Bank as if it were a private bank depending on private capital. He forgets that when the Commonwealth Bank Act was amended last year the whole of its accumulated profits, amounting to ?4,000,000, were made available to it. It is not like a private institution. It has the guarantee of the Commonwealth behind it. If it sees fit to establish branches anywhere, there is nothing to stop it from doing so. As a matter of fact, new branches have been established since the death of  Sir Denison  Miller. 
I have made fairly close inquiries, and, notwithstanding the statement of  Senator Pearce,  I do not know of a branch of the Commonwealth Bank that has been opened since the death of  Sir Denison  Miller. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 4 and 5 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
This may be, as  Senator Wilson  says, merely a technical amendment of the act; but, after all, it provides for an extension of the powers given in that measure, which was strongly opposed in its passage through this and another place last year. The act enables the Government to appropriate ?500,000, and such further sums as are necessary from time to time, to make advances in connexion with the marketing abroad of primary produce, the advances to be limited to 80 per cent. of the value of the produce. Last session, honorable senators of the Labour party urged that this gave the Government too much power, and that after 80 per cent. of the value of certain produce had been advanced prices might drop to such an extent that the Government might be unable to regain the amount advanced, and consequently the community would have to bear the loss. That danger still exists. I do not know that fruit is any more immune from it than wheat is likely to be. We all know that the price of any commodity may drop in a very short space of time. Quite recently, we had that experience in regard to wool. My opinion is that instead of guaranteeing 80 per cent. to the exporters the Government should go wholeheartedly into the whole business of exporting produce. I can well remember Ministers in the past combating the socialistic ideas of the Labour party, but to-day they are themselves getting very close to socialism. At any rate, they are risking public money in helping every one who comes along for assistance to export produce.. The act contains a definite statement of the class of goods to be exported before assistance can be given, but. the proposal now  is  for advances to be made on "primary produce used or to be used in the manufacture or preparation of goods of a kind suitable for export." The  Age  has summed up the position of the Government very well. In a leading article it describes it as -  a Government that is squandering unproductive millions, and tacitly inviting each avaricious trading concern to come as a mendicant for public largesse. 
I should join heartily with the Government in this kind of work if it were truly a socialistic effort, but Ministers will only get as close to socialism as they can in order to placate some of their friends. However, as this amendment will not make very much difference to what is now the law I shall have nothing further to say, except to express the hope that the Senate will not again be asked to pass a small amending bill to enlarge the scope of a measure passed in the preceding session. 
In moving the second reading of the bill I told honorable senators that the spirit and intention of Parliament in passing the Export Guarantee Act had been vetoed by the Crown Law Department. We are now asking the Senate to do only what it was Parliament's intention to do last session. I can assure  Senator Needham  that the Government have no ambition to enter into trade. They want to get out of it as far as they can, but they feel they are responsible for assisting to stabilize and market the products of this country. That is the idea of the bill. It is not desirable, nor is it intended that the Government should commence to run this business. 
Those who are engaged in the Public Service are not trained to run businesses in the way suggested; it is not their job. The Government is endeavouring to assist those who are engaged in various industries to place their products on the markets of the world, so that they may reap from their labours a fuller reward than they are now getting, and consequently bring greater prosperity to Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Assistance to primary production) . 
Can the Minister state how many persons have availed themselves of the provisions of the act in relation to the export guarantee, and outline the action that has been taken by the Government ? 
It is rather difficult to answer off-hand such a comprehensive question. I think that the total amount advanced is somewhere in the vicinity of £200,000. The advance on sultanas has been at the rate of £9 a ton, and on currants, £1 10s. a ton. That amount will be refunded, of course, when prices have been stabilized, and the industry has been placed on a proper footing. 
Directly to the growers. Every precaution possible has been taken to ensure that any grower who is in difficulties shall obtain an advance. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. Under the existing law provision is made that when an estate passes to a widow, children, or grandchildren, th-3 amount of duty shall- be only two-thirds of that which would be charged if the estate passed to strangers. It is a generallyaccepted principle in the Estate Duty Acts of the various states that preferential treatment should be meted out- to widows and children. In other directions in the legislation of the Commonwealth and of the states steps have been- taken to confer upon widows privileges that are not enjoyed by ordinary citizens. In the case of the payment of estate duty that principle, to my mind, does not go quite fatenough. Under the Estate Duty Assessment Act of 1914 there is a general exemption in the case of all estates of a value of £1,000. If the value of the estate after the deduction of debts exceeds £1,000, but does not exceed £2,000, the duty payable is at the rate of £1 per cent. If the value of th,. estate exceeds £2,000, the duty is at the rate of £1 per cent., together with an additional percentage of one-fifth of £1 for every £1,000 or part of £1,000 by which the value exceeds £2,000, but so that the percentage shall not exceed £15 per cent. That section has been in operation ever since the act was first passed in 1914, although the measure has been amended in many other directions at different times. I wish, first of all, to compare the position of a widow with that of a stranger. Then I shall endeavour to show what financial alteration would follow the adoption of this proposed amendment of the act. It may, of course, be admitted at once that no really vital principle is involved. There is nothing in this measure, for instance, comparable with the principle underlying the imposi tion of a land value tax. This duty is imposed merely for the purpose of raising revenue. It has been stated repeatedly that the Estate Duty Act of 1914 was a war measure introduced because of the necessity for raising large sums of money to finance Australia's operations during that period. Even had there not been a war, I believe that such a measure would have found its way on to the statute-book. It affects a very considerable number of people in the Commonwealth. According to a return that I have received from the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics, based upon the census of 1921, there were then in Australia 164,480 widows) - 60,701 in New South Wales, 54,928 in Victoria, 19,039 in Queensland, 15,262 in South Australia, 8,526 in "Western Australia, 5,965 in Tasmania, 33 in the Northern Territory, and 26 in the Federal Capital Territory, making a total of 164.480. Since 1921 the population of the Commonwealth has increased considerably, and I have no doubt that the number of widows has increased correspondingly. The exact number of widows in the Commonwealth at present is not ascertainable, but it may be assumed that they number at least 170,000. Only a limited number of those would, in the ordinary course of events, be called upon to pay estate duty, because estates of a- dutiable value are not bequeathed to them. It will, I think, be granted that a wife during her life is just as much, responsible for a substantial banking account as the husband is likely to be. To me it is absolutely wrong that, when the husband is taken away by death, the Commonwealth or the states should individually or collectively annex any portion of that banking account. I am opposed to estates duties generally, but 1 emphatically protest against that provision which operates against widows and children. When a wife dies and leaves property to her husband he can continue his usual occupation.  His  salary goes on. and to all intents and purposes - apart from the loss of his partner, he is not in any worse position than he occupied before her death. He is, therefore better able to stand up against the exactions of the various taxation authorities. I am not quite sure what the law is in relation to estates that are held jointly, but the state should not, when a husband dies, step in and annex portion of the value of the estate, in the acquisition of which the widow may have played an active part. It is bad enough for a widow to be called upon to face the added responsibilities of attending to the wants of her family as well as meet all legitimate claims against her. She should have the benefit of a fairly substantial exemption altogether apart from the general exemption at present allowed under the act. Those who have any knowledge of estates must know that frequently the actual amount of cash available to a widow is limited, and that not infrequently an estate is encumbered. Frequently a widow is obliged to raise money on second mortgage; and we all know that, however estimable our legal friends may be, they are not disposed to work for nothing. In these circumstances, it is very difficult to raise money to meet all the expenses following the death of a husband, and satisfy the demands of the Taxation Commissioners. In a rich country like Australia it should be unnecessary to have an army of well-trained, lynx-eyed taxation officers ready, almost at a moment's notice, to pounce upon a widow like hungry crows upon a wounded dingo, and claim portion of the estate, which, jointly with her husband, she may have been responsible in securing. The law does not prevent the accumulation of estates. It seems that those who favour this class of legislation, under which estates are built up, are quite satisfied that, upon the death of a husband or wife, as the case might be, the state should come along and annex a portion of the estate. I feel certain that if the people of Australia gave serious attention to this matter they would approve of the' amendment to the act, which would be highly appreciated by those directly "concerned, because it would relieve them from the responsibility, at probably the most trying time in their lives, of having to find, at very great cost, the necessary money to meet the demands of the Taxation Department. The act produces, in round figures, £1,000,000 per annum. It has been on the statute-books of Great Britain for very many years. Probably because it was a British law, it was enacted in this country. But it is entirely wrong to raise public revenue in this way. In 1921 the administration of the act produced £1.119,913; in 1922, £1,040,668; in 1923, £1.169,928; and in 1924, £1,332,049. Evidently the officers of the department are industrious in the collection of this tax, because the total amount outstanding at the end of the financial year 1923:4 was only £100,038. It is important that we should know to what extent the revenue might suffer if this proposed amendment of the law were agreed to, but it is difficult, if not impossible, from the information at the disposal of the Taxation Commissioners, to make any reliable estimate. I am aware that many people, including., no doubt, ministerial supporters, object to any proposal that is likely to interfere with the revenue. But if it is only a small matter, and if it is spread over a large number of persons, it should receive favorable consideration, particularly in view of the large amount collected by way of customs, excise, land and income taxation. I find, from a perusal of the eighth report of the Taxation Commissioners for the year ending 30th June, 1921, pages 81-82, that the number of estates dealt with, the value of which did not exceed £5,000, was 3,985. After the necessary deductions had been made, the dutiable value of the estates was £8,975,853, and the total amount received was £84,183. But, unfortunately, it would require an examination of the whole of the estates involved before the commissioners could say to what extent the revenue would be affected by this amending bill. Probably there would be a loss of revenue of from 50 per cent, to 60 per cent. ; but at the very most the loss could not be more than £84,183. This would not be a serious matter in view of the healthy  state of Commonwealth finances at the present time. As the average value of an estate is £2,700, the total loss should not be very serious. Of course, those estates exceeding £5,000 in value would also, under the operation of this bill, receive the benefit of the exemption of £5,000. In 1922, the last year for which figures are available, the total number of estates for probate in Australia was 5,311. The number of dutiable estates of a value of over £5,000 in 1922 was 1,381, and even if all those estates passed to widows the sum involved would not be very substantial. My proposal should appeal to all honorable senators. There is no reason why we should continue to impose taxation of this character, especially upon widows. I am well aware that the suggestion will meet with some opposition, but I regard the present time as most opportune for its adoption. Federal revenue is buoyant. and this year it will amount to over £60,000,000. Some people suggest that the Commonwealth should retire from the whole field of direct taxation, hut it is of far-reaching importance to the parties concerned that Ave should at least cease to impose duties on the estates of widows. 
 If the husbands obtained possession of their estates and died a few years afterwards, the taxation officers would again relieve them of as much as they possibly could for the purpose of further augmenting the national revenue. I have been unable to secure from official sources the exact amount of revenue that would be lost by the adoption of my suggestion, but it would not be a considerable sum. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Crawford)  adjourned. 
.- When the debate was adjourned yesterday I. was about to deal with the position of the primary producers who are and have been seriously affected by the cutting off of the transport services between Tasmania and the mainland. An article published in the Launceston  Examiner  of the 14th January of this year, which tersely set out the position, included the following passage: - 
Supplies of certain lines are short. Trade generally is seriously hampered. In this event it is  always  the producer who suffers most, and he is now in that unenviable plight, lt has been announced, for example, that unless a shipment of sugar can be obtained Jones and Company's jam factory will have to close down. If jam making and preserving are suspended, much of the small fruit crop will be worthless. The grower will not be able to sell it. Not so very long ago the slogan was frankly uttered by a somewhat over-zealous Labourite of " To hell with the farmer." The sentiment, of course, was disowned, and as far as Labour and unionism in the main are concerned the disavowal will be accepted. Still the producer must feel that in certain socialistic quarters there is little thought and less sympathy for him. Not only is it sought to confiscate and communize his means of production - the farm that he may have carved out of the bush - but whenever there is industrial trouble in the -transport business he is always the sacrifice. His year's crop can rot if at the time of gathering there is one of the periodical upsets in the sea-carrying trade. 
I need hardly point out that in Tasmania, in common with other parts of the Commonwealth, a great number of soldier settlers have established themselves in the soft fruits industry. It is obvious that crops of soft fruits, such as raspberries, strawberries, and currants, must be garnered at a particular time and treated without delay. If, owing to some dislocation of snipping, sugar cannot be obtained by the canning and preserving factories, there is no alternative but that the crop must rot. This, has been the experience in TasmaniaSeveral growers, whose livelihood depended on the successful operation of~ the industry, found that when the time  came for the gathering of the crops, tho factories were not prepared to purchase: the fruit because, owing to the cutting off of the sugar supplies attendant on the shipping hold-up, there was no means o£ preserving it. The whole of their year'swork therefore went for nought. Tharis the position in which some of the small? growers of soft fruits found themselves. Similarly, hotel-keepers, boardinghouse proprietors, small shop-keepers, and motor car proprietors, have all been seriously injured in their business during the1 tourist season. Just as they anticipated securing some return to compensate them for the lack of business during the off season, shipping communication ceased, and they were left practically poverty stricken. Many people who have entered into financial obligations irc Tasmania find that they are unable to meet them simply because their ordinary business avocations, because of these frequent hold-ups, have proved unprofitable. I endeavoured last.  evening to focus the very serious position" of Tasmania. Tasmania is regarded by the people of the mainland as the garden of Australia.  Her  scenic beauties are referred to in terms of admiration.  Her  mountains, I was going to say, rival those of Switzerland, but I prefer to say that the mountain scenery of Switzerland rivals that of Tasmania.  Her  lake scenery is wonderfully wild, and its grandeur is such that people travel great distances to admire it. 
Yes, when they can go there and return. Although visitors are very voluble in their praises of the beauties of Tasmania, they are equally loud in their protestations when they find that certain conspirators, acting against the best interests of the community, can prevent tourists from returning to their home states. In order that it may not be thought that the picture is overdrawn, I shall read portion of a report that was published in the Hobart  Mercury  of the 12th  January last, at the time of the shipping hold-up. The article indicates the tragic position in which a number of stranded tourists in Hobart were placed, and states,  inter alia - 
It is estimated that, despite the fact that over 300 were able to return to the mainland in the s.s.Hobson's  Bay,  there still remain some 1,000 stranded visitors from the mainland in Hobart, whose prospects of return in the early future are far from bright. The majority of these had made application for passages to Melbourne in the s.s.  Largs Bay,  of the Australian Commonwealth Line, which was originally scheduled to leave Hobart for Melibourne to-morrow. Owing to the hold-up of this vessel in Sydney at the last moment, hope of relief for these unfortunate persons has vanished. A . groat number of them have already long overstayed their holidays, and their immediate return to their positions is pf the utmost importance to them. Many others, who 5iad arranged their finances, to allow of their joining the  Largs Bay  to-morrow, have been  completely nonplussed by the uncertainty of -this steamer's movements, and are faced with the prospects of becoming stranded with no money. The situation in which these people have found themselves bids shortly to become  desperate - it is indeed desperate with many of them now. 
Each and every one of them has his or her particular story of hardship, anxiety,- and inconvenience. There are the clerks, the salesineu, shop assistants, mechanics, and the like, whose positions cannot be held for them for any length of time - some have been lost already - and there are the typists, stenographers,, lady clerks, and shop assistants, who in parties of three or four came over to Tasmania a short three weeks ago with, for the time being, not a care in the world and the prospects of a happy holiday before them, and are now stranded here with scanty money, no relations, and no prospects of early release. There are the business men, to whom return by a stipulated date may mean the acceptance or the loss of some valuable contract, or the difference between financial prosperity and loss. There are the students, who must get back in time for their examinations or see years of hard study wasted needlessly; and the sailors from the Australian navy, who must return to rejoin their ships to go to Singapore or China; and there are those - many of whom are not tourists - who have been hastily summoned to attend a dying relative's bedside, only to find the summons impossible to obey because of the arrogant attitude adopted by a few seamen. The misery, anxiety, worry, loss, and inconvenience whichhave been caused already in this state by the dislocation of its shipping services can never be estimated or expressed. 
That is a brief outline of the position in which a number of peojjle who had gone to Tasmania found themselves at that period. Girls employed in shops and offices who had been saving up money for the whole year in order to enjoy a short holiday in Tasmania, and who had retained only . sufficient to purchase a return ticket, were stranded. On the day they intended returning they were notified that communication with the mainland had ceased. This obviously was to them a serious matter. They had no banking accounts on which to draw, and no relatives or friends in Tasmania to assist them. We can readily imagine the joy they experienced when it was announced that the Commonwealth Government had decided to arrange for a vessel to be manned to restore communication ; but when the Government called for volunteers to man the  Nairana  to carry passengers back to the mainland, to transport necessary food; stuffs, and continue the mail and other services which should be maintained between states, the vessel was declared black by these enemies  of Tasmania. It is amazing to read of the happenings at the time the vessel was to leave for Tasmania on this errand of mercy, and to realize that unionists, who were objecting to the running of this boat, were inconveniencing not only their opponents but also many of their own friends. The  sympathies of many of these people who were stranded in Tasmania with no possible hope of getting away were with Labour, yet the  Nairana  was declared black. On perusing the newspapers of the 16th January last, we find that the call by the Federal Government for a volunteer crew met with a ready response, but that just as the vessel was ready to sail she was declared black, and the services of a body of police were required to enable the volunteers to go on board to work the ship, and thus enable communication to be re-established. It is remarkable that so little sympathy for their own friends should have been shown by those who desired to disrupt the roots of society. 
It is unnecessary to labour the question. What the Tasmanian people have gone through is obvious to all. I do not, however, wish to conclude without making certain suggestions by which this difficulty could be overcome. An agreement exists between the Postmaster-General and Huddart Parker- Limited and (he Union Steamship Company of New Zealand Limited for the conveyance of mails between Melbourne and Tasmania. In subsection c of section 3 of this agreement it is provided that - 
In the event of - 
Seizure and detention of any steamship employed under this contract in consequence or anticipation of hostilities or warlike operations; 
Any of the ports or places hereinbefore mentioned being or being within a proclaimed place within the meaning of the Quarantine Act 1908-20, or any amendment thereof; 
Strikes or lock-outs affecting the running of the said steam-ships; the service or services thereby affected may be suspended by the contractors, and if suspended shall (except where any steam-ship is seized and detained as aforesaid), be resumed at the expiration of not more than twenty days from the date on which the cause of such suspension ceases. 
That provision, in my opinion, should be amended to read as follows: - 
The service or services under sub-sections (a) and  (b)  thereby affected may be suspended by the contractors, and if suspended shall (except where any steamship is seized and detained as aforesaid) be resumed at the expiration of not more than twenty days from the date on which the cause of such suspension ceases; but the service or services under sub-section (c) must be resumed within 48 hours from the hour on which such suspension occurs, the Commonwealth Government, if required, to find the necessary labour for manning such ship or ships. 
Paragraph C (2)  a  should be amended to read - 
Due notice of any such suspension, and the cause thereof, shall he given in writing by the contractors to the Postmaster-General within eight hours from the hour on which such suspension occurs. 
In the event of the contractors either being unable or unwilling to man the ship or ships they shall notify such failure to the Postmaster-General within 24 hours from the hour on which such suspension of the services occurred. 
In the case of any breach by the contractors of any of the conditions herein contained, the contractors shall pay a sum of £1,000 by way of liquidated damages, such sum to be deducted by the PostmasterGeneral from any moneys due or accruing to the contractors under this contract. 
I submitted these suggested amendments to the Municipal Association of Tasmania, and they were received with considerable favour. It appears to me that relief would be given if the Commonwealth Government would do exactly what it did when the men last ceased work, save that instead of waiting for a fortnight before arranging for a vessel to be manned in order to provide a continuous service, it should call for volunteers within 24 hours of a hold-up. We recognize, of course, that there must be a delay of 24 hours or so, but that would not be of serious consequence to the people concerned so long as they knew the service was' to be continued within a short period. I sincerely hope that if such a suspension again occurs, the Governmentwill immediately intervene, and either call for volunteer labour or direct the Department of Navigation to provide a regular service between Tasmania and the mainland. I also suggest that the following provision be added to section 3 of the agreement - 
That the Postmaster-General may nominate one representative on the board of directors of the Tasmanian Shipping Company. 
If the Postmaster-General nominated a representative it would be of little moment whether such a representative had or had not a vote. With a representative on the board, however, the PostmasterGeneral would be kept in close touch with all that was happening in connexion with what is a vital service to one of the states within the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth Government pays certain mail  subsidies to shipping companies, andin similar circumstances we find that in other parts of the world representation is given to the Government on different shipping boards.For instance, in a publication entitled  Government Aid to Shipping,  published by the Department of Com- merce, Washington, we find that - 
Under the recent mail contracts made with the leading Japanese steamship lines the Japanese Government has practically as much control over the affairs of these companies as would be possible under direct government ownership. The extent of governmental control is indicated by the fact that all passenger Tares and charges are subject to modification by the Minister of Communication, who must be consulted also in regard to arrangement of routes, ports of call, number of voyages to be made, and time of voyage. 
In Austria also a subsidy was paid to steamship mail contractorsunder these conditions - 
To carry both letter and parcel posts free of charge. 
To placeits vessels at the disposal of the Government in time of war in return for satisfactory compensation. 
To permit the state to nominate three representatives on the board of directors, the  president  of the board to be nominated by the Emperor, and the other representatives to be nominated by the Minister of Commerce. 
In the Dutch mail contracts there is a similar clause which reads - 
Appointment of directors and representatives, and adoption of statutes and by-laws to be subject to the approval of the Dutch Government, which would also have the right to be represented at all meetings of the company, and the power to examine all its books ana papers. 
I f a clause such as that I have submitted were added to the contract it would be a means of assisting the Government to avoid some of the difficulties that are bound to arise. I desire to state definitely and clearly that such difficulties cannot be overcome unless we have a Government sufficiently strong to act. The people of Tasmania and the supporters of the Government read with a great deal of pleasure the news that the Prime Minister has stated definitely that this condition of affairs must cease. 
Yes, and he is bound by it. For six years Tasmania's trade has been dislocated, and its business and everything else has gone by the board. Yet hitherto no action has been taken to remove the cause of it all. Now we have the assurance of the Prime Minister that the Government intend to act. The statement of the right honorable gentleman has given considerable relief. The people now feel that in the event of any dislocation of the shipping service in the near or distant future definite action will be taken. I submit the motion, and trust that it will be adopted by the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Payne)  adjourned. 
.- I move - 
That, in the opinion of the Senate, the Navigation Act should be amended so as to exclude Tasmania from the operations of the sections of the act relating to coastal passengers, thus providing for freedom of intercourse by any ships between Tasmania and mainland ports. 
That this resolutionbe transmitted to the House of Representatives with a request for its concurrence therein. 
The motion I am submitting differs very materially from one which I moved last session. That motion, after being adjourned from time to time, lapsed at the prorogation. It read as follows: - 
That in the opinion of the Senate the operation of Part VI. of the Navigation Act is decidedly detrimental to the interests of the producers of Tasmania; and, therefore, Ministers should provide relief by exorcising the powers conferred by section 286, which authorizes the Governor-General to exempt British ships from the coastal provisions of the act. 
Whereas that motion asked for the exemption of Tasmania from the operation of the whole of the coastal provisions ofthe Navigation Act, the motion I am now submitting merely asks that these provisions be relaxed in order to permit overseas vessels to carry passengers between the mainland and Tasmania. I modified my original proposal because I realized that it was extremely difficult, if not impossible, under existing conditions, to exempt one state from the operation of the coastal provisions of an act which prohibits overseas vessels from carrying cargo or passengers from one port of the Commonwealth to another. But I do not think there can be any objection to the modified proposal that overseas vessels should be allowed to carry passengers between the mainland and Tasmania. I can assure my honorable friends of the Opposition that my proposal has the approval of the Labour party in Tasmania, and I do not think that there is any serious objection to it on the part of the trade unions concerned. Of course, one is treading on dangerous ground in attempting to interfere with an act which has been placed on the statute-book not only for the protection of those who go down to the sea in ships, but also to prevent Australian ship-owners from having to face unfair competition. It is not right that vessels which are not obliged to comply with the conditions laid down in the Navigation Act should be permitted to come into unrestricted competition with vessels which are obliged to comply with them. It is not claimed that the whole of Tasmania's troubles are due to the Navigation Act. Far from it. But it is claimed that, owing to its isolated position and to the fact that, in order to find a market, all its produce has to be shipped, it suffers considerably from the operation of the provisions of that act. Just as a small boat is the first to rock in a storm, so is Tasmania the first to be injured by the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act. I have before me the report of the royal commission on the effect of that legislation. It is a rather peculiar report. There are really three reports - one by the  chairman (Mr. Prowse)  and  Mr. Seabrook;  one by  Mr. Anstey, Mr. Yates,  and  Senator McHugh;  and the third by Senators Duncan and Elliott. The first report I have mentioned shows clearly that Tasmania suffers hardship under the Navigation Act. While Senators Duncan and Elliott admitted in their report that Tasmania did suffer somewhat under this act, they said that its troubles did not arise entirely from that cause. The third report, by the Labour members of the commission, attempted to prove that, although Tasmania had suffered in some respects, its position had actually improved since the coming into force of the Navigation Act. It is natural to expect that Labour men would attempt to justify legislation which was really the creation of a Labour government. The report signed by the  chairman  and  Mr. Seabrook  says - 
The question arises as to what has been the effect on Tasmania of the cessation of these services. 
That is to say, the services between Hobart and New Zealand, via Sydney and Melbourne. 
The various effects are dealt with separately as follow :  - 
The tourist traffic; 
The timber industry; 
The fruit industry; 
Trading generally. 
For many years we have claimed that the tourist traffic is of great importance to the little state of Tasmania. Prior to the coming into operation of the Navigation Act a considerable number of people visited Tasmania, a fact that is borne out by figures given in the report of the royal commission. The report points out that certain visitors to Tasmania who formerly travelled by overseas boats, because they were more comfortable, now neglected to visit the state under conditions which compelled them to travel with less comfort on interstate boats. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.30 to 8 p.m. 

The royal commission that inquired into the effects of the Navigation Act reported as follows in relation to the Tasmanian tourist traffic: 
These tourists came by what was known as the "apple trip." They could travel during the apple season by mail steamer between say Sydney or Brisbane - Melbourne - Hobart, and return by another mail steamer. These vessels began to build up a separate branch of the tourist traffic. It is claimed that most of those people do not now visit Tasmania, because they desired comfortable travelling which, it is stated, is denied to them bythe present facilities, consisting of comparatively small coastal vessels, with frequently crowded passenger accommodation, and the LauncestonHobart railway. 
The evidence that was taken from the director of the tourist bureau in Hobart led two of the commissioners to the following conclusion: - 
Your Commissioners are of the opinion, in regard to the tourist traffic: - 
That the tourist traffic to Tasmania has suffered by reason of the operation of the coastal trading sections of the Navigation Act; and 
That the shipping facilities to Tasmania for passengers during the summer months of each year are inadequate for tourist traffic. 
That is the opinion of the  chairman (Mr. Prowse)  and  Mr. Seabrook.  Other commissioners who made a separate report also admitted that Tasmania had suffered. 
I shall deal now with the effect of :the act on the timber trade, which is one of Tasmania's chief industries. That state has large supplies of hardwood, which it is anxious to send to mainland markets, where it meets with very serious competition from timber that is imported from America and the Baltic -ports. Oversea boats used to call at Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, and Hobart, and then proceed to New Zealand, giving a regular service. At that time Tasmania did a considerable trade in timber with New Zealand. When the Navigation Act became operative that monthly service ceased; the oversea boats would no longer call at Hobart, because they would be classed as coastal traders, and would have to comply with the conditions of the Navigation Act. Tasmania was thus deprived of a considerable amount of business in railway sleepers and hardwoods of all descriptions. At the present time she cannot rely upon any vessel being available to take that timber to New Zealand. Occasionally a ship calls at Hobart, but the service is so irregular that a saw-miller cannot make contracts. The competition with oversea softwoods is sufficiently severe without this additional handicap. From Launceston to Melbourne the rate of carriage ranges from 5s. 3d. to 5s. 9d.  v  100 super, feet. From Baltic ports softwoods can be brought to Melbourne for 3s. 3d. a 100 super, feet.. The royal commission on the effect of the operation of the Navigation Act made a comparison of the freight charges, and in the report presented by Messrs. Prowse and Seabrook it is stated that - 
Evidence was placed before your Commissioners that since the Navigation Act came into force the timber trade of Tasmania with New Zealand has practically been lost. A good timber market for Tasmanian timber existed there. The lack of shipping facilities killed the market, and the only export to New Zealand is by an occasional vessel. The same evidence was brought forward in regard to Adelaide. There is a hig market at Adelaide for Tasmanian timber, as South Australia has practically no timber production and relies on Western Australia, and formerly Tasmania, for its supply. Evidence was placed before your Commissioners that contracts could not be obtained in South Australia because shipping facilities were not reliable. 
That is so. It may be surprising to honorable senators from Western Australia to learn that there was a possibility of Tasmania working up a considerable trade with  Western  Australia in hardwoods, particularly flooring boards, if a direct steamer service was available. When I last addressed the Senate on this matter I mentioned the case of a firm that had been asked, to send a trial shipment, if it could be done at a reasonable cost. There is no direct shipping service between Hobart and Fremantle, and it was found that the miller would have to ship the timber to Melbourne, transhipping it there to Western Australia. That made the price prohibitive. 
The fact remains that these inquiries were made for Tasmania's hardwood. The Hobart  Mercury  published the following recently in 'relation to the matter: - 
Orders have been received in Hobart for timber for shipment to Western Australia, subject to approval of a sample lot of 10,000 feet, and that it is shipped direct in order to save the extra cost of transhipment via Melbourne. There is no direct interstate service from Hobart to Western Australia, and the only opportunity of shipping direct is by an overseas steamer calling there on the way to England after loading fruit at Hobart. 
The paragraph proceeds to say that the total cost of shipping timber from Hobart to Fremantle, if it had to be transhipped at Melbourne, would be 22s. a 100 super feet. That, of course, makes the price prohibitive. One would imagine that the Commonwealth Shipping Line was brought into being to rescue producers from over-charges of this description. Those who desire to ship timber to Western Australia approached the management of that line, and asked whether a small shipment could be sent on a " Bay " liner. They were met with a refusal. 
Was any reason given ? 
It was never the policy of the line to compete with Australian coastal steamers, 
That statement " let the cat out of the bag."  If  the Commonwealth Government Line of Steamers is not prepared to compete with the interstate steamers, of what earthly use are they to the producers of Australia? I was led, because of this, to the decision that if the matter was raised in the Senate I would vote for the sale of the line. That is by the way.  Mr. .Kneen  went on to say - although they had done so in special circumstances for Queensland with frozen meat, when there was no direct boat from that state to another. 
There was no direct service between Tasmania and Western Australia, yet the management of the line refused to carry timber for Tasmania.  Mr. Kneen  also said - 
From the point of view of possible delay to the vessels concerned the Bay steamers could not very well handle interstate cargo, for the boats sailed to a close itinerary, and during the fruit season they. had little time in ports. Further, assuming that they agreed to handle the Tasmanian timber, they would have every Tom, Dick and Harry howling out for them to take their cargo, and there would be so much that the steamers would be unduly delayed. 
That is a remarkable confession. 
But we have other produce which,  we  would like to send to Western Australia. Tasmania grows hops, and on one occasion recently we desired to send a shipment to that state. It was found that the only means open to us was to ship first to Melbourne, and at extra cost tranship to a vessel trading with Fremantle. These are two items of the primary production in connexion with which Tasmania, owing to the absence of reasonable interstate shipping facilities, has been directly penalized by the Navigation Act. 
Does the honorable senator think that, if steamers of the Commonwealth Government Shipping Line were permitted to carry cargo. Tasmanian difficulties would be overcome? 

 Mr. E. H. Thompson, a director of Henry Jones and Company, Hobart, in bis evidence before the commission, stated - 
As regards manufacturing business and that with which we are particularly acquainted, the Navigation Act has operated to direct disadvantage inasmuch as it was a great convenience when the overseas steamers were loading here to be enabled (before the act cameinto force) to make direct shipments of our goods from Hobart to South Australia and Western Australia. There is very seldom an opportunity of making direct shipments to these states now. The interstate companies, do not provide a regular service from Hobart to South Australia and Western Australia. The fact of it having been practicable to ship products by these direct fast overseas steamers (without the objectionable delays and knocking about to which goods are subjected during transhipping) was a very big factor in working up our trade with Western Australia in particular, and this has steadily fallen off until it is now only about half what it was when direct shipments were possible, the falling off being largely attributable to the unsatisfactory means of delivery. 
He was asked - 
You say that previously you had an opportunity of direct trade with Adelaide and  Perth,  which is not now possible. Do you contend that if it were possible, you would be assisted in developing it? 
To this question he replied - 
Yes, I am certain of that. A few' days ago there was ft buyer in Adelaide for a quantity of our pulp. He required direct shipment. We have looked everywhere, and cannot get an opportunity for shipment. We may have to wait a month or two, and then the pulp will be valueless. 
This is another illustration of how Tasmania is injured by the operation- of the Navigation Act. It is quite obvious, without going into all the details, that a state like Tasmania, which has to place all its produce on board ship before it can reach its principal markets, must be severely handicapped when transport facilities are so limited. I now direct the attention of honorable senators to the minority report, signed by Senators Duncan and Elliott, who recommended - 
That the coastal trading provisions of the Navigation Act be repealed. 
That there be substituted therefor adequate duties, under the Customs Tariff Act, upon foreign shipping, with a lesser preferential rate upon British shipping, calculated in the case of cargoes upon the rates of freight charged per ton and, in the case of passengers, upon the fares charged. 
All other sections of the Navigation Act to stand. 
Since the members of the commission were so divided on this subject, we must decide ourselves whether it is desirable to take action to give relief to those states which are suffering through the operation of the act. 
How many minority reports were published?' 
I wish to make it perfectly clear that I have no intention whatever of doing anything to interfere with those Drovisions of the act that particularly affect seamen. I have no desire to make the conditions of seamen worse than they are under existing conditions. I believe that our seamen get no more than they are entitled to. Therefore. I do not wish to interfere with the main provisions of the act. Some people may say that the adoption of my motion would be a blow to the White Australia policy. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilson)  adjourned. 
.- I move - 
That in the opinion of the Parliament of the Commonwealth the proposed construction by the Railway Council of single line tunnels on the Kyogle-Brisbane section of the standard gauge railway betrays a lack of confidence in the future of Australia, shows a want of vision and imagination, and is unworthy of the Commonwealth. 
That it be an instruction to the Government to take all necessary steps to see that the tender forms are immediately amended to provide for the construction of double-line tunnels on the proposed railway. 
That the foregoing resolutions be transmitted to the House of Representatives with a request for its concurrence therein. 
We were assured by the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  who introduced the measure pledging the Commonwealth to advance portion of the money required for the construction of this railway, that the work was to be the commencement of the unification of the railway gauges from Brisbane to Fremantle. With that general idea I feel sure that the great majority of honorable senators were in accord, but at that time the Minister gave no indication that it was not intended to construct the track sufficiently wide to carry a double line. Tenders have now been invited for the construction of the line. I find that the distance from Kyogle to the Queensland border is 26½ miles, and from the border to South Brisbane 69 miles, but tenders are being called for only 60½ miles. The balance of the line in the neighbourhood of Brisbane, I understand, is to be built by day labour. On the New South Wales side there are to be three tunnels measuring 215 yards, 198 yards, and about 1,240 yards in length respectively, and the two former will take a curved course, this being necessary in order to maintain a grade of not more than1 in 60. Or. the Queensland side there are to be two tunnels, one 226 yards in length, miles from the border, and the other 462 yards long, 2½ miles from the border. One does not need to know very much about railway construction to realize that a single-line tunnel is not as expensive to construct as one sufficiently large for a double line, but it would be far more costly to construct two single-line tunnels than one wide enough to carry two lines of rails. On the line from Sydney to Newcastle all the tunnels are sufficiently wide for, and now carry, a double line of rails. 
Not inevery in stance. 
The Woy Woy tunnel was originally built to carry two lines, and so was the Hawkesbury bridge. The tunnels between the Hawkesbury bridge and Sydney may have been built originally only wide enough for one line, but the line has since been deviated, and some of the tunnels eliminated. Now the whole line from Sydney as far as Wallarobba is wide enough for two lines of rails. The country between Newcastle and the Clarence River, known as the Northern Rivers district, is unequalled. No land commands a higher price than this rich country. 
Up ' to £150, and even £200 an acre. The fact that confronts us at every turn is the lack of confidence shown by politicians and others in the future of Australia. It is gratifying to know that in the case of t'hf! new bridge to be built over the Sydney Harbour an optimistic view was taken. The track will be, approximately, 50 feet in width and about 170 feet above high-water mark. It will carry a double railway line, several tram lines, and roadways for both vehicular and pedestrian traffic. The Kyogle to Brisbane line is to be constructed conjointly by the states of New South Wales and Queensland and the Commonwealth, and the officers who comprise the railway council are the Commonwealth Railways.  Commissioner  (Mr. Bell),  the Chief Commissioner of Railways in New South Wales  (Mr. Fraser),  and the Railways Commissioner of Queensland  (Mr. Davidson).  Honorable senators should take a broad view of this important subject. Brisbane is making very rapid progress; in fact, no capital city in the- Commonwealth has gone ahead at greater speed than has the capital of Queensland. The state of which Brisbane is the capital is one of the largest, wealthiest, and certainly one of the best governed in the Commonwealth. In New South Wales, more particularly between the Queensland border and Newcastle, the country is, as I have just stated, particularly fertile. We do not need to draw upon our imagination to' realize that cities such as Grafton, and towns such as Lismore and Macksville and other potential cities in that area must before very long become larger even than Brisbane. The traffic between Sydney and Brisbane, with the exception of perhaps a negligible quantity, will in time be conveyed over the proposed new railway, as it is approximately 100 miles shorter than the existing route via Toowoomba. I believe the best possible route has been selected, especially through the mountains dividing New South Wales and Queensland, and it does not require much consideration to realize that when it is eventually decided, as it undoubtedly will be, to duplicate the railway it will be far more difficult to construct tunnels sufficiently wide to carry two lines of rails than if the work were done now. This miserable policy was in operation some years ago when a line was constructed between Sydney and the South Coast. What was the result? It was soon discovered that a single-line tunnel at Oxford, where there was a stiff grade, was positively dangerous. In most tunnels there is a substantial grade - in the one I have just mentioned through the mountains between New South Wales and Queensland there is a grade of 1 in 60 - and at Oxford it was even steeper. Even with a moderate load an ordinary locomotive was almost incapable of hauling a train, with the result that with a following wind the smoke and steam could not be left behind. The passengers and train crew suffered so severely that it was eventually decided to construct a double-line tunnel in an entirely different position. Had such a tunnel been provided in the first instance the extra expense thus incurred would have been avoided. In the construction of the proposed railway the Commonwealth, New South Wales, and Queensland are committed to the extent of approximately £4,000,000^ and when the tenders are opened the contract prices should be published. Irrespective of the amount involved, this is an opportune time to instruct the railway council to get in touch with the Governments of New South Wales and Queensland with a view to having the decision reconsidered, and the necessary steps taken to ensure the construction of tunnels capable of carrying two sets of rails. Open cuttings are, of -course, not of such vital importance, as they can be widened at comparatively little extra cost. When another tunnel has to be constructed alongside an existing tunnel the difficulties are accentuated, because blasting operations may cither injure or totally destroy the existing tunnel. In such circumstances great risks are incurred, and construction work has to be carried out at such a slow rate that the cost becomes excessive. I do not know why contractors should not be asked to submit alternate prices for single and double line tunnels to enable a comparison to be made. I have not before me figures showing the cost of tunnelling, but the cost of excavating per cubic yard for a single-line tunnel is, comparatively speaking, much more than would be the cost of a double-line tunnel. 
If they had, surely they would not have decided on single tunnels. I do not suppose the engineers are aware of what the cost would be in either case; if they were asked ' they would probably say they were relying upon the prices put in by the contractors. When the New South Wales Government were building the western line across the Blue Mountains, the engineers of those days thought they were performing a wonderful feat in constructing a . zig-zag on both sides of the mountains, but in a few years it was found to be quite unsatisfactory. Notwithstanding the enormous cost involved, the line was discarded and an effort made to get over the mountains by a different route. Instead of following a zig-zag course, a long detour was made on one side in order to obtain a satisfactory grade, and a doubleline tunnel had to be built. On the Lithgow side there are many tunnels all built to carry a double set of rails. It is only in insignificant parts such as Tasmania, where the traffic is small, that single-line tunnels are used. The contractors, in this instance, should be compelled to state a price at which they would construct tunnels sufficiently wide to carry a double set of rails. The construction of bridges should also receive the serious consideration of the authorities, as a bridge sufficiently wide to carry one set of rails would, comparatively speaking, cost more than one to carry a double line. I have some respect for the qualifications of  Mr. Bell, Mr. Fraser,  and  Mr. Davidson,  but I do not think they are infallible. They have made a great mistake in this case. Many of our large cities were laid out in the belief that they would remain small villages. When Sydney was surveyed no provision was made for wide streets such as we have in Melbourne and in Adelaide. In the planning of Canberra advantage was taken of the knowledge gained by other cities, and in consequence of the wider vision of  Mr. Griffin,  whose opinion was, fortunately, endorsed by the Commonwealth, a magnificent city has been designed. In a continent, such as Australia, consisting of 3,000,000 square miles, with only two persons to each square mile, we must expect enormous progress to be made. In moving the second reading of the Northern Australia Bill, the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  said it was only 100 years since the first white settlement occurred in the Northern Territory. We ought to recognize that, instead of having only two persons to the square mile, as we have to-day, Australia will, in the course of a few years, be as closely populated as America, where there are 120,000,000 in an area not much greater than Australia. It will possibly be as closely populated as portions of the Old World to-day, but long before that time arrives our railway facilities, if they are to be built only to meet present requirements, will prove totally inadequate. We should take the necessary steps to have an inquiry into the necessity for building the tunnels on the Kyogle to South Brisbane railway wide enough to take two sets of rails. It is my opinion that a huge blunder has been made, and that in the not distant future the Commonwealth will be saddled with the very unnecessary expense of having to widen the tunnels on that railway. As the line passes through country which is equal to the best in any other part of the world, its population is likely to be trebled in the next few years, so that there is every possibility that the proposed railway will very soon prove totally inadequate. In these circumstances, I think we should take steps to have the specifications amended, so that we may ascertain what extra cost would be involved in making the tunnels wide enough to carry two sets of rails. [ submit this motion fully believing that I am acting in the best, interests of the Commonwealth. 
I do not think that  Senator Grant  has made those inquiries that ought to be made by an honorable senator before submitting a motion of this description. Under the Grafton to South Brisbane Railway Act, this Parliament gave certain powers to the Railways Commissioners of New South Wales and Queensland, acting in conjunction with the Commissioner of Commonwealth Railways. Section 2 of the agreement ratified by that act provides that a council shall be set  up  consisting of the Chief Commissioner of Railways in New South Wales, the Commissioner of Railways in Queensland, and the Commissioner of Commonwealth Railways, and under section 10 that council is given entire control of all the works contemplated by the agreement and of the expenditure thereon. The council is further given power to determine the order in which, and the terms and the conditions under which, works are to be carried out, and the times at which each portion of the works is to be commenced and completed. 
SenatorGrant.  -  The agreement contains no reference to single-rail tunnels. 
Surely the honorable senator will admit that the tunnels will be portion of the works to be determined by the council of commissioners. He can rest assured that three of the best railway experts in Australia are in control of the work of construction, and that every reasonable precaution has been taken. Had the honorable senator asked the Minister for Works, he might have learned that the question of whether the tunnels should be single or double rail had been given every consideration. 
Evidently the honorable senator has some inside information, but in the public interest I think he ought to have interviewed  Mr. Bell,  Commissioner of Commonwealth Railways, because then he would have learned that every precaution had been taken. The motion claims that lack of foresight has been shown. The honorable senator has a vivid imagination if he thinks that he can tell three such experts as I have mentioned how to build a railway. In this respect I think the Commonwealth Government has shown much wider vision in the development of Australia than has been displayed by any of its predecessors. It has endeavoured to extend the 4-ft. 8½in. gauge for the development of the country. 
That question has been decided after the most careful consideration. The very fact that the honorablesenator has interjected that the decision on the point was not unanimous is conclusive proof that he is aware that the experts have given the matter careful consideration. I shall bring the honorable senator's remarks under the notice of the Minister for Works and Railways  (Mr. Hill),  and if there is anything in them that has not had the consideration of the Commissioners, the Minister will be delighted to call their attention to it. However, I am afraid that he will have some difficulty in discovering anything that has not already had most careful investigation. With this assurance I ask the honorable senator to withdraw his motion; otherwise I must ask the Senate to reject it. 
I desire to bring to the notice of the Senate the fact that in the  Sunday Sun,  a reputable newspaper published in Sydney, which I believe has been circulated among honorable senators during the last day or two- a very serious statement is made regarding an alleged evasion of taxation by wealthy American corporations that are engaged in the production of picture films. If the allegations contained in the article are correct, the Commonwealth Treasury has been very considerably exploited in recent years. The allegations are to the effect that these American corporations have subsidiary Australian companies handling their films here. When those films are sent to Australia, they are invoiced at exceedingly fantastical prices - prices that are very many times in excess of their real value - in order that, at the close of the year's operations, the subsidiary company may show either a loss or a very small profit, instead of an enormous profit. Consequently the income tax that is collected is comparatively very small. I hope that the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  will bring the matter before his colleagues in the Cabinet. The charge is so serious that the Government should institute a full inquiry. The writer of the article points out that a continuance of the position could be obviated by an amendment of the Customs tariff to enable an ad valorem duty, instead of a fixed duty of so much a foot, to be charged. If the allegations are true, that suggestion appears to me to be a reasonable one. 
. -I  shall take an early opportunity to bring to the notice of the Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page)  the statements that have been made by the honorable senator. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I should like to know if the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has yet been furnished with the opinion of the Crown Law officers concerning the recent decision of the High Court with regard to the validity of certain provisions of the Navigation Act. 
The opinion of the Crown Law Office has not yet been circulated among Ministers. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon  notice - 
Have tenders been called for the erection of a post office at Kondinin, Western Australia ? 2.Has any tender been accepted? 
When will a commencement be made with the erection of the building? 
SenatorCRAWFORD. - The answers to the honorable member's questions are as follow: - 
Yes. 
Yes. 3.It is expected that the contractorwil proceed almost immediately. 
I have to report that  Senator Duncan,  having been appointed Acting Government Whip in the Senate, has expressed his desire to be relieved of his duties as aTemporary  Chairman  of Committees. I now lay on the table my warrant appointing  Senator Massy  Greene to act in place of  Senator Duncan  as a Temporary  Chairman  of Committees. 
When this measure was introduced I thought I could see in it the hand of  Mr. Sastri,  that cultured British Indian who, as honorable senators will recall, visited the Commonwealth a few years ago on a mission connected with the civil rights of his countrymen then resident and domiciled in Australia, as well as those who in future might  leave their native land to come to Australia. I thought at first that the measure would open the door too widely to Asiatics. I understand, however, from the Minister's second -reading speech yesterday, that the bill simply proposes to give full status of Commonwealth citizenship to British Indians already domiciled in Australia. As they are in the enjoyment of this privilege in four of the states, apparently (he withholding of the franchise in regard to Commonwealth elections is an anomaly. I soo no reason why it should be denied to thorn, because during their residence in Australia they must have assisted in its development. The Minister has assured tis that tho bill refers only to 2,300 British  Indians  already domiciled in Australia, and that in tie ordinary course of time their number must decrease. So long as the White Australia policy is safeguarded, I see no objection to the measure.  
Tho saving clause in the bill is the application of the Immigration Restriction Act. I understand, from the assurance given by the Minister, that there can be no further addition on the electoral roll to the number of British Indian inhabitants now domiciled in Australia. In these circumstances, I see no option but to support the bill. Brit this measure amends tho Electoral Act, and it is well known that several other important amendments are necessary to correct anomalies. I should- like to know whether steps can bc taken at this stage to effect those amendments. I may  menti 011  only one - the provision in the Electoral Act which renders formal any ballot-paper on 'which the preference of the electors is expressed for twice the number of members required, plus one. It is very advisable that this should be eliminated. In elections where there is a large number of candidates, informal votes play some part, but not nearly so large a part as the description of futile vote known as the exhausted vote. During the last Senate election in Western Australia, on the first count there were 2,000 exhausted votes. On the second count these had increased to over 4,000; and on the third count to over 6,000. There is no provision in the act to remedy that defect. There arc other anomalies which it is not necessary for me to mention at this stage, hut which urgently wy for remedy. Is it possible to insert these amendments in the bill now before the Senate? 
The amendment mentioned by the honorable senator could not be made in connexion with this measure. This bill would have to be withdrawn and a new measure introduced. It has been ruled, over and over again, in the Senate, that there can be no amendments inserted  hi  an amending bill other than those which relate to the amendment of tho principal act for which the bill provides. 
As one who is in touch with Indian affairs I desire to support this bill. While it seems a small concession to enfranchise 2,000 Indians resident in this country, this measure of justice has been too long delayed. It has been agreed to by the Primo Ministers of the- dominions at two or three imperial conferences. A certain amount of friction exists at the present moment between Indians and the British authorities in India,  and this small concession by Australia will tend to  promoto  a good feeling among the more liberal-minded Indians who are struggling to put their country on the same political basis as Australia. 
'Under British laws some of them do, and some do not, but an agitation is taking place on (.hat subject. The White Australia policy has  been very much misunderstood by a large number of Indians, who, however, are mow commencing to recognize that our attitude is dictated purely byeconomic considerations. The majority of the more intelligent people of India are quite satisfied that Australia has a right to do what she likes within her own borders. Thegivingof the franchise to Indians resident in Australia will have a very good effect upon the feelingtowards Australia of Indians generally. The effect of the measure in Australia will be infinitesimal. We alsohave to bear in mind that the position in the East is notsatisfactory, particularly in regard to the colour question. I am not pursuing that subject, but should any trouble arise in that connexion in fee future, the bill cannot have other than a good effect - a better effect, perhaps, than the majority of honorable senators, who are not in touch with Indian affairs, realize. I support the bill from a British, an Australian, and a democratic point of view. It will give the franchise to those Indians who have been good citizens of Australia. The majority of them have reared families in this country, and have taken a practical interest in its development. On broad humanitarian lines, too, these people should be enfranchised. 
Australia is exceedingly fortunate by comparison with the United States of America, in not having a colour problem. For that we are indebted to the late  Sir Henry  Parkes, who, in defiance of Downing-street, laid down the principle  Salus populiest suprema lex.  But for him and. the stand he took, I have not the least doubt but thatthe Commonwealth to-day would be peopled largely by residents of Asia. He defied the British authorities, and put an abrupt stop to the populating of this country by Asiatics, with the result that the Asiatic population of the Commonwealth to-day is very small. The bill before the Senate applies only to these Indians that have been resident in Australia for a large number of years. I assume that the Government has no intention of relaxing the provisions of acts relating to Asiatics. 
In those circumstances, and in view of the small number of Indians in this country, I favour the extension to them of the franchise enjoyed by other residents of the Commonwealth. 
Furtheramendments of the Electoral Act are being considered by the Government, and the anomaly mentioned by  Senator Kingsmill  is being inquired into to see to what extent it can be removed. I should be glad if he, or other honorable senators who are aware of anomalies in the law, would bring them under my notice. So far, the only anomaly of which I have been apprized relates to the exhaustive ballot. The representations of honorable senators will be consideredby the Government, with a view to the passing of further amending legislation before the end of the session. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment; report adopted. 
The clause in the principal act which this bill seeks to amend is very clumsily drafted. It required people engaged in litigation to do an impossible thing by stating the amount of interest on a judgment before the judgment was satisfied. It ordered that the interest should be stated in the body of the writ, forgetting that the amount could not be computed until the judgment had been satisfied. The bill will remove that anomaly, and will make it as plain as legal language can make it, that the interest can only be determined when the judgment is satisfied. That being so, I shall support the second reading of the bill. I am not very fond of law or legal procedure. I know very little of either, and keep as far away from them as possible. The two professions I like to avoid are the legal and the medical professions. 
If I keep away from the medical profession, I shall probably dodge the undertaker for a longer time that I otherwise could. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment; report adopted. 
At the outset I desire to compliment the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  on the able manner in which he moved the second reading of this bill. He proved that he had a thorough knowledge of the subject, and dealt with it in such a way that honorable senators present could readily appreciate the objects of the measure. Whilst I compliment the right honorable senator on the way in which he introduced tin's bill, I regret that I am called upon at such short notice to proceed with the discussion of a subject which is quite new to Australia, and of vast importance to the Commonwealth. The Minister courteously supplied me with a proof of his second-reading speech, but it was quite impossible for me during the limited time at my disposal this morning to . thoroughly study the proposal. With that handicap I shall endeavour to discuss the bill, but I think it would be wise if the Minister asked the Senate to agree to postpone the discussion of the second' reading until the Governments of Queensland and Western Australia have at least had an opportunity to peruse the bill. Senators received copies only yesterday, and although the subject is of great importance to the whole of Australia, it is of even greater interest to the states I have mentioned, affecting as it does the control of portions of their territory. Honorable senators representing Western Australia and Queensland will, I believe, desire some expression of opinion from the Governments of those states before they proceed to debate the bill, and probably before the committee stage  is reached the Governments of the states mentioned will have had an opportunity to submit their opinions of it. The measure will, doubtless, be passed by Parliament, although not exactly in ite present form; but it cannot become operative until the Governments and Parliaments of Western Australia and Queensland have concurred. 
I was under the impression that .the Governments and Parliaments of Western Australia, and Queensland would have to concur before the measure became operative. Irrespective of the form in which it is passed it will vitally affect the states mentioned, and, consequently, we must be very careful in our consideration of its provisions. Iu moving the second reading of "the bill, tho Minister referred to the conditions in the Territory 100 years ago, but I desire to briefly refer to the position which has existed since 1911, when the Commonwealth Government assumed the responsibility of developing that vast area in the north. Despite the excuses', if they may be so termed, which the Minister offered yesterday for the non-success during this period, it must be admitted that failure has followed in the footsteps of governmental effort. To-day the Northern Territory stands as a monument of the failure of governments to effectively develop it. In making that statement I am alluding not only to the present Government, but to all Governments which have endeavoured to tackle this vexed question during the fourteen years we have been responsible for its control. We are all, in a sense, guilty, because, as members of Parliament, we have to share the responsibility. The monument of failure is there for the world to see, and proves the necessity of introducing a change in its system of government, if the natural resources of that great country are to be effectually developed. I admit the necessity of a change, but whether the method proposed is, or is not, the right one to adopt, has yet to be determined. As we have sometimes been rightly accused of hurriedly passing legislation, and later regretting it, we should not show undue haste in disposing of this bill. It should he viewed from every possible angle, because, whilst I recognize thenecessity for such a scheme, I also realize the dangers accruing from the hasty passage of such legislation. It is proposed to appoint a commission, consisting of three members, who will control approximately 500,000 square miles of country. The right honorable gentleman informed us yesterday that one of the causes of the present unsatisfactory conditions in the Northern Territory was the distance at which it was situated from the seat of government, and the necessity of reference having to be made by the Administrator in the Northern Territory to the responsible authorities in Melbourne. If this measure is passed in its present form, we shall be repeating the mistakes of the past, as all important matters of policy will still have to be referred to the seat of government at Melbourne or, later, at Canberra. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I move - 
That inasmuch as the Navigation Act imposes severe and burdensome restrictions on trade with Western Australia, and also in the coastal trade of that state, the Senate is of opinion that - 
The compulsory clauses of that act relating to trade and commerce be repealed until such time as the various interests engaged in the coastal trade are willing to accept the same terms and conditions, no more and no less, as those governing the activities and operations of the general body of citizens throughout the Commonwealth, or until the law compels the acceptance of such conditions. 
That this resolution be transmitted to the House of Representatives with a request for its concurrence therein. 
This is a humble attempt of mine to bring under the notice of the Commonwealth Parliament, as well as the people of Australia, the handicap imposed on the people of Western Australia as one of the results of their entering federation. Not long ago we had from the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Gardiner)  the very definite pronouncement that, as a result of his impartial observation in going about the Commonwealth, he had come to the deliberate conclusion that the states which had suffered most as a result of entering federation were those which had the smallest populations. I am sure an . honorable senator occupying his responsible position would not make such a declaration unless he felt the full import of his words. No one can gainsay its truth. The honorable senator had no purpose to serve other than to give true testimony to the position as he saw it. The people of Western Australia entered the federation whole-heartedly and unreservedly, with every intention of making sacrifices so that it might be a success. I cite one instance of their self-sacrifice. When the first Commonwealth Parliament was elected in 1900, they sent a delegation of men to the Senate which, with one exception, had only one attitude as to what should be the fiscal policy of the Commonwealth. As every one knows, Western Australia, in common with other outlying portions of the Commonwealth, stood to gain more by the adoption of a freetrade policy, but quite unmindful of its own interests, like many other parts of the Commonwealth - it was not the only state that made sacrifices by entering the federation - it sent a delegation to this Senate pledged to an effective form of protection. I remember being one of the delegation sent to this Senate when the tariff was being revised in 1907. On that occasion the state of New South Wales sent six honorable senators here as out-and-out op- ponents of the policy of protection, which was then gaining a foothold in Australia. We told those honorable senators repeatedly that the people of New South Wales were mistaken, and as events turned out we were right when we said that the wrong men had been chosen to represent the state. Yet such was the position then that the people of the mother stale, exercising the freest franchise in the world, sent six men here to oppose a national policy which every one now acknowledges was the most suitable for them.  Senator Sir Albert  Gould,  Senator Gray,  and  Senator Pulsford  stood here in this chamber as a solid phalanx against the adoption of a policy that has served the Commonwealth so well, while the representatives of Western Australia crossed the floor in order to nullify their votes. I mention this in order to show that I arn warranted in saying that in those days Western Australia sent to this Parliament a delegation whose purpose was to further the interests of the nation as a whole, and not those of the state itself; because Western Australia was the last, and least, to benefit. The proof of the pudding is in the eating thereof. The making of it counts for nothing. We are now eating the pudding, but very few crumbs are left for the people in the western state. In its wisdom, this Parliament sought to carry out an all-round policy of protection. 
Every self-respecting community must make some attempt to protect its standards of living. We are living in an age when we must preserve our standards, be they ever so slightly elevated above those of our neighbours. It is not an ideal condition of affairs, but we are obliged to get down to practical politics. Every nation in the world ,today that is anxious to create and  maintain a set of conditions superior to those qf any other people is compelled to do things which cut against the grain, but which., if left .undone, would cause it bo run the risk of having its standards lowered to those of its neighbours. Accordingly the 'Commonwealth of Australia adapted a policy of .protection, and, as a whole, prospered  Tinder  Lt. The attempt of T.902 to protect the -young industries of the country was but a feeble one. 'That of 1907 was much stronger. It was not until 19.20 that a  really  firm effort was made to afford protection to Australia's industries. The average rate of protection was increased over the period of years from about 15 per cent, to about 50 per .cent. I believe it now stands at about 25 per cent., which is a degree of protection far in advance of what was afforded in the early days of federation. At the same time Parliament also sought to extend an equal benefit to persons engaged in the maritime trade. In pre-federation  days  those who were -engaged in this trade had to compete in the open market, but, as a result of what was done by this Parliament, they  were  put in a very much better position. Previously they  had  enjoyed no protection, except what  waa  afforded to them 'by organization among themselves,  but  all  that  was changed when federation came about,  and  it  was  changed in a  way that,  in my opinion, placed them  isa  an altogether too favorable position. Instead of being exposed to competition such as faces . every other person engaged in industry, a complete shield was thrown around them to give them absolute security from all forms of external competition. I have always protested against this. If a man who builds a vessel has' to be content with a certain degree of protection, say 35 per cent., and can thrive and prosper under it, why is it that when a vessel is launched its owner, in using that vessel, can enjoy an absolutely prohibitive, tariff against all forms of external competition? What is the difference between a shipbuilder and a shipowner ? They are both citizens of the Commonwealth, both equal before the law, and due to get the same consideration extended to them. Yet the laws of this country,  hut  not with my vote or my consent, go to the utmost extent to give the owners of vessels favours far and above those given to any one else in the community. The result is that people living in the outlying portions of Australia, particularly the greater part of Western Australia, which is not connected by railways, are being penalized by the operation of the excessive protection given to one element in the industrial field,. While this Parliament has piled up Customs duties, so far as the field of industry is concerned, it hae said to persons engaged in navigation - " You are unlike any one else. We shall give you &amp; protection that we do not give to any .one else." Why is it done in their case? And, if it is done in their case, why not in the case of .all other persons engaged in -.the various fields of industry,? Why not give to the shipbuilder the protection that the shipowner enjoys ? Why not go a step further and give it "also to the man who is mining the .ore which is converted into steel for the rose of the shipbuilder ? I am pointing out the absurdity .of giving to one set of people in the industrial sphere an unfair .and unwarranted .advantage, the ill effects of which are reflected in every sphere of activity, . particularly in the outlying parts of the Commonwealth. It is not fair play to single out one -element .in the community for special favours, and ask the rest of the community to pay for them. That is movement in ,a circle, and progress cannot be made exoe.pt in a straight line. There are some people who have to work harder and longer than others;  there are- vast areas- that; are untenanted and undeveloped, because of. our ineffective, unsatisfactory, and costly steamship service. Is it not time= that that position was altered ? The chickens are coming home to roost; stagnation exists where formerly at the least a moderate degree of progress was made. Western Australia, is raising, its voice in protest against the injustice it is suffering. This Parliament appointed a royal, commission to inquire into the effect of the Navigation Act on trade, industry, and development in Australia. The members of that commission arrived at very deliberate conclusions. It is a pity that the commissioners did not present a unanimous report. I do not, however, find ' much fault with that, because, although there is a division of opinion among them upon certain points, they are unanimous in believing that Western Australia has been adversely affected by the operations of the Navigation Act. 
They are unanimous in saying that a wrong exists', and. that, a change should take place, but they are mot unanimous regarding the methods, that should ' be adopted for bringing that about. Although they suggest different remedies, that does not weaken my argument. Their reports referred to the position of the primary producer in Western Australia. The primary producer is virtually the backbone of the country. Everybody will admit that without him - or with him, doing badly - our inland' towns-, would fade, railway lines wouldrust,, and out coastal towns and cities would disappear.  His  work is- too long and too continuous for him to give any thought to Arbitration. Court awards- or the efforts of those who would override the laws of the country. Were it not for his- labour all the idle gossipmongers  in the cities  would  be sent about their business. They would be in a much worse- plight if he did not hold the- fort", and see that the country progressed. Recently rain did not fall for a few weeks in Western Australia, and the- city  gossipers  grew nervously anxious, which led' me- to remark, " The cocky is, then,, of some consequence to this  country  ? " These city dwellers know that if the primary producer does not get the rain- that will fructify the earth and enable- him to- get something from it, their condition will be  far  more serious than it is.. I do- not need to emphasize that point; it is- so evident that it can be grasped by the intelligence of a school boy. If it were not for th&amp; man who* turns his back upon the sea coast and. the- false allurements, of the cities, to suffer all the hardships of the interior, how rauch prosperity would wa enjoy  I  Being human, of course,, he has some- faults;, but, notwithstanding those, he is the man- to whom we have to look for our progress1. When his welfare is net jealously guarded, when he is not given every encouragement, it will be a sad day fox Australia. Goldsmith, in styling him the " country's pride," merely said what everybody knows, and what has. been a  trueism  throughout the centuries. The husbandman knows very little about laws, and cares less, because he is too busy with his own work. He is not of those who grope along the city fronts, and have too- much- time- for " chin-wagging." He is the exemplary citizen; and1 the basis of all prosperity. When his work is done he is so tired that he must immediately seek the rest that will enable- him to- continue on the following morning. Clocks and watches- do not regulate his movements-; he works when he is able to work, and knocks off only when he can do no more. If the average farm in- Australia were worked by modem industrial rules our primary products would be much dearer than they are. If wheat and butter, apples and other fruits, were produced according to- the standards of an . eighthour day or a 4!4-hour week, could those commodities be purchased at their pre. sent prices? Certainly not.  They  would be about double the price that they now are. 
No; I am opposed to an- eight-hour day for an occupation that can reasonably afford to work longer.  Mr. Ramsay  MacDonald, leader of the British Labour party, said on one occasion that you should not impose upon- employment conditions that would  ruin enterprise. My definition1 of an eight-hour day is that for- some callings it is- too. long, and for other callings it is far too short. How can we expect to compete with- other countries if it is- made- a hard-and-fast nile for every industry ? I can see  Senator Findley  looking at me. He might as well try to put a quart of water into a pint pot as to endeavour to make Australia succeed under those conditions. Why do honorable senators opposite advocate such doctrines ? It is because they seek popularity from the unthinking multitude. Whenever these people who are so fond of " chin-wagging " attemptto work a piece of land, however small it is, or wherever it may be situated, they drop the red-rag argument, and say, " I was very young when I talked about the brotherhood of man, the 44- hour week, socialism in our time, and the principles of liberty, equality, and fraternity." They change their policy instantly. 
It is quite true that I have changed my opinion of the " goner.oseed " Labour party. There is no hope for the man who does not- change. If the honorable senator belongs . to the latter class then there is no hope for him. Ever since Simon de Montfort wrung the privilege from an unwilling British sovereign the purpose of Parliament has been to effect a mental change in those who could be changed - not men of the type of  Senator Findley,  but men who, under stress of reason, and because of the force of stronger arguments, are prepared to say, " I have made a mistake; I have trodden the wrong, track; the opinions expressed by my opponent, even though I do not like him, are sound." If minds were not changed parliamentary institutions would be a failure. Parliament exists merely- to bring about change. I again remind  Senator Findley  of the truism, " There is nothing so unchangeable as change." There can, however, be no change in truth; it remains for all time, and has stood the test of every age. There is no change in honesty and in morality. It is  Senator Findley  who has changed; he has wandered into wayward paths, whilst I have kept to the straight path. If anything has changed it is the latter-day Labour party. It has wandered from the path of political rectitude, the straight path in which its feet were once planted. 
I like to hear honorable senators opposite snapping. There is an old Chinese proverb, ' ' When you fling a stone into a herd of swine the one that squeals has been hit." But I must return to a consideration of the position that is occupied in society by the primary producer, and to certain happenings in Western Australia. It is an unbalanced state of society that has busy bees and city idlers side by side. 
At one time they did bear their share of the burden; but when they drank in the advice of men like  Senator Findley  they adopted a different attitude. The honorable senator advocates a 44-hour week for certain men, whilst other  poor devils are compelled  to  work 64 hours a week. Does he consider that that is an equal distribution of the burden ? He and those who think as he does address the primary producer as " Dear comrade " ! ' The irony of it ! As I understand the meaning of the word, a " comrade " is a man who will bear with another an equal share of his burden ; he will not look for the light end of the stick as the city dwellers do. To-day it is a fact that the economic pyramid has been inverted, and is standing on its apex. Twenty years ago that was not so at all. Fifteen years ago it was less so than it is now. When, many years ago, I landed in Queensland, the first question I asked was, " Where is the place in which I can make the bestprogress? " The advice I received was - as Horace Greeley said years ago in America - " Go west, young man." I was told to " get into the interior, where competition is less keen." What is the position to-day? The further you go into the country the worse you fare. In the cities there is a manufactured, standard of comfort that has been brought about by the ceaseless effort to improve the standard on the fringe of the continent, whilst at the same time neglecting the interior. Is it not a fact that the further you go inland the further you get from the chance of improving your lot? Nobody can deny that that is so. The Premier of Western Australia,  Mr. Phillip  Collier, had something to say about this matter, but he left it to some one else to point the moral. 
I have no doubt  Senator Needham  will recall his words. In a burst of candour he confessed that the conductors on tram cars in the streets of Perth were getting wages as good as those enjoyed by men in the 2,000-ft. level of the Great Boulder mine. He did not mention, however, that this happy state was brought about as the result of agitation' after agitation, year in and year out, and that it was enjoyed largely at the expense of the pioneering elements in the interior. If the miner could sell his gold, the farmer his wheat, the sweated dairyman his milk, and the orchardist his fruit, at double the present prices, and could tell the consumers to starve until they paid him his price, then things would be evened up, and there could be no complaint. But the trouble is that these primary producers cannot go on strike and levy involuntary tribute on the community. 

 - Mr. Collier well knows that this artificial levering up of conditions along the coastal fringe of Australia is going on whilst the interior is being sadly neglected. We shall never make real progress in that fashion. 
I used sound arguments, and they were successful, as the honorable senator knows. I never was, and never will be, associated with . the policy which  Senator Needham,  by his silence, is endorsing. I successfully urged men who were on strike against an award to return to work. The embryo " redraggers " of that time sought to trample me down, but failed. I never will be associated with any movement which, to improve the industrial conditions of a section of the people, seeks first an award of the Arbitration Court, and, if it is not satisfactory, repudiates it entirely. This policy, by the way, has never been condemned by  Senator Needham.  He has never condemned a strike in his life, for the simple reason that he knows he would lose votes by it. I am all the time condemning strikes, as I know to my cost. I do not believe in this levering up of industrial social conditions along the coastal fringe of Australia to an uneconomic level whilst those of the interior are allowed to stagnate. This so-called prosperity along the whole of the coastal fringe of the Commonwealth whilst the interior has been allowed to stagnate or empty itself of population, is counterfeit progress. 
The honorable senator who interjects is a young man. He takes good care to hug the coastal fringe of the Commonwealth. He has no wish to go into the interior. He and his colleagues are satisfied with this counterfeitprosperity. 
These men are prepared to use the Arbitration Court when it suits them, and when it does not satisfy their demands they believe in and advocate the policy of strikes, which, as I have shown, merely create an unwholesome and uneconomic condition of society. 
I can assure the honorable senator that if ever he  gets  land he will have to ' ' graft ' ' for hip living. I am afraid that is the trouble with him. It is less irksome to get blisters on the tongue than blisters on the hand, and these gentlemen prefer to blister their tongues in political life than blister their hands in the real work of developing this country. Let the honorable senator make no mistake about it. He can get as much land as he wants in Western Australia. For a £10 note he can get 1,000 acres if he is prepared to hold it for five years, and by that time the land, if worked and not merely looked upon, will give a living. Does he really believe that he cannot get land? Again, let me say, if every other element could strike and arbitrate alternately, then all would be well. But they cannot, and thai is where the national mischief comes in. 
The primary producer of Western Australia is a fellow Australian, and is entitled to every consideration in this Parliament. In no part of Australia is the man on the land suffering more than the primary producer in the state which I represent in this chamber. I find, according to the evidence given by  Mr. B.  L. Murray, the managing director of the Westralian Farmers Limited, before the Navigation 'Commission j that the freight on necessary commodities for the operation farm work is 42s. 6d. a ton from Newcastle to Fremantle., as compared with 38s. a ton from London or New York. In other words, the farmers of New South Wales can purchase the same articles at the same price in Newcastle, but have not to bear the freight burden of 42s. 6d. a ton imposed on primary producers in Western Australia. 
The  DEPUTY  PKESID.ENT  (Senator Newland).  - Order!  Senator Hannan  must address the Chair, and desist from interjections when requested to do so by  the Chair. 
Tie freight from Newcastle to Fremantle is too great for the primary producer who is endeavouring to win a living from the lighter and sandy soils in the agricultural areas of my state. 
The same witness told the commission that the cost of fertilizers in Western Australia is 7s. a ton more than to the primary producers in South Australia. Honorable senators should bear in mind that the great bulk of the agricultural lands in Western Australia consists of light and sandy soil. I regret to .say this of my state, but I am here to bear witness to the truth. Everybody knows that the land is very patchy. A comparatively small area is first class land. The great bulk of it is second class, so it is all the more imperative that it should be treated generously with artificial fertilizers if the producer is to have any chance of success. Any effort to prevent struggling primary producers from joining the ranks, of the unemployed in our cities should be encouraged by every person who has the interests of the Commonwealth at heart. Only the man who wears the shoe knows where it pinches. When, therefore, we are trying to make productive an immense tract of agricultural country capable of producing anything up to 90,000,000 bushels per  annum  we should not be -rebuffed. As a wheat-producing state, Western Australia nas a  splendid  chance, if given fair treatment, to beat the eastern states. But the primary producer must not be so burdened as to believe that -he has no chance of success ; he must not be forced -into thinking that -he had -better get back to the cities, and search for work in secondary industries. I tell -honorable senators that the position of the primary producer in Western Australia demands the serious attention of this Parliament. The lighter and drier soils in that state present the hardest proposition I know of, tout they will respond to treatment with .artificial fertilizers, and give a fair living to industrious men. The best asset that a country can possess is the man who is striving to make good on such land. Why, then, should the producers in my state be saddled with this burden of excessive shipping freights, and this extra 7s. a ton on fertilizers, as compared with farmers in the eastern states of the Commonwealth ? Every wellaffected Australian citizen should be prepared to do all that is possible to right this grievance. It is as plain as the noonday sun. The prosperity or failure of our primary producers will inevitably be reflected in the financial position of the Commonwealth. I can prove what I am saying about the injury done in many ways to our primary industries by the Navigation Act.  Mr.. D.  G. Humphries, general manager of the state .sawmills in his evidence before the commission, stated that the act was seriously affecting the timber industry of Western Australia.  Mr. Humphries,  I remind the Senate, was the responsible mouthpiece, appointed by a Labour Government, and he was speaking about a Labour enterprise. The freight rate on timber from Fremantle to Adelaide, he told the commission, -had risen from 16s. a load of 50 cubic feet in 1909 to 35s. 5d. a load of 50 cubic feet in 1923., representing an increase of over 100 per cent, in fourteen years. He went on to say that, in consequence of the higher  freights, the state saw-mills were not selling the quantity which otherwise would have been sold, and he attributed the rise in freights to the operation of the Navigation Act. If the timber industry had not suffered from this rise in freight, I would say, well and good. Perhaps the act could be justified if no injury were done to other elements in the community by the improved conditions brought about as the result of its operations. If, on the other hand, an established industry were injured, then the position could not be sound. I turn now to another section of the report, signed by Senators Duncan and Elliott. On page 87 it is stated - 
Nobody will deny that the primary producers of Western Australia are handicapped by having to pay higher freights on the means of production, but it may be argued that the reason for this is the geographical position of the state in relation to the chief manufacturing centres of Australia. Another factor which must have an influence on freights to and from Western Australia is that the imports to that state from the eastern states are more than three times the exports. The result is that there is shortage in back loading from Western Australia, which considerably adds to the cost of sea carriage. 
This . presents to the student another phase of the difficulties encountered by Western Australia. Not being in the position to sell as much as we buy, our economic position is still further complicated. For  every  £3 worth of goods that Western Australia buys from the eastern states - purchases which serve to keep the people of those states in lucrative jobs - the eastern states buy only £1 worth of goods from Western Australia. The handicap is more severe 0L Western Australia than on any other part of the Commonwealth. The report, in explaining how the restrictive clauses of the Navigation Act hamper the primary producer of Western Australia in fulfilling his requirements, says - 
The Navigation Act limits the carriage of these requirements to ships registered under the act, i.e., the ships of the interstate shipping companies. The carriage of his supplies are subject to their pleasure, their convenience, and their demands. He may consider himself unjustly treated by these companies, but the Navigation Act says that he cannot use any other means of sea carriage. 
I am reading one of the intelligent minority reports. It proceeds - 
He cannot, as the fruit-grower of Southern Queensland did in a similar emergency, use the railway as an outlet. His geographical position precludes this. It is not to be wondered, therefore, that the primary producer of Western Australia complains bitterly of the provisions of the Navigation Act which pre vents him from using the ma,ny oversea vessels which call at Western Australia  en route  to the eastern states. That he cannot do so does to an extent impose a brake upon his progress and development. The Commonwealth 'certainly has the constitutional, but has it the moral right to impose this limitation upon him? The development of Western Australia, and the settlement of its vast areas, are matters of vital moment to Australia. 
I now wish to refer to the timber industry, in which so many supporters of the latter-day Labour party are foundThe report continues - 
Your Commissioners are of the opinion that the conditions in the timber industry in regard to shipping space is a further exemplification of the position as set out under the heading of " Primary Production." The timber industry of Western Australia is not developing as it should, because of the " prohibition " clauses of the Navigation Act. Some war must be found of adequately protecting the shipping industry in conformity with the declared national policy, without at the same time unduly injuring other industries. Your Commissioners are confident that this can be done if the proposal outlined in " General Recommendations " is adopted. 
Now I turn to the views of honorable gentlemen of the opposite political complexion. Honorable senators will notice that I am quoting the views of all three sections of the commission. Notwithstanding the variety of opinions contained in the report, it is a valuable document, because it shows independence of thought, and a man of judgment can easily determine whether the opinions expressed are political or otherwise. Parliament is a very desirable institution, for it enables these things to be ventilated in public, instead of being dealt with in dark comers or behind closed doors. Parliament is ar. enemy of the caucus. . A glorious fact is- that everything that takes place in the public life of this country may be brought forward in this public chamber and examined from every angle. Some people would prefer that not to be so, and would surround the discussion of this matter with .a wall 4 feet thick, with iron doors and  unpickable  locks. By contrast with Australia there is Russia,, with which the notorious  Mr. J.  S. Garden is linked up. Who has ever heard of a general election in Russia? The most delightful part of the commission's report contains the opinions of  Mr. Anstey, Mr. Yates,  and  Senator McHugh,  whose findings were- 
The Navigation Act has not retarded the trade, industry, or development of any of the states of theCommonwealth. 
The statements made by the Tariff Board in its annual report of June, 1923, in relation to the effect of the Navigation Act on industry and production, are erroneous, and were made without inquiry into the facts. 
The decline of the ports of Albany and Geraldton is not due to the Navigation Act, as alleged; such ports began to decline many years before the operation of theact. 
Although the Navigation Act does not apply to certain "black "-manned vessels trading on the north-west coast of Western Australia, there is no increased development, nor increase in production and population in that portion of Australia. 
I and others who are more familiar with Western Australia than these three honorable gentlemen, worthy though they may be, know that but for that intermittent service of " black "-manned boats to the north-west, there would be a positive decline of development in that area. The settlers who are there are mostly kept there by that line, against which these three honorable gentlemen raise so many objections. I wish I had the power of the last trumpet to resound throughout Australia the following passage from the report :  - 
The decline of exports from Western Australia is in the overseas trade, to which the Navigation Act does not apply. The increase is in the interstate trade, to which the act does apply. 
Here we have at last a bit of unconscious truth thrown at us. It is admitted that the trade of Western Australia has declined in the one field where it should prosper. The explanation of that decline in the export trade, which is found in another part of the report, is the undue handicap and restrictions imposed upon the primary producers by the Navigation Act. Western Australia, of all the states, is the only essentially producing state, and in that state there is a decline, while, in the others, there is an increase. While there was a steady upward tendency in the export trade of Australia, there was a steady downward tendency in that of Western Australia. One of the causes of this extraordinary condition of affairs is that the man in the interior of Western Australia has not a fair chance owing totheNavigation 
Act. When these unwilling witnesses say that the export trade of Western Australia has fallen off, who dare contradict them? They are stating, of course, a fact, and a fact that has a cause, which should be removed. 
Is there anything plainer than that those engaged in the export trade are handicapped or are losing money ? Otherwise they would at least hold their own. If the honorable senator will travel through Western Australia he will be impressed, as I have been in that state and in Queensland, by the large area of primeval forest that he will see. Any well-intentioned citizen would be prompted by the thought, Why are there no people here? Can  Senator McHugh  say there is no room for them ? Nonsense ! The great majority of the people of Western Australia are only on the coastal fringe, and mother nature is bursting with a desire for men to relieve her of her bounteous resources, which she offers for men's use and benefit. Man is nob coming forward because of the discouragement of the Navigation Act and other manufactured burdens. Instead he stays east, mainly in the cities. He does not come forward to increase the yield of primary produce. Yet there are people who shut theireyes to these facts, and say that Western Australia ought to be content. Content with what? With a state of stagnation? There is great need for a remedy, unless we want to see the time when the citizens of that part of the country will be kept poor in order to supply others with luxuries. There is everywarrant for honorable senators to ask themselves, Have we not made the Navigation Act too exclusive? Have we not given to the ship-owners and the seamen privileges they should not enjoy - privileges for which the most ardent and clamorous protection-mad citizen has never asked ? Actually we have given the shipowners and seamen prohibition. No ship can enter the Australian trade without a licence. While we are content to give to the manufacturer of hats, boots, clothes, and other necessaries of life a degree of protection equivalent to the difference between the cost ofproduction in Australia and elsewhere, we say to those engaged in the maritime trade. " We give you the trade exclusively . " I should like to know why we have done that. - [Extension  of time granted.]  In submitting the motion I am afforded an opportunity to state some of the difficulties under which the people of Westtern Australia are labouring. A debate on this question will, I hope, be the means of opening the eyes of some honorable senators to its political, economic, and industrial phases, which in the past they have been in the habit of conveniently ignoring. It is my duty to bring forward thesefacts, and if I have succeeded in opening only the corners of their eyes I shall have done some good. Is it not possible for us to come to some agreement on this question? Honorable senators opposite know that they are wrong, but they will not admit it. Surely they realize that the ground upon which they stand is insecure, and are beginning to say to themselves, "These foundations which we thought were of granite do not sustain us." They are allowing questions of this kind to pass untested and without discussion. Under the provisions of the Navigation Act one section of the community is being penalized in a most pronounced manner in order that another may derive advantage. The manager of the Western Australian State Steamship Service - which is controlled by a Labour Government - appeared before the Navigation Commission, and stated that although he had to run state shipsin competition with ships manned by black labour, he considered the latter necessary if the people were to remain in the north-west. This gentleman welcomed the presence on the Western Australian coast of ships manned by black labour. He personally did not want them to be manned by such labour, but at the same time, he did not want the hardy dwellers in the north-west to think they were neglected and forgotten, and were only of use when taxes want paying. It would be interesting to know what the members of the Labour party have to say in that regard. The manager of the Western Australian stateowned ships voluntarily stepped into the arena and testified to the advantages of the service provided by those vessels, Without them, he said, it would he diffi cult to say what the effect on the state would be. I leave the matter in the hands of the Senate, believing that the whole question will receive sympathetic consideration, and that prompt actionwillbe taken. This Chamber was established to ensure that no intentional wrong should be done to any section of the community. I have proved that a manifest wrong is being done to a most deserving section of our people, and it is our duty to utilize all the lawful means at our disposal to rectify it. Settlers in other parts of the Commonwealth are also facing adversity through the same cause, but their case will doubtless he put by those whose duty it is to assist them. I have shown the manner in which the primary producers in Western Australia are handicapped as the result of the operations of the Navigation Act, and I earnestly trust that the law will be amended in the direction I have indicated. I submit the motion believing that it is time the act was amended so that those engaged in the shipping industry shall not be placed in a more advantageous position than those employed in other important industries. It is our duty to give a fair deal to all. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilson)  adjourned. 
I desire to announce to the Senate that I have received the following communication from  Senator DrakeBrockman  :  - 
Ibeg to request that I may be allowed to resign my membership of the Standing Orders Committee. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Whether the  Government intends to re submit for consideration  of the Senate the  reciprocal trade arrangements between Australia  and  Canada? 
If so, in view of the fact  that the Senate's  assent was  obtained on the statement that the treaty  had  to be accepted as a whole or  not  at all, and that the Canadian Parliament has varied the agreement  as  assented to by the Senate,  will  the Government re-submit the agreement  in such  a form as  will  enable the Senate to reconsider  the  items? 
The alterations and additions to the treaty will be submitted to Parliament. 
.- I move- 
That the bill be now renda second time. 
This bill contains two provisions, one being of a machinery character and the other embracing an important change of policy. The first proposal is to omit from the original act the definition of ''the Minister." As the Acts Interpretation Act now provides a definition of " the Minister," it is unnecessary to have one in the Northern Territory Administration Act. 
The second proposal is to repeal section 11 of the principal act, which reads as follows : - 
No Crown lands  in  the Territory shall be  sold  or disposedofany estate of freehold except  in  pursuance of some contract entered  into  before the commencement of  this act. 
The Government proposes to repeal that provision in order to permit of ah ordinance being brought in providing for the granting of freeholds for certain classes of land under conditions to be laid down. It is intended by the Government that a freehold title shall be granted under certain conditions in respect of agricultural lands and town lands, but not in respect of pastoral lands. There are different opinions regarding the advisability of the Government, iu the name  of  the people, parting with the freehold of the land ; but I think that it is now generally admitted - even by those who at one time may have held strong views upon land nationalization - that the power of Parliament to tax land is equivalent to tho leasehold system, since Parliament, if it so desires, may take the whole economic rent  or  the land. from that, point of view, even iu respect of freehold lauds, Parliament; is really the landlord. The Northern Territory is the very lust place in which wo should institute an experiment to determine (he relative merits of the freehold and leasehold systems. From the point of view  of  the agriculturist, or even of thi town dweller, it is less attractive than any of the states of the Union. Western. Australia and Queensland offer far greater attractions, especially to the married mar), than does so remote a pari: of the Commonwealth as the Northern Territory. In Queensland and Western Australia, as. indeed, in all the states to-day, a person who desires to engage in agriculture can, if he has the means, obtain a freehold  whilst in (his, the least attractive portion of the Commonwealth, the law prevent the acquisition of a freehold. The Government feels that there is a chance i« develop agriculture in the Northern Territory if the right course is adopted. When dealing with another measure, I spoke of the valuable assistance that can be given by means of the provision of roads, railways, and kindred services. But something more is wanted. The man who settles on the land in. the Northern Territory will face difficulties equal to, if no greater than, those encountered in other parts of the Commonwealth. Therefore, his financial position must be considered. In 90 cases out of 100, especially in tfes: earlier years of his settlement, he will have to approach some financial institution to obtain advances, or relief of some kind. Imagine the reception which would bc given to such a settler who wen: to any of our banking institutions to obtain an advance on the security of a leasehold, in order that he might cultivate it ! Many of us know from bitter experience that it is not easy to obtain advances even on freehold land, but it is absolutely impossible to do so in respect to leasehold land. Country lands are regarded less favorably by bankers than are town lands. It is unfortunate that it should be so, but the fact remains that bankers seem to prefer the security of town rather than rural lands. Anil ye; in the Northern Territory, where settle ment is so unattractive, we have by our legislation imposed upon settlers this double disadvantage. We have said that they shall not be entitled to a freehold; and not having a freehold they cannot obtain the advances that are necessary in the early days of their industry. In the earlier years of tho development of thTerritory, we cannot expect that oventown lauds will attract the capitalist In all probability, only men of small means will be attracted by them, and we want such men to take their wives and families with them. Wc do not desire th« Territory to be settled by mcn who leave their wives and families in other parts o&gt; the Commonwealth. We want a resident, and not a migratory population, in the Territory. We want the people to Lave their own homes. What chance would a man have of providing himself with a home in a town in the Northern Territory if he had only a leasehold? . In the Federal Capital Territory, where the Commonwealth is carrying out the great experiment of having only the leasehold system in operation, the position is altogether  different. If there is in the Commonwealth a leasehold that is a perfectly safe proposition, from an investor's point of view, it is a leasehold in Canberra, because there the Government is tho landlord, and, expressing the will -f Parliament, is about to spend millions of pounds in. establishing a capital city. That, policy cannot be departed from. There is provision .for it in the Constitution. The city will be there for all time, and large sums of money will be expended upon it. ' Yet when an endeavour was made recently to secure the assistance of the banking institutions in financing persons who wanted to erect their homes there, we found it impossible to do so. 
It did, at first; but as the result of a series of negotiations, I am glad to say that it has' now agreed to como in partially. It is now  associated with the Federal Capital Commission, and, although it does not do the business directly, it is at the back of the commission. 
There may be something in that contention. Very great difficulty was experienced in getting the Commonwealth Bank to come in, even to the present extent, in respect of building operations at Canberra. No other bank is willing to do anything, the reason given being that the land is only held under lease. I do not, however, use that as an argument in favour of departing from the leasehold system. I refer to it merely to show how much more difficult it would be for any person to obtain financial assistance in connexion with a town, leasehold in the Northern Territory having regard to the disadvantages that exist there. In these  circum-.stances,  we are asking Parliament to give us the opportunity, under certain conditions, to grant freeholds of agricultural and town lands in the Northern Territory. Provision is also made for another class of freehold in connexion with agriculture. There are some forms of cultivation in the Northern Territory, which, if they are to be successful, will necessitate the expenditure of large sums of capital before they can be made payable. We must have some form of land settlement proposal that will attract capitalists, and that will induce them not necessarily to settle on the land there, but to invest in it. 
There are some freeholds that were granted by South Australia before the Commonwealth took over. None have been granted since, except in the fulfilment of contracts that were entered into before the Commonwealth act came into force. We are proposing in this measure, however, that larger grants of land shall be made available. They will not be sold as freeholds at the outset, but they will be convertible into freeholds on the company concerned carrying out improvement and cultivation conditions, and settling people on these blocks. To do that a company must have the assurance that a sufficient area will be made available to warrant the investment of its capital. In this connexion we have been guided by a law which was in existence in South Australia, but which we have modified in consonance with up-to-date conditions. Under these provisions we hope land settlement companies will be formed with the object of developing and cultivating the land, and bringing settlers to it; so that when these blocks are disposed of they will comply with the conditions under which we grant a freehold title. We hope to be able to attract capital by thus offering the prospect of a fair return on money invested, and to ensure satisfactory development and settlement of the land. 
I think it only right .that I should give the Senate an outline of what is in the mind of the Government in regard to the conditions under which freeholds shall be granted if this power is given us. In the first place it is proposed to amend the Crown Lands Ordinance 1924-1925 so as to provide for the granting of freeholds in respect of - 
Town lands; 
Agricultural lands; 
Garden lands, and 
Tropical lands. 
The term "garden lands" relates really to what is known as suburban land. The term is taken from the Western Australian land law in' .which there is a similar provision under which land adjoining towns is subdivided into blocks of 5, 15 or 20 acres. 
Yes, but we intend to term them " garden lands." Under this provision, men working in townships may secure near by, small blocks on which orchard or gardening operations may be undertaken, and from which they can supplement their wages. It is proposed, under this measure, that such persons shall be able to obtain the freehold of such lands. The following is a summary of the proposed provisions of the amending ordinance : - 
The- holder of any existing town lease, or of a town lease that may hereafter be granted, may, at any time, apply for a grant in fee-simple of the lands included in the lease, and the grant may be made, provided that, in addition to complying with the conditions of the lease, the lessee has - 
erected on the land a residence of the value of at least £50, within the first twelve months of the lease; 
resided on the land continuously for twelve months immediately prior to the application, and 
paid the purchase money and all moneys due in respect of the land. 
The purchase price fixed by the Land Board shall not in any case be less than £5. Honorable senators will recognize that I am merely giving an epitome of the principles for which the ordinance will provide. 
-It is quite low enough. 
I come now to agricultural lands, the conditions as to which may be summarized as follows : - 
Agricultural lands consist of any lands within an area declared to be an agricultural area for the purposes of the proposed ordinance. 
The holder of any existing agricultural lease, or of any agricultural lease that may hereafter be granted, may at any time apply for a grant in fee-simple of the lands, or portion of the lands, included in the lease. 
A grant of the fee-simple may be made, provided that the applicant, in addition to complying with the conditions of the lease, has - 
Securely fenced the land over which the fee-simple is required; 
Cultivated not less than one-tenth of that land; 
Stocked and kept stocked the land as directed by the Land Board; 
Erected a residence and buildings on the land of the value of at least £50 ; and 
Paid the purchase money and all moneys due in respect of the land. 
Residential conditions are already provided in agricultural leases under the existing ordinance. 
The purchase price fixed by the board shall in no case be less than 2s. 6d. per acre. 
The maximum area of agricultural lands which may be granted in fee-simple to any one person is 1,280 acres of Class 1 lands, or 2,560 acres of Class 2 lands. 
Where the lands included in an agricultural lease, or leases, include both Class 1 and Class 2 lands, the maximum area that may be granted in fee-simple shall be the maximum area that could be so granted if the lands were all of the same class. For this purpose 1 acre of Class 1 lands shall be deemed to be equivalent to 2 acres of Class 2 lands. 
I have already referred to garden lands, in respect of which I supply the following particulars :  - 
Garden lands will consist of Crown lands, or dedicated or reserved lands within 10 miles of a town which have been declared by the Minister to be garden lands. 
Leases of garden lands may be granted for vineyards, orchards, or gardens, but for no other purpose. 
The maximum area of a lease of garden lands may not exceed 10 acres. 
The holder of a lease of garden lands may at any time apply for a grant in fee simple of the land, or any portion of it. A grant of the fee-simple may be made, provided the lessee has - 
Complied with the conditions of the lease ; 
Fenced the land; 
Cultivated, and kept under cultivation, at least one-third of the area for a period of not less than two years prior to the issue of the grant ; 
Erected on the land a residence and buildings to the value of at least £50, and is permanently residing on the land; and 
Has paid the purchase price, which shall be not less than 10s. per acre. 
I shall now set out the broad conditions in regard to what are termed " tropical lands " - the larger areas which we hope companies will develop. 
Tropical lands will consist of areas north of the 16th parallel of south latitude which have been declared by the Minister to be tropical lands for the purposes of the production of cotton or tropical products. 
Any company incorporated or registered in the Northern Territory may, upon entering into an agreement in the prescribed form, hold an area of tropical lands not exceeding, in the aggregate, 20,000 acres, for a term of fourteen years. 
Every such agreement shall be laid before both Houses of Parliament, and no transfer of any agreement shall be permitted by the Minister, except to a company, but not to a company which would thereby hold more than 20,000 acres of tropical lands. 
If the company fails to comply with any of the terms, conditions, or provisions of the agreement, the Minister may resume the whole or any portion of the lands; and, on such resumption, all improvements, except tenant's fixtures, upon the land resumed will become the property of the Crown. 
The agreement will provide that the company shall use the land for the growth of cotton, or other tropical products ; and that it shall plant, during the first three years of the term, one twenty-fifth of the land, and keep cultivated the said one twenty-fifth of the land so planted; and during the last four years of the term it shall cultivate, and keep cultivated, at least one-fifth of the land. 
The company will also be required, after the first seven years of occupation, to pay an annual rental of l£d. per acre per year, or portion of a year thereafter until the completion of the purchase, or other determination of the agreement. 
The company will be entitled to a grant of the land in fee simple at any time during the term of the agreement, on payment of 2s. 6d. per acre; and, provided that it proves to the satisfaction of the Minister - 
That it has spent 10s. per acre, in the aggregate, in cultivation and for necessary plant and machinery; that it has produced from the land 200 lb. weight of cotton, or tropical products of an equal amount in value, for every acre held under the agreement; and that it has cultivated one-third of the land. 
Miscellaneous provisions of the amending ordinance provide,  inter alia,  that - 
A husband and wife shall not hold jointly in fee simple a greater area of land than the maximum area which may be granted to any one person under the ordinance. 
No person shall be entitled to hold in fee simple, for his own use and benefit, whether by grant from the Crown or by transfer from any person, a greater area of any lands than the maximum area which may be granted to him in the name of the Crown in pursuance of the ordinance. 
No alien shall be entitled to acquire any land in fee simple. 
No application from an alien for the fee simple of any land shall, therefore, be accepted unless it is accompanied by the statutory declaration of the alien that he has resided in the Northern Territory continuously during the period of twelve months immediately preceding the application and intends to apply within five years after the date of the application for a certificate of naturalization. 
The grant of any land in fee simple shall be subject to the following reservation: - "A reservation to the Crown of all minerals and mineral substances in or upon the land, including gold, silver, copper, tin, metals, ores, and substances containing metals, gems, precious stones, coal, shale, mineral oils, and valuable earths and substances, together with the right to authorize any persons to enter upon the land to mine, work for, win, recover, and remove them or any of them, and to do all things necessary or convenient for those purposes." 
If honorable senators will look at our naturalization law they will see that provision  d  practically determines the class of alien who shall be able to hold land in fee simple in the Northern Territory. 
Not necessarily. That is subject to agreement between the applicant and the Minister, and all such agreements must be laid before Parliament. This is a piece of experimental legislation. The position of the Northern Territory is such that it is essential that we should attract capital to develop it. If capital is to be attracted, conditions must be offered to capitalists which will give them some hope of a reasonable return. 
From the cultivation of the land. I trust that the Senate will realize the necessity for giving these powers to the Government, in order that it shall be able to offer a land title in the Northern Territory similar to that which is obtainable in other parts of the Commonwealth. It is unfair that the Territory should be subject to a handicap, which does not apply to any other part of the Commonwealth. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
- The administration of the Northern Territory by the Commonwealth Government for the last fourteen years has been a distinct failure. That may be ascribed, amongst other things, to the fact that vast tracts of country are held .by big companies which have made no attempt to develop it. Tho Leader of the Senate, in his secondreading speech, pointed out that the Government purposed placing 523,620 square miles of territory under the proposed commission. That area contains many big leaseholds, which include the following: - Bovril Australian Estates, 11,800 square miles; Forrest and Collins, 10,622 square miles; and Miller and Bradshaw, and the Crown Pastoral Company, 12,980 square miles. These four lessees hold 35,402 square miles between them. In other words, they have an area nearly as large as Hungary, which has an area of 35,654 square miles; or Portugal, which has 35,490 square miles; and larger than Austria, 30,766 square miles; Scotland, 30,405 square miles; Ireland, '32,580 square miles; or Tasmania, 26,215 square miles. They hold some of the very best land in the Territory, and I know of nothing whatever that they have done to develop it. Surely it is not impossible, under a proper system qf government, to develop 500,000 square miles of country. It is a pity that this bill did not precede, the measure we had before us some little time ago, which was designed to prevent the Crown from resuming Northern Territory leases for agricultural purposes for many years. 
I have not read the leading articles on this subject in the  Age.  I submit that the presence of these big capitalists in the Northern Territory has tended rather to retard than to develop, or even to assist development there. I am wondering whether Western 
Australia and Queensland will accept the proposals that are made in the bill for agreements to be made enabling the Commonwealth to take over contiguous territory. Queensland, I feel, will look askance at the suggestion that the commission should take over the control of the rich eastern portion of the Barkly Tablelands; and I certainly do not know whether the authorities in Western Australia will agree with the proposal that it should control that part of Western Australia that lies north of the 20th parallel of south latitude. It might have been better if the Government had postponed the introduction of this measure until it had consulted the states concerned. 
I shall come to that point later. The Minister, in his second-reading speech, said that the bill  wa3  but a prelude to the creation of a new state or states. We should be very careful in this matter. I am endeavouring to make up my mind whether or not I should support the proposal for the appointment of a commission as outlined in the bill, or whether I should suggest, in committee, an amendment in the direction of establishing a provisional government for the Northern Territory. 
That difficulty could be overcome. We are told that community of interests is to be observed in the territory to be controlled by the commission. I was glad that the Minister stressed that point, because community of interests is essential fo&lt;r the success of any scheme. Whilst I admit that the bill is well drafted, and that the scheme suggests an honest attempt on the part of the Government to grapple with this allimportant proposal, I believe that the measure has its defects. The commission to be appointed will not be free from political control. 
I do. The Minister pointed out that one of the disabilities under which the Administrator  of the Northern Territory  labours  is that he has to refer so many matters of administration to Melbourne. Under the bill the commission will suffer the same disability. 
Clause 17 provides - 
Subject to this act, the powers of the commission shall extend to the following matters in the relation to the development of so much oF the Territory as is situated north of Hie twentieth parallel of south latitude (in this act referred to as " the prescribed part of the Territory."). 
It then goes on to mention certain public works necessary for the development of the Territory. Clause 19 refers to the preparation of a scheme for the development of the Territory in a particular direction, and clause 21 deals with the preliminary investigation of proposed railway routes. The commission, I am afraid, will be handicapped from the outset in its efforts to develop that great hinterland to which the Minister referred, and which, we know, comprises such a vast tract of wonderful country. This measure is really an acknowledgment of past failures. The Minister admitted that failure hitherto has been due to the absence of satisfactory means of communication, and the necessity to refer certain administrative matters to the central authority in Melbourne. Unfortunately the bill perpetuates the latter disability. What can be more important in any proposal to develop the Northern Territory than efficient means of transport - good roads and good railways? If the commission, from its future seat of government at Newcastle Waters, determines upon the route of a certain developmental railway, and authorizes a survey, the entire proposal must be referred to the central authority before the actual work can be undertaken. The commission should have conferred upon it greater powers than are proposed. Why should it be obliged to report to the central authority before it can undertake developmental works ? 
No, but I am emphasizing the disability which, according to the Minister, constitutes the chief stumbling block to progress under the present system of control. We should attempt to do more with the Northern Territory than we have done in the past. I am not blaming any government for previous failures. I must bear my share of the responsibility, because I have been a member of this Senate for many years. And since I shall have to share some of the responsibility for the future, I am endeavouring to point to what I regard as the defects in the bill now before the Senate. I have no doubt that many other honorable senators will agree that the bill is not without its defects. I said a moment ago that, instead . of a commission, I would prefer a provisional government on the lines suggested by  Mr. Theodore,  the exPremier of Queensland. Perhaps I should say that I prefer his 'proposal to the bill.  Mr. Theodore,  speaking at the opening of the Kyogle-South Brisbane railway in January this year, said - 
There would be millions of people ultimately in the Northern Territory, and not merely in the Northern Territory as we knew it, but also in the northern portion of Western Australia. It was his firm belief that it would be a wise policy to create a new state. 
He would not make a bad "boss" of it, if "boss" is the term to use. 
I hold no brief for  Mr. Theodore.  I am merely putting his proposal before the Senate, and comparing it with that of the Government. Later on he amplified his statements, as the following extract indicates: - 
Asked what was his object in suggesting a provisional government for five years - not an elected government - for the initial development of the new Territory under his scheme, as propounded at the turning of the first sod of the South Brisbane to Kyogle railway on Saturday.  Mr. Theodore  said that in the area which it was proposed should be created into a great new northern state there were only about 4,000 Europeans at present, so it would be seen that there was not sufficient population to have parliamentary government. ?et responsible government was necessary for the inception of the state. Therefore, he thought that it would be essential to have a provisional government for five years to carry out developmental work, and to arrange for the introduction of population. At the end of five years it would be reasonable to expect that there would be a sufficient number of people in the new state to justify the election of a Parliament. The constitution of the new state would provide for those evolutionary steps. The settlement of the area, of course, would have to be based on a migration scheme. He thought that the state would begin as propitiously as Queensland had done, and it should progress to the same extent. He thought that the Commonwealth Government should grant a loan of £20,000,000 for the initiation and early development of the scheme. This money would be only in the nature of a loan to the new state. 
Although  Mr. Theodore  did not enter into details in the statement I have just read, I think that he had at the back of his mind the idea that the provisional government would be given carte blanche to go on with its job. 

 - Mr. Theodore mentioned that the Commonwealth Government could give it a loan. 
I am not committing myself to  Mr. Theodore's  scheme. I am putting before the Senate alternative schemes so that by the time the bill leaves us it will be the best we can contrive to make it. 
It proposes a different form of control. If a provisional government were appointed, and had money loaned to it, and if at the end of five or six years a responsible government could be set up we should find that more would be done for the development of the country than could possibly be done by a commission with restricted powers during the same period. 
It is not so much a question of lending money; the main thing is authority to spend whatever money is loaned. 
It is also in some respects very restricted. The provisions I have already quoted indicate that, in all great works of development, roads or railways, the commission will be handicapped and hobbled. It will not be able to take one step without seeking authority from the Central Government, be it at Melbourne or Canberra. 
I know that in the past authority has always been sought from the Federal Parliament, but what progress has been made in the Northern Territory during the fourteen years it has been under the control of the Commonwealth? The need to refer everything to this Parliament has not helped in the advancement or development of the Territory. As indicated by  Senator Pearce,  whether we have a commission or a provisional government in control, the importance of Darwin and Wyndham, in matters relating to shipping or aerial communication, cannot be underestimated. During the last ten years aviation has made remarkable strides, and it is a wise step on the part of the Government to, take the matter of aerial transport into consideration. 
The bill provides that the administration of that portion of the Territory which lies to the south of the 20th parallel of latitude is to be carried on from Melbourne, and that the administrator is, if possible, to be a medical man. That would be an excellent combination. But I cannot understand the need for separating the administration of the southern portion from that of the northern portion of the Territory. I am wondering why a line of demarcation has been drawn. If it is proposed to place under a commission the northern portion of the great area committed to the care of the Commonwealth, why not give the commission control of the whole of the Territory, including what is to be known as Central Australia, and any territory which may be handed over by the states of Western Australia and Queensland? 

 Senator Pearce in his speech said; 
The commission will have control of its own funds, and will be able to carry out an uninterrupted policy of development on the lines approved by Parliament. 
I have just referred to what I regard as the weakness of the whole hill, the clauses of which set out the powers of the commission. Whatever the commission may determine upon in the way of development it will be interrupted at every stage from the time the survey is made until the work is commenced. And if any programme of work is likely to cost more than was originally estimated, the commission will have again to refer to the Federal Parliament for funds, and so the whole business we have been carrying out for the last fourteen years will still continue. Part III. provides for agreements with the states. I dare say that by now the Governments of Queensland and Western Australia will have had the contents of the measure before them, and I shall be interested to learn their views upon the proposal that they should hand over to the control of the proposed commission portions of their states contiguous to the Northern Territory. 
Clause 44 provides - 
There shall be an advisory council for North Australia to advise the government resident in relation to any matter affecting North Australia (but not including any matter relating to the powers of the commission, or any matter under the control of the commission), including advice as to the making of new ordinances or the repeal or amendment of existing ordinances. 
Clause 50 provides - 
There shall be an advisory council for Central Australia to advise the government resident in relation to any matter affecting Central Australia, including advice as to the making of new ordinances or the repeal or amendment of existing ordinances. 
Thus, in North Australia, there will be not only a commission, but also an advisory council, while in Central Australia, there will be a government resident and another advisory council. I think the machinery is clumsy. I think it would be better to eliminate these advisory councils, and put the whole Territory under one commission, or, if you like, one provisional government. I referred a little while ago to  Mr. Theodore's  suggestion, but there is another alternative scheme. There could be a. provisional council, consisting of a number of per sons - perhaps two or three - elected by the people of the territory that it is proposed to control and administer, and a similar number nominated by the Government, with a government resident as  chairman.  It must not be forgotten that, concurrently with the taking over of certain territory, a number of citizens also will be taken over. We should consider their rights, in addition to the development of the Territory. In committee, consideration might be; given to the alternative that I have mentioned.  Senator Pearce,  by interjection, said that  Mr. Theodore's  scheme did not provide for an elective body. I admit the truth of that. Will the Minister consider the appointment of a provisional council, partly elective and partly nominative, with the government resident as  chairman,  and the seat of government at Newcastle Waters? That would be a central position for the railway which will eventually reach Alice Springs, and also for the trade and commerce of the eastern tableland and the Victoria River country. 
The observations which I have made upon the measure have not been dictated by a spirit of antagonism to it. I realize its importance. I realize the necessity -for making another attempt to win from that great northern area, al! the good that is in it. I realize its vastness, and its possibilities in a pastoral, an. agricultural, and a mineral sense. With  in the area there are great mineral deposits. There is the hinterland, to which the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  referred, which offers great possibilities in respect to tropical agriculture. This is a big question, and the success or failure of the Territory will depend largely upon the manner in which we deal with it. I shall give the bill general support at this stage, but in committee I may suggest one of the alternatives that I have mentioned. I think that the structure proposed will prove top-heavy. I am very much afraid that the work of the commission will not be for the benefit of Australia, or make for the development of that great northern area with which it deals. 
.- I desire to offer my congratulations to the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  for the clear manner in which he delivered his second - reading speech on this bill. I was, however, somewhat disappointed with his proposal. For a considerable time we were looking forward to the announcement that he proposed making regarding a fresh policy for the development of the Northern Territory. Those who have had the opportunity to see some of the Northern Territory are naturally interested in its future development. I listened very carefully to the Minister's speech, and during the week end I have closely studied the bill. I am not enamoured of it in its present form. More than half of the Minister's speech was devoted to a recital of the many disadvantages under which the residents of the Northern Territory live. He referred to the control that is exercised by different departments from various head- quarters', and mentioned that there is only one mail a fortnight from Oodnadatta to Alice Springs, taking ten days to do the journey. Those, and the various other disadvantages under which the Territory suffers, are well known to honorable senators. If it lay in their power, honorable senators would endeavour to improve the conditions. Three or four years; ago a parliamentary party, of which 1 was a member, traversed Central Australia, and later reported to the then Minister for Home and Territories  (Mr. Poynton)  the disadvantages connected with the camel mail to Alice Springs. We urged  him to substitute a camel buggy mail, because of the discomfort that waa suffered by women  who  had to travel by the .means of transport provided. We also referred to the disadvantages of control by different departments from various places. Despite the fact that nearly four years have elapsed, the present Minister says that those disadvantages still exist, and that no measures have been taken to relieve the inconveniences and hardships that are caused. J hope that the residents of the Northern Territory will, not in future have to wait so long for necessary reforms. The Minister knows that in Western Australia great inconveniences are suffered by those who live in the out-back portions of the state. Similar conditions exist also in Queensland. Not long ago I visited the town of Birdsville, in far western Queensland. The nearest telephone line is about 300 miles distant from that town. With the size of Australia, and its present population, many of the existing disadvantages cannot be avoided. They will continue until the population has been largely increased and the land more closely settled. If people can secure good land under more congenial conditions in close proximity to the large centres of population and conveniently situated in regard to ports and harbours we cannot expect them to go into the more remote parts. The history of land settlement in Queensland is that in tha beginning men held huge areas, until they were driven out by the squatter, whose place in turn was taken by a number of selectors. Evolution in the Northern Territory will be along similar lines. It is our duty to do all that we can to expedite the settlement of land in the remote portions of the continent. One of the best means of doing that is to make the conditions of living more comfortable and provide adequate transport facilities. The bill does not propose to give to the commission greater power than could be exercised by a capable administrator. It i3 unfortunate that in the past the Administrator of the Northern Territory has been given very little, power. The present Administrator,  Mr. Urquhart,  practically occupies the position of a glorified caretaker; before he can do anything to advance the development of the Northern Territory he must refer the matter to Melbourne, although he lives in the Territory and is in close touch with its affairs. Neither he nor his predecessor had the opportunity to put in operation any new ideas for settlement because of the hampering effect of control from Melbourne. Instead of having one administrator the Minister proposes to appoint three, whose total salaries will be £6,000 per annum. I do not think that the -Northern Territory will be greatly benefited by adding to the already very large number of public servants there. The number will be bound to grow under this* scheme. Each administrator will require his own secretary and staff. In addition, there will be a government resident in the north and another in the south, each of whom will require a staff.. The experience of Australia during the last fifteen or twenty years has been that when a new department is created it very quickly gathers together a considerable staff. The Commonwealth Public Service has grown beyond the expectations of the most pessimistic. We were told at the inception of federation that various governmental activities were to be consolidated' and that there would be no in- crease in the cost of administration. We find, however, that the cost has grown to an alarming extent, and the expenditure entailed under this proposal will further increase our financial responsibility. The Government would be rendering a greater service to the Northern Territory if, on the expiration of the present Administrator's term it appointed a strong, capable officer with the powers which the present Administrator, and others who have preceded him, have been seeking for years. 
At the moment, I cannot; but I have had conversations with the present Administrator, and with some of those who have preceded him, and all have mentioned the disabilities under which they have laboured. I can supply the right honorable gentleman with instances if he so desires. 
After my return from the Northern Territory I discussed the development of the Northern Territory very fully with- the then Minister for Home and Territories  (Mr. Poynton),  who, until certain facts were brought under his notice by me, held practically the same opinions on this matter as the present Minister . A perusal of the bill will show that the powers to be given to the proposed board are very limited. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  referred to the question of railway construction. I should like the Minister to direct my attention to any portion of the bill in which greater powers will be conferred upon the proposed commission than are exercised by the present Administrator in the matter of railway construction. Under this measure, the commission will have to communicate with  the Ministerial head of the department and submit recommendations in connexion with the building of any railway. 
I am not saying that it is not, because Parliament should retain control over expenditure. I am merely pointing out that it is unnecessary to appoint a commission of three to communicate with the Minister when that can at present be done by the Administrator. 
The Administrator for the time being should be able to obtain the requisite information before making a recommendation. Honorable senators are aware that, under the control of  Sir William  McGregor and, later, of Judge Murray, Papua, where the difficulties are, in a sense, much greater than in the Northern Territory, owing to the fact that hundreds of thousands of natives have to be dealt with, has been well administered. The administrative work there has been satisfactorily carried' out by one officer, with the assistance of a council consisting of the Governor, the heads of departments, and, I believe, a citizen representative. In that case it has not been necessary to appoint an unwieldy and expensive body, such as is proposed in this instance. It will be generally admitted that the bulk of the land in the Northern Territory consists of light-carrying cattle country. That in the Barkly Tablelands 'is different from the land in the southern portion of the Northern Territory and to that extending to the far west. In the vicinity of Alice Springs, there is a large area which, under irrigation, could be used f or raising agricultural products ; but irrigation is a tremendous problem in central Australia. Alice Springs, for instance, even with railway communication, is many hundreds' of miles from any large consuming centre. Until the population in that locality has considerably increased, there is very little likelihood of irrigation products raised in that part of the country being successfully marketed. The country between Alice Springs and Newcastle Waters consists of cattle land of a lightcarrying capacity, and some of the most optimistic settlers in the Northern Territory admit that, even with an improved water supply, the country, under normal conditions, would not carry more than two or three beasts to the square mile. Generally speaking, droughts are unknown in the Barkly Tablelands and the Minister stated that,, as a result of the appointment of the proposed commission, he was hopeful of a prosperous sheepgrowing centre being established there. Is there anything in this bill to make the Barkly Tablelands more suitable for sheep-raising than at present? There is an absence of streams, and no trees from which sheep can obtain necessary shade or protection. Notwithstanding the fact mentioned by the Minister that, when he visited the Barkly Tablelands everything was prosperous, although there was a drought in Western Queensland, experiments have shown that it is impossible to obtain here anything  like the percentage of lambs obtained in Western Queensland. If the Government is really anxious to open this Territory, they should, instead of appointing an expensive commission, assist in the construction of the railways from Western Queensland to the Northern Territory. One of the most essential factors in the satisfactory development of the Barkly Tablelands is the cheap carriage of goods, wire netting, bore-casing, and boring plant generally. The appointment of a board of three commissioners in place of an Administrator will not provide the settlers on the Barkly Tablelands, where the wild dogs are bad, with the means of obtaining wire-netting at a cheaper rate, trees to ensure shade and protection, or artesian water where none is available. These conditions are well known to the Minister, and if the Government is really desirous of opening up this rich tract of country, it should do something of a practical nature. Had a railway been in operation in Western Queensland during the last two or three droughts, thu service so rendered to pastoralists would have been great. The value of the sheep lost in consequence of the dry conditions would have been more than sufficient to meet the construction of such a line. A drought is not usually experienced in all portions of Australia at the same time, and if adequate railway facilities were provided, pastoralists would be able to move their stock from place to place, and thus avoid very heavy losses. If consideration is given to the settlers in those portions of the Territory where the conditions are better, development will extend in such a way that it will not be long before there will be a demand for the country of a lighter cattle-carrying capacity. One of the reasons given by the Minister for appointing (his commission was that it would administer the whole of the Northern Territory, and also, he hoped, cer- tain parts of Western Australia and Queensland. We have no information as to whether either of these states is -willing to give the proposed commission jurisdiction over parts of its territory. It would have been far better had the Government delayed introducing the bill until it was in a position to indicate the attitude of Western Australia and Queensland on this matter. I understand that it has been submitted to them, but that they have not yet had time to consider it. Not only have they had no opportunity to discuss it, bub honorable senators are in the same position. The Minister referred to the valuable mineral resources of the Territory. Every one who knows anything of northern Australia is aware that it contains very rich mineral country; but is the creation of this commission, with its necessarily heavy overhead expenses, likely to assist in any way to develop it? One has only to go as far as Cloncurry, in Queensland, to find some of the richest copper fields in the world closed down on account of the high cost of production. When I, with other honorable members of this Parliament, visited the Northern Territory not long ago, we spent some time at Hatch's Creek, and inspected the wolfram deposits there. These also were not being worked, for the reason that wolfram had dropped to such a low price that it was impossible to work them at a profit. At that time wolfram was being exported from China for £20 a ton. In order to make the Frew River deposits pay, it would be necessary to get from £100 to £110 a, ton for wolfram; If it is impossible to work profitably the rich copper country at Cloncurry, right on a railway line, and only 500 miles from the seaboard, it seems to me that it is ridiculous to suggest that the appointment of three highly-paid commissioners to administer the Northern Territory will do anything to assist to develop the mineral resources there. Some of the provisions in the bill seem to be contradictory. Clause 17 provides that the commission shall be responsible for the maintenance and operation of railways, the construction and maintenance of roads, the erection of telegraph and telephone lines, water boring and conservation, ports and harbours, and so on. Clause 18, however, appears to take away the power which clause 17 gives. It reads - 
As soon  as  practicable after its appointment the commission shall prepare and submit to the Minister a scheme for the development of the prescribed part of the Territory, together with information and explanations in detail in relation thereto. 
The Minister may at any time require the commission to supply further information or explanations in relation to the scheme, and the commission shall furnish such information or explanations accordingly. 
If the Minister approves of the whole or part of the scheme, the commission shall take all necessary steps to give effect to the whole or part of the scheme as so approved. 
If the Minister declines to approve any part of the scheme, it shall be the duty of the commission to prepare and supply a fresh scheme. 
It appears to me, therefore, that thecommission will have no more power than the present. Administrator has. In any case, it is quite apparent that if the commission is appointed it will he subject to considerable ministerial control. I do not say that that is altogether a bad thing, for I have been somewhat adverse to the handing over of our powers of government to boards in the way that has been done during the last few years. "We have just had an example of what happens from that practice. Admiral Clarkson, on behalf of the Shipping Board, has signed an agreement in connexion with the shipping dispute. I am glad that he, and the unions, did so. It is a very good thing, although their actions have been received with mixed feelings by certain sections of the community. But the fact that the Shipping Board could act in this way shows to what an extent we have given away our powers of government. 
SenatorFOLL. - I do not think that it is necessary to give the commission such wide powers as those proposed by  Senator Needharn.  Until the Territory is maintaining a sufficient population, and paying sufficient taxation, to warrant extending to it governmental powers similar to those enjoyed by the various states, it is necessary for us to exercise control over it. I can find nothing in the bill, nor has the Minister given any reason, to satisfy me that we should substitute for the present Administrator a highly-paid commission. I am open to conviction, but so far I have not been convinced. I object to the proposal to take away from the Public Works Committee the duty of inquiring into the construction of all public works in the Territory the estimated cost of which is over £25,000. The Public "Works Committee was deliberately constituted by this Parliament for the purpose of carefully scrutinizing the proposed expenditure of public moneys, and I have no hesitation in saying that it has saved the country many thousands of pounds. I think the Minister will agree with me when I say that it has justified over and over again the expenditure upon it. It has found no difficulty, in recent years, in inquiring into the expenditure of public money on proposed works in the Northern Territory which have been referred to it for consideration.When occasion requires it, the committee can divide itself into two sub-committees, one of which can continue necessary work in the south, while the other travels to the north, to do what is necessary there. That has been done frequently. I can see no reason why we should discontinue the practice. The Government proposes to create two new states in the Territory. "When one considers that the southern boundary of the Territory is something like 1,000 miles from Darwin, one has no difficulty in realizing that the people in the north are likely to be quite out of touch with residents in the south. I have frequently heard it said by the latter that they are never given a chance to express their views on public matters, but are practically ruled, and always outvoted, by the people of Darwin. In view of these circumstances I commend the Minister for endeavouring to give the southern residents more voice in public affairs than they at present enjoy. 
SenatorFOLL. - The Leader of the Senate should remember that the sweetest plums are always saved until the end. May I remind him also that just as in our boyhood days we were admonished by our parents, and told that it was for our good, so I am endeavouring to admonish the Government in the hope that it will benefit. I am sorry, however,  that it is proposed to call the new states North Australia and Central Australia. As we already have a West Australia and a South Australia, I feel that confusion will occur if this proposal is accepted. I am sorry that we have not been able to reserve the name Australia for the whole of the continent, and to find other names for the various states. Honorable senators know that the Government of the United States of America was able to describe its various states by euphonious names, such as Texas, Louisiana, Alabama, and so on. I am sure that we could find some other and more satisfactory names for these new states. It has been suggested to me that, to identify the present Government with the proposal, this portion of Australia might be called " Pearceiana,  or " Bruceiana." 
The suggestion of the Honorary Minister is a happy one. Perhaps, in view of the fact that the Country party in South Australia has treated  Senator Wilson  so badly he may, after the next election, be sent up to Alice Springs to be first governor of " Wilsonia." But, to be serious, I think we should be prepared to see very little progress in agricultural settlement for a considerable period. We may as well be candid. The experiment in the Borroloola River , district, during the time when  Dr. Gilruth  was Administrator, was a failure. We know also what happened in connexion with the Mataranka experimental farm. That country is absolutely unsuitable for sheep. I believe, however, that the Minister has been more earnest in his desire to do something for the Northern Territory than any other Minister for Home and Territories since the Territory was handed over to the Commonwealth by South Australia.  His  work is recognized by all who are in a position to express an opinion, but I think he was somewhat hasty in presenting a measure to set up expensive and bulky machinery for the development of the Northern Territory. If the Government vested a greater measure of authority in the Administrator, and if it appointed the right man - it should not be impossible to obtain a man experienced in tropical conditions if the pay is adequate - the development of the Territory would receive a greater impetus than is likely under a commission. Our experience of commissioners has not been such as to warrant a continuance of the policy of substituting three public servants for one. I hope that, when the bill is in committee, careful attention will be given to the points which I have raised. I can assure the Minister that I recognize fully, and appreciate highly, his desire to help forward the great Territory which he has been administering for the last two years. 
 Unlike  Senator Foll,  I have not the advantage of personal knowledge of the Northern Territory, so I can only look at the proposal from a business point of view, and deal with it in a general way. It seems to me, however, that it represents an effort to bring about, in the Northern Territory, a reform that is long overdue. Any one who reads the last report of the Administrator must realize that there has been a lamentable lack of progress in the financial year just closed. This is a strong argument against further delay in grappling with the problem. The time is ripe for a forward move, and I congratulate the Minister for having introduced the bill. It should make for greater efficiency and, bv attracting more people to the Territory, give greater encouragement to private enterprise, withOUt which no country can progress. There is. another aspect which should not be overlooked. If, as the result of the proposal now before the Senate, we can do something to people the waste spaces in the Northern Territory, we shall place our defences on a better basis, because the Territory in its present state is, as the Minister so aptly remarked, the Achilles heel of the Commonwealth. It is our most vulnerable part. Therefore, if we can attract population in sufficient numbers to that portion of Australia, we shall, to that extent, strengthen our defences there. Another important principle in the bill is a recognition of the necessity for subdivision of the vast areas of this continent. In this case, however, the question is approached from an angle different from that from which I and others have been accustomed to view it. The bill provides for the subdivision of a large area with a small population, whereas the idea to which we are accustomed is the subdivision of large areas  where population and development justify their cutting up in the interest of, not only the locality itself, but also the original state of which it forms a part. Although the difference is as stated, I venture to predict that neither Queensland nor Western Australia will consent to come into this scheme; and I hope the right honorable the Minister will lend his powerful assistance to the rapidly growing body of earnest men in this country who are desirous of removing from the states to the Commonwealth the power of consent to subdivision when the conditions for such are ripe.  His  statement that the Commonwealth must not shirk its responsibilities may, I think, be regarded as a good omen. It has been stated that neither the Queensland nor Western Australian Government has as yet intimated whether it proposes to surrender territory and share in the benefits of the scheme. The proposal standing by itself is quite sufficient. We should deal with the Northern Territory regardless of whether, subsequently, portion of the contiguous States of Queensland and Western Australia are incorporated. The Minister suggested that the inclusion of certain areas from those states would ensure community of interests. I suggest that, even without their inclusion, there will be community of interests. 
I know that for a long time there has been no development in the north-western portion of Queensland. Nevertheless, I think that those State Governments will prefer to remain outside the scheme, and preserve their own territory. As a matter of f act, Queensland stands to gain more by remaining out. There is no suitable port in the Queensland territory on the Gulf of Carpentaria, so Queensland will naturally endeavour to push out its railways to get a share of the Northern Territory trade, and at the same time reap any resultant benefit from the development of its western country; I do not know much about Western Australia', but I should say that, on general principles, it is not at all likely that that state will consent to surrender any portion of its territory. I should like to impress on the Minister and the Senate the necessity for the present power of consent to subdivision to be transferred from the states to the Commonwealth. It is unthinkable that any' Premier of a state will voluntarily give up part of his kingdom. The Minister spoke hopefully of the future of Darwin. I agree with him that under this scheme Darwin should have a great future. I cannot help thinking what a wonderful opportunity was missed 50 years ago, when  Sir Thomas  McIlwraith, one of Australia's most far-seeing statesmen, introduced a proposal in the Queensland Parliament for the construction, on the land grant principle, of a transcontinental railway from Port Darwin to Port Alma.  Sir Samuel  Griffith, who was opposed to  Sir Thomas  McIlwraith in those days, frustrated the scheme by objecting that it was wrong for any Government to barter the birthright of its people in exchange for a railway. It was absurd to suggest that the land would not be put to any use. If that scheme had been accepted Darwin, from the point of view of development, would have been years ahead of its present position, and the scheme would also have meant a great deal to Queensland. I think that the bill will do much for the Northern Territory and Darwin,its port Government by commission is on trial in Washington, and, other parts of America, also at Canberra. Therefore it seems to me very fitting that we should try the system in Northern; Australia. As I understand thatthe commission will have veryfull administrative powers, I cannot see the need for also having a government resident 
I am. I am not accepting the bill in its entirety. I am mentioning what I consider a few weaknesses, which I hope to have the opportunity of rectifying in committee. There will be a commission of three, which number will be increased if the. adjoining states come into the scheme, and the commissioners will be paid considerable remunerations. But ifwe also appoint a government resident there will be the possibility of a clash between him and the commissioners. The commission being, as it were, a board of directors, with full power to do things, subject only  to the Minister  and  this Parliament, a government resident will be like the fifth wheel on a coach. The advisory council is to furnish advice to the government resident. In my opinion, we should not incur the expense of appointing a government resident, but should allow the commissioners to benefit by that advice. I differ from  Senator Needham  with regard to the value of work which may be undertaken without parliamentary .sanction. The amount stipulated,  £25,000,  is a fairly large sum, and I think that before any expenditure approaching that magnitude is undertaken parliamentary approval should be obtained. No doubt, when a recommendation is put forward by a commission which  knows  its business, that approval will be easily obtained.. I do not believe in giving away the authority of Parliament in the way  Senator Needham  has suggested. I do not gather that the commission is to control land rents. 
I notice that the commission is to be given one month's notice of any legal action instituted against it, but I do not see any reason why it should be favoured in this respect. I dare say  Senator Pearce  will have a complete answer for whatever criticism I have offered. On the whole, I think that the bill is a commendable effort to bring about increased development in the Northern Territory, and I heartily support its general principles. 
 Senator Pearce  concluded an instructive and informative second-reading speech by expressing the hope that the bill would be received sympathetically. I can assure him that although there may be strong differences of opinion between the Opposition and the Government in respect of some measures which have been introduced, one can approach the bill now before us with a fairly open mind, because how best to develop and people the Northern Territory is  a  problem that must be faced sooner or later, and the sooner the better for the people of Australia. The Northern Territory can be well said to be Australia's empty cradle. It has a mere handful of people in an area which is nearly six times that of Victoria. For about a decade and a half the administration of this lonesome land has been entrusted to the Commonwealth. "When it was first taken over from South Australia in  1911  hopes ran high that at last something substantial would be done to advance its progress. But so far the efforts made have been more or less resultless and wasteful. It has often been said that the " round the compass " method of dealing with the Territory which has hitherto been adopted is not likely to bring about real progress. The problem is a big one, which must be tackled in a big way by big men with big ideas. Salaries are a mere bagatelle. If we can secure the services of men with the proper qualifications, and with ripened experience and judgment, to attempt to do something which has not yet been attempted or done in the Northern Territory - if they are not hampered or harassed, but are encouraged and assisted, as they should be - I am sure they will bring about real progress, and justify their appointment. We are told by some that the Territory is a barren waste. That is not correct. We are told by others that it is full of possibilities, and I share that opinion, because I am optimistic in regard to its future. " Then why," some will ask, "has progress not been made there?" The reasons are not far to seek. The north is suffering to-day, as it has been for a long period of years, from intense isolation. The Minister mentioned the period that elapses between the forwarding of a letter from Melbourne to Darwin, and the receiving of a reply. Any one who doubts hia statement will find complete confirmation of it in a letter forwarded by the editor of the  Northern Territory Times  to  Mr. Waddell,  M.L.C., of New South Wales.  Mr. Waddell  has gone to considerable trouble to prepare a most informative pamphlet on what he considers to be the best route of a certain railway. He has forwarded his pamphlet, not only to honorable senators, but also to the editor of the  Northern Territory Times.  This is the reply he received from Darwin - 
Your pamphlet was posted to rae early in -April, probably too late to catch the boat which left Sydney about 2nd April; it reached me on 15th May.. The return mail carrying this letter "will leave Darwin on 7th June, and should reach you about 21st June. That is three months to get a reply to your brief note to me, for which many thanks. 
Even if the time could be shortened in the way the honorable senator suggests, I think that progress can be furthered in the Northern Territory only by having more up-to-date methods of delivering mails. The Territory is suffering from intense isolation and the absence of essential needs, such as railways, roads, and water supplies. 
No doubt, an aeroplane service will be provided later on. We know that the Territory has some of the finest navigable water-ways in Australia, and that it contains subartesian waters. We also know that people engaged in the pastoral industry there endure great hardship, and it is recorded that at times the wells are not kept in proper order. A short but a very interesting report was furnished to the Government by  Mr.  Steffanson,  who was commissioned to tour portions of the Northern Territory. His opinion is that water  is  of more importance to the Territory than either gold or oil, and that the exploitation of the water resources should precede the development of the mineral wealth. I take it that the commission will have to consider that all-important matter ? 

 - Mr. Steffanson in his report said - 
I should judge that in the country covered by our actual visit, and our inquiries, the number of cattle and of settlers could be multiplied by at least four over the present numbers if. wells were found, and it seems likely that wells can be found at such distances from each other - as to enable stockmen to occupy nearly or quite the entire  area. 
He also referred to the absence of telephonic communication. Why matters that are so small from a' departmental point of view, but which are so important to those who are living in the Territory,  are  not attended to promptly, passes my comprehension.  Mr.  Stteffanson  said - 
There was rejoicing at stations far, in both directions, from Crown Point when they learned that Lord Stradbroke had broken down near there, for they thought the incident would call the attention of the Government forcibly to the need of a telephone, not primarily, of course, for ordinary travellers, although they would find it convenient, but for the drovers passing with their mobs of cattle who need to notify their approach in advance, so that tanks can be filled to be ready for them, and also to be warned if any well is out of order, so that they can turn back at discretion or perhaps rest their stock to prepare them for a forced march past the temporarily unavailable water supply. 
That is an all-important matter, yet apparently for many years nothing has been done to meet the requirements of those who are engaged in this industry.  Mr. Steffanson  further stated - 
We were told by  Mr. Summerfield,  who lives there- at Crown Point - that the distance from his house to the transcontinental telegraph line is only about 200 yards; that he had petitioned for a telephone more than two years ago, and that he would be glad to do the work connected with it for nothing, or even to pay, if necessary. 
So far the all-important matters of roads, railways, telegraphic, and telephonic communication and water conservation have not been seriously considered. The Commonwealth took over the Northern Territory in 1911. The total expenditure from 1st January, 1911, to 30th June, 1925, has been - 

<graphic href="110332192507084_16_0.jpg"></graphic>

The total revenue received during that period was £1,314,S62; therefore, the cost to the Commonwealth has been £4,238,734, and the results have been almost nil. That must not be allowed to continue. Surely the matter is not too big for an Australian Parliament to tackle! It has not seriously faced it so. far, but it will have to face it. Although honorable senators represent different states, I trust that they are, nevertheless^ whole-hearted Australians.. This is a part of Australia, and it is our duty to do all that we can to advance its interests. So far it has made little, if any, progressThere are railways in the Territory that commence at points in the north and the south, but yet have a big gap between. A railway runs to Oodnadatta from the south, and one starts at Darwin, and proceeds south as far as the Katherine. When the Commonwealth took over that line its terminal point was Pine Creek. Those railways are, of course, nonpaying propositions. The revenue received from them has amounted to £319,937, and the loss involved is £179,584. I shall now deal with the Territory from the point of view of population. In 1910 it contained 3,005 persons, consisting of 1,173 Europeans and 1,832 others. 
No. In 1924 there were 2,240 Europeans and 1,018 others, a total of 3,258, an increase of 147. 
Yes. The Europeans increased by just over 1,000, but the other population decreased by over 800. The 'following figures relate to the live-stock in the Territory at the periods I have named : - 

<graphic href="110332192507084_17_1.jpg"></graphic>

Those who are more familiar than I am with the country will probably be able to explain why there has been such a big decrease in the number of sheep. 
The transportation difficulties existed in 1910. 
Those figures are very significant. They tell a tale, and those who are engaged in the sheep industry will probably be able to inform us , of the real cause of the tremendous decrease in the number of sheep in the Territory. The bill proposes that there shall be three commissioners, two advisory councils, and two Government residents; and that the advisory councils shall be partly nominee and partly elective. That marks a distinct departure from the present methods of administering the Territory, but as the latter are so unsatisfactory any change would probably be better than none. We have been furnished by the Administrator with a report that contains matters which should have been dealt with as firsthand without public attention having to be called to them in an official document presented to Parliament. According to the report of the Superintendent of Agriculture, for the year ended the 30th June, 1924, under the heading of " Building, Botanic Gardens," the curator's house, the gardener's house, and the outbuildings, including the aborigines' quarters, are badly in need of repairs and paint. It is further stated - 
On the curator's house, the main supports, such as the corner posts, are bare to the sun,  wind, and rains. The paint has long since worn off with age. A very good example of the value of cypress pine as a building timber is, however, thus presented. The house is about 25 years old, and yet the wood is still hard and sound. It would be a wise proceeding to renovate and paint this Government property as soon as possible. 
Has not the Administrator power to authorize such work ? 
Cannot money be found to renovate a building which will become almost valueless unless expenditure is incurred in the way desired by the superintendent ? Apparently, the only way by which money can be obtained is by calling attention to the fact, as is done in this report, and then leaving it to the Minister to find the money. The police commissioner also reports concerning a trip of inspection - 
The ear that was handed to me for the trip was excellent, though the original five tires were perished, owing to its having stood so long in Darwin without use. Another great drawback was the want of tools; in fact, this was a very great danger to myself and boy, and one that I would never risk again. 
What is the use of providing  ian  officer with a motor car unless it can be used with safety? The portion of the report which I have quoted shows that this officer was not supplied with the requisite tools in the event of anything happening to the car. I seriously ask the Minister whether this matter had to be finally dealt with by him before tools could be obtained? 
If that is the case, why is room found in the report for the complaint I have quoted? If we have spent £4,250,000 in the Northern Territory, and cannot find  sufficient  to equip the user of the  official motor car with good tyres and necessary tools, we have come to a dead end. 
There is good pastoral and agricultural land in the Northern Territory, and practically every known mineral has been discovered. "We were informed by the Minister that cotton, tobacco, peanuts and other commodities at present imported into Australia, can be grown in the Territory, but in the report, from which I have been quoting there is an apparent contradiction. The cotton industry, which was one of America's staple industries, will, I hope, before very long, assume very important proportions in the northern part of Australia. It may become even more important to Australia than the wool industry. The Superintendent of Agriculture, in his report, states that he is impressing upon those engaged in cotton cultivation the necessity to plant early, and that, in consequence of the dry spell in January and the late planting, the cotton crop was more or less a failure.  Mr. H.  E. Warren, the Superintendent of the Church Missionary Society at Roper River, says - 
The cotton grown was not a very great success. The seed arrived too late, and a hot spell killed most of the seedlings. What is the use of impressing upon those engaged in cotton cultivation the necessity to plant early unless supplies of seed are forwarded in sufficient time? 
This measure, which contains many provisions of a highly important nature, deserves the serious consideration of every honorable senator, and if this new departure will hasten progress in the Northern 
Territory the Government will have no cause to regret its introduction. I am not worrying about the salaries to be paid to the proposed commissioners because, to me, salaries axe of little consequence when compared with the important nature of the work to be undertaken. I was associated with the Government responsible for the establishment of -the Commonwealth Bank, and when the salary to be paid to the Governor of that institution was announced many said that it was too high. We were more concerned with the desirability of getting the best man available than with the salary to be paid. The appointment of the late Governor of the Bank, who has gone the way of all flesh, was in every sense justified.  His  salary was £4,000 a year. During a farmers' conference in the Western District of Victoria, which I attended in company with an ex-Prime Minister  (Mr. Fisher),  a few1 years ago, a conversation occurred regarding the establishment of the Commonwealth Bank and "the proposal to pay the Governor of the Bank the salary I have mentioned. The gentleman to whom we were speaking, and who occupied a very important position, said, " That is a big salary,  Mr. Fisher.  You propose, also, to allow the Governor  £3  3s. per day for travelling expenses. He will be always travelling."  Mr. Fisher  replied, " I hope he will be. Commercial travellers are always on the move, and they do not travel unless there is a prospect of securing business. If the Governor of the Commonwealth Bank is not worth £3 3s. a day when travelling on the business of the Bank, he will not be worth much when in the Bank." We may anticipate that the  chairman  of this commission will be paid more than the other two members. I had to read the bill hurriedly, but I did not see any provision in it for the payment of travelling expenses. If we expect the most qualified men to apply for these positions, we must make the conditions liberal. It has to be -remembered that the cost of living in the Northern Territory is high. I am not advocating, at the moment, that the salaries proposed should be increased, but that the Government should do its utmost to obtain the very best men available. It has to be remembered that salaries to-day are only relative. The question that everybody asks is not what salary or wage is offered, but what will the salary or wage purchase. 
I would not give any consideration whatever to this measure if it were simply a matter of appointing men to lucrative positions. We are expecting big things to be done in the Territory after this commission is appointed. It will be entrusted with large powers in respect to the maintenance and 'operation of railways, the construction and maintenance of roads, the erection of telegraph and telephone lines, water boring and conservation,  ports  and harbours, and such other matters in relation to the development of the territory as are specified by proclamation from time to time. 
It is apparent that the commission will have to discharge duties of the highest importance. It will be engaged in that hardest of all work, pioneering. It is true that it will be subject to parliamentary control, for Parliament will have to provide the money that it will have to spend; nevertheless, it will hold a very responsible position. Seeing that we are making such a marked departure from ordinary governmental methods, I trust that the Government will make every effort to secure as commissioners men who are fired with ambition to develop the territory, and who have untiring energy, as well as special qualifications, for the work. It must be remembered that the Northern Territory is different from every other part of Australia. For that reason we must secure specially qualified men to develop it. Although I am not enamoured of government . by commissions, I am 50 satisfied that the present method of administering the territory has been more or less a failure that I am willing to support the bill. I trust that the commissioners who are appointed will place North Australia " on the map." I sincerely desire that they shall make good and justify their appointment; and that, in a few years' time, the Commonwealth will be glad that it took over the .Northern Territory from South Australia in 1911. 
It has been apparent to the people of Australia, for a considerable time that some courageous step must be taken if the Northern Territory is ever to become an asset to the Commonwealth, instead of a liability, as it has been for so many years. I welcome very heartily the introduction of this measure, and I congratulate the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  on the very clear and concise statement he made in explanation of it. I listened to his speech with much attention, and because of the excellent way in which it was made, I, although never having had the opportunity of visiting the Northern Territory, was able to visualize the conditions there better than I have ever been able to do from previous speeches on the subject. I have for years taken such an interest in the Northern Territory that I have read everything that I could obtain concerning it, and I have considered for a long time that the Government would be compelled to recognize that some extraordinary steps would be necessary to promote development there. This experiment of administration by a commission may be regarded, I think, as a prelude to the introduction of selfgovernment. It is essential to the progress of Australia that we- should give just as much attention to the development of this distant part of our dominion as to other parts with which we are better acquainted. I have heard very many opinions expressed as to the value of the Northern Territory and the possibilities of making it a great asset to the Commonwealth. Some people who have visited it have stated that it is a barren waste. Others have said that it may be made prolifically productive. I prefer to take the middle view. I can quite understand that one's views of the country, from a personal inspection of it, would depend very largely upon the season of the year in which he visited it. It appears to me that extensive tracts of country there can be made most useful to Australia. 
The Government has done wisely in introducing this proposal for the appointment of capable and efficient men to develop it. I agree with  Senator Findley  that the very best men available should be secured to discharge the important duties defined in this bill, and to pave the way for the introduction of self-government when the population warrants the adoption of that course. Conditions which apply to the Northern Territory do not apply to any other part of the Commonwealth, and for that reason the Government is justified in proposing this departure from the ordinary forms of -government.  Senator Pearce,  in introducing the bill, said that the Government had great hopes that a pronounced development would occur in the pastoral industry, and, to a less extent, in the mining industry, after this commission was appointed. He also referred to the possibility of agricultural development in the low-lying lands near the coast. 1 consider that his expectations of agricultural development arc very likely to be realized. It is well known that not very many years ago Queensland embarked on experiments in cotton-growing in her northern areas, with the result that cotton is now grown ou a commercial basis in that state. As a considerable amount of laud in the Northern Territory is similar to that of northern Queensland, I can see no reason why the Territory should not, in due course, contribute its full quota of the cotton production of Australia. I am looking forward to the time when we shall produce so much raw cotton in Australia that we will be able to manufacture here all the cotton textile fabrics that we require, and convert the material into wearing apparel and other articles. I took the opportunity this morning of studying the map which is hanging on your right,  Mr. President,  and I was impressed more than ever with the great possibilities that' might result from co-operation between the Governments of Queensland and Western Australia and the Commonwealth Government for developmental purposes in northern Australia. Many of the problems associated with the remote parts of those two states are identical with the problems which confront occupiers of land in the Northern Territory at present. I sincerely hope, therefore, that the proposals for co-operation will be carried to a successful issue. I have every confidence that the Government will appoint to this commission the best men available. It may be trusted to see that they have the requisite experience and ability to discharge the duties that will be entrusted to them. The provision in the bill that that part of the Northern Territory which is to be known as Central Australia shall be administered from Melbourne has a great deal to commend it. One of the difficulties in the way of the successful administration of this part of the Territory in the past has been that of maintaining close touch with Darwin; and one reason that has prevented development in the Territory generally, has been the absence of satisfactory means of communication with Melbourne. The great distances that have to be traversed have occasioned serious delays which have been prejudicial to development. I shall reserve any further remarks for the committee stage of the bill. In conclusion, I should like to express my gratification at the introduction of the bill, which, I hope, will do much for the development of that portion of Australia which hitherto has been languishing. 
I feel sure that honorable senators on both sides1 of the chamber are united in their appreciation of the fact that a measure for the development of the Northern Territory has been introduced. As previous speakers have remarked, the Territory in its present unoccupied state is a menace to the safety of the Commonwealth. It is gratifying, therefore, to know that the Government has1 put its shoulder to the wheel and is determined to push forward a scheme for the solution of this problem. It is determined that the Territory must progress. I do not agree with those who take the stand that previous experiments to develop the Territory have not been well-considered. I think they have. We must all fully appreciate the action of South Australia in assuming control of this vast Territory, thus preventing it from becoming a Crown colony, with all the drawbacks necessarily associated with that type of settlement. It is quite conceivable that, had South Australia not shouldered this responsibility, the Northern Territory, as a Crown colony, would have been developed along lines understandable at the time as being best suited for its settlement. I refer to the system of indentured labour. Had that policy been adopted, the Commonwealth,, when it took over the 
Territory, would have been burdened with a troublesome legacy. Therefore, the people of the Commonwealth should be deeply grateful to South Australia for having administered the Northern Territory at a time when its resources were exceedingly slender. The legacy left to the Commonwealth as the result of the employment of Chinese labour in the Territory was as nothing compared with those problems that flowed from the policy adopted in Queensland and elsewhere of allowing Chinese to take up gold-mining properties with the same freedom as white men, and from the introduction of Chinese at Gulgong and other places in New South Wales. The Commonwealth has suffered less from the action of South Australia in the Northern Territory than from this policy on the part of certain other states. I do not agree with the statement, made in some quarters, that the Commonwealth has not been liberal or sympathetic in its treatment of the Northern Territory. When I visited that portion of Australia some time ago, I endeavoured to ascertain, from those who are in the habit of complaining, what their real grievance was, to see if it was well founded. I asked those who might be regarded as authorities on the subject to tell me in what direction Commonwealth policy was not all that it should be. When I asked them if they thought that not enough money was being spent on the Territory, as a rule they could not say how much had really been expended by the Commonwealth. I have taken the trouble to ascertain. I find that since the Commonwealth assumed control of the Territory there has been a. total expenditure of nearly £5,000,000, or well over £100 per head of the white population in the whole of the Territory. There has not been the same lavish expenditure in other portions of the Commonwealth closely approximating the Northern Territory in climate and environment. For example, in that portion of Queensland Gulf country embracing the watershed of the Flinders, Gregory, Leichhardt and other Northern rivers, malaria and other endemic disorders present difficulties to development as great as those to be encountered in the Northern Territory. As a fact, the climate at Darwin is as good as the climate in any portion of the coastal fringe in Northern Australia, while on the Barkly Tablelands, as well as in the Victoria. River country, and down along the route of the overland telegraph Une, the climate is better than in northern Queensland. I also remind the Senate that the people in the north-west of Western Australia have to fight an equally hard battle. Have those portions of Australia been so&gt; favorably treated by the Commonwealth as the Northern Territory ? By no means. They have enjoyed only a fractional part of the expenditure incurred by the Commonwealth in the Northern Territory - only about £7 or £8 per head of the  population  . Th ese " grrouser s , " whom I met up there, could not very well complain of lack of public expenditure for the simple reason that, if they wanted more, the money would have to be fairly shovelled into the Territory. Their real trouble is that they completely fail to understand the magnitude of the problem involved in the development of such a vast area of tropical country by such a small community as we have in Australia. The history of the Panama Canal, extending over a period of nearly 400 years, should throw some light on this subject. It was not until the governmentof the United States had settled upon a scheme for the effective treatment of that fever-infested area, which was aptly, described as the white man's grave, that the gigantic undertaking was successful. In our attempt to develop the Northern Territory, with our small population and limited resources, experiments must necessarily be tried. The Batchelor farm and other ventures, though a failure, serve as an object-lesson of what not to do. It proved conclusively that that class of country cannot be successfully worked in small areas. The same may be said of the Daly River experiment. Thus they point the way for future schemes. Only the most optimistic person could expect the early experiments in settlement and colonizing to be successful. So far as the Batchelor farm and other experiments are concerned, the authorities were taking soundings in uncharted seas; they were endeavouring to discover the best policy for the development of the Northern Territory. In that portion of Australia there are two classes of persons! - the worthy class, comprising the pioneers, who, thank heaven ! are not all dead yet; and the "grousing" class - those people who will never get on well in any circumstances. They spend more time minding other people's business than their own. 
The worthy class was the means of discovering North Australia to the rest of Australia and to the wide world generally. It was a hardy type of man that opened up the northern peninsula about the Palmer goldfield, the feverinfested areas of the Gulf country, and the Kimberleys in the west. Such were the men who saved the situation in the past, and the fact that men of their type are still to be found in the north gives us cause to recall at every turn how necessary it is to further their interests as well as those of others who would throw in their lot with them. It is urged by some that the Government has been lacking in sympathy for the people in the Northern Territory. If the test be the liberal assistance granted from time to time out of revenue and loan moneys, it has been amply demonstrated that in this respect the Commonwealth Government has been in every way sympathetic to the people in the Territory. If the other test is applied, that of mapping out the land and demonstrating what it is capable of doing in one sphere or another, it has also been shown that the Government has been prepared to spend money in order to see what ought to be done and what ought to be avoided. 
I quite agree with  Senator Pearce  that the Territory is for the moment mainly a pastoral proposition. It is remote from the settled parts of Australia, and, so far as our knowledge of working tropical and eub-tropical land extends, is not a very invitiing place to go to. If the average citizen were given the choice he would much prefer to settle in the lowerRiverina of New South Wales, the southern portion of Queensland, the Atherton Tableland, even the most uninviting part of Victoria-- 
I was coming to that. I was leaving the best till the last. Coming from the Old Country the average citizen given the choice of settling in any part of the Territory, even the most pleasant or most inviting part of it, or in Western Australia, would infinitely prefer to go to Western Australia. And he would do so for a very simple reason. A man coming from a European country is naturally disinclined to go where he is obliged to work under a perpendicular sun. He prefers to work under a slanting sun such as he has been accustomed to. Naturally, he takes the line of least resistance - a point I shall refer to later on - but it has been shown that a man can work under a perpendicular sun or even under a sun slightly off the perpendicular and enjoy just as good health as he would when working in a temperate zone. The experience' of our people . in Queensland stands out in contradiction of the belief that a tropical sun injures one's health. Queensland is, in point of fact, a place where one has a better chance of living a longer life than he would have anywhere else. 
We are dealing with a Territory that lies in the tropical and sub-tropical zones, but yet contains some of the finest areas of soil to be found in any tropical or sub-tropical centre. The red markings on the map in the chamber, which set out the land, that has been taken up, do not by any means indicate all the good land in the Territory, and in this connexion I may say a few words in reply to some  remarks that honorable senators have made concerning the difficulty of promoting settlement under the existing' land-tenure system. For years I was in close touch with  Mr. William  Laurie, the original prospector of Tanami, which is situated about the 20th parallel of latitude - the line that . marks the northern boundary of proposed Central Australia - and is well below the Victoria River basin. Not an acre of that country has been taken up. It is not coloured on the map; it is a No Man's Land.  Mr. Laurie  wrote to me on several occasions. I did what little I could to enable the hardy band of pioneers located at Tanami to carry on under the great privations they had to endure. I got them a mail service, water supply, and other things, and I did not find a Minister who would turn a deaf ear to any representations made to him on behalf of the pioneers of the Territory.  Mr. Laurie,  who is now deceased, told me that on one occasion his camels were lost. He found them from 70 to 100 miles south of Tanami, not far from the boundary of Western Australia. They were mud fat, fatter than when he had them about Tanami. In searching for them he came across country of very good description, and found colours of gold in various creeks and spots he sampled.  His  story has since been supplemented in a very substantial and reliable way by another prospector,  Mr. Jack  Wickham, who arrived at Laurie's camp one night from the unknown country west of Alice Springs. He told how he had discovered a fresh water lake 30 miles across; how he had come across wild fowl in abundance; natives in huge numbers, and well cared for and friendly; and how the country around the lake was of splendid quality. That lake is out in that No Man's Land, where any one who chooses can take up land. When we are told that there is no chance for the Territory to progress under the existing system of land tenure, the answer is that if a man has any money to spare he can take up land in this area and make it a success. And this area lies about 350 miles from the important seaport of Wyndham. There is also the encouraging story told me by  Mr. Tom  Laurie. Amongst some stores brought out from Hall's Creek to Tanami there were samples ofwheat, which he threw out on the rubbish tip. In a very short while that wheat grew until it was 3 feet high and bore splendid heads. Upon hearing this story from  Mr. Laurie,  I obtained samples of wheat from the Agricultural Department in Victoria and forwarded them to him. Unfortunately, however, his brother died and his plans for the moment were so disarranged that he was not able to follow up the experiment. We all thought such an experiment would be useful as likely to indicate that the country round Tanami from a wheat-growing point- of view, would be well within the bounds of good hope. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.30 to8 p.m. 

Before the adjournment I was directing the attention of honorable senators to the map of the Northern Territory displayed in the Senate, and pointing out that it docs not give a true indication of the extent of the area that is available for settlement. . I took it upon myself during the adjournment to pin a piece of blue ribbon to a bare patch on the map. Honorable senators well understand that the portion marked white represents Crown land that has not yet been settled upon. Tanami gold-field lies at the northern point of that piece of blue ribbon, and on the northern boun dary line of the suggested Central Australia area. The discoverer of Tanami,  Mr. Laurie,  told me that he saw growing there wheat 3 feet high, and the season was not an abnormal one. He also said that on his frequent trips to Hall's Creek for supplies he found the country looking like a waving field of wheat. Those experiences, in conjunction with the story told by the prospector,  Mr. Jack  Wickham, who came from a point due west of Alice Springs, prove that that portion of the Territory which is at present unoccupied is capable of being settled with a prosperous and thriving population. On the authority of those who have been there and know the country, it can be said that there is ample scope for the settlement of hundreds of thousands" of acres, if not of square miles, of that area. I suppose that honorable senators are aware that the northern part of the Territory is thought to be not of the same value as the southern portion. The country from the northern coast line to a point about 150 miles to the south is supposed to be waste land that is incapable of being turned to practical account. Those who read the daily press, I am sure were gratified to learn recently that a shipment of bullocks taken from a spot less than 100 miles from Darwin averaged in the neighbourhood of 7 cwt. each. They were shipped from Darwin to Java. The area in which they were raised has hitherto been regarded as the worst part of the Territory, or at least as not being deserving of immediate attention from the government or potential settlers. I think that we are spoilt children of nature; we use only the best land, and refuse to work any that is at all inferior. In the neighbourhood of Darwin I saw land on which there was dense scrub. That clearly indicated to me that it possessed quality and substance. Yet on the map it is designated as worthless ! I believe that history will repeat itself, and that some time in the future, when the first quality is exhausted, the people of Australia will have to be content with the second and third best land. The time will come when every inch of that Territory will be taken up and cultivated. 
I suppose no question is more widely, debated and canvassed than that of whether the Territory, or even Northern Australia,  is  a white man's land. I believe that it is. I am- convinced that, with the exception of certain areas which suffer from miasmatic troubles, Northern Australia is essentially a place where a white man, having undergone the process of acclimatization, and paid due regard to correct methods of hygiene, may make his permanent home. 
We are not troubled with such trifles at present; we are considering the development of a continent. We want to devise a plan whereby this immense territory, which is the common heritage of the whole of the people of Australia, may be settled and developed. When that has been done, we can consider whether there shall be a four-hour, an eight-hour, or a 24-hour day. I remind this young man  (Senator McHugh)  that the pioneers who settled in Northern Australia did not practise an eight-hour day. As often as not, they worked 20 hours out of the 24 to achieve their object. If we do not promptly deal with the problem of developing the Territory, by all the rules that govern the spread of population throughout the world we deserve to lose it. We cannot for ever sit down and put up a placard saying to the world, "Keep off this plot." Those people who receive that notice will ask, "By what right does this handful of people - this population of 5,000,000 - thus challenge the world?" 
What braggadocio! Such a notice, at any time, is presumptuous. The present inhabitants of Australia came here in obedience to a law which has been in operation ever since the children of Abraham left their father's house. We came here because we found the Old Country too circumscribed and too cramped for our ambitions. We found this continent inhabited by a primeval race. Briefly and effectively, those people were given the notice to "Keep off the grass," to stand aside and enable us to show them that this continent could be put to a better use than that to which they were putting it. That black race were the rightful owners of this soil. Just as we issued an injunction to them, so it is possible for some other race to bear down upon us and judge us by standards similar to those that we applied. We have no justification for saying, " This is our country " unless we put it to its maximum use. A scheme for doing so is now engaging our attention. It is quite true that efforts in that direction have been frustrated and nullified by the very men in whose interests the policy of making this a white man's preserve was instituted. In the most misguided way possible, certain persons at Darwin have availed themselves of every opportunity - unfortunately with a good deal of success - to bring to a stand-still the chief industry in the Territory, and prevent the settlement of its lands. Yet they talk about the necessity for filling the present untenanted spaces, and urge this, that, and the other kind of reform. I have spoken in this strain on occasions when I thought the greatest advantage was to be gained; but coming from me, the same effect is not gained as would be possible if honorable senators opposite exerted their influence in the same direction. Those honorable senators say in private what they dare not say in public. 
Of course, all honorable senators do! When the enemy comes in sight, I suppose the extremists of the latter-day Labour party will preach the doctrine of the brotherhood of man, and warn off cruisers carrying 16- inch guns that have been constructed outside Australia for our defence! 
Order! The honorable senator is interjecting too freely. 
I have been striding back this afternoon to my schoolboy days. I have been studying the position on the map of this island continent of ours and its relation to- other countries of the world - a pastime which, in my school days, I always found most absorbing. I ask honorable senators at the outset to- conjure up in their minds a huge square templet covering the sector which Australia occupies on the map of the world to-day, and particularly that part of it which may be said to closely hinge on the equator. Let us turn this  templet  over, as it were, on to the northern hemisphere on its hinges on the equator. Let us ask ourselves where this country lies in relation to the peoples and countries of the northern hemisphere, and what relation the problem now before us bears to the problems that confronted the older countries in centuries gone by. It is an interesting study. It is quite true that the civilization of these countries of the northern hemisphere is much older than our own; but we should avail ourselves of the opportunity to study the relative position of Australia and those countries in regard to- anthropological, climatological, and also hygienic conditions. In turning this templet over, we find that the line corresponding with the 40th parallel of southern latitude, in which Bass Strait lies, in the case of the old world runs through Central Mongolia, Thibet, Asia Minor, the toe of Italy, and the centre of Spain. That line is south of the whole area of the Commonwealth with the exception of Tas mania, and, as honorable, senators know, for a great "period countries on a great part of that line in the old world were not the habitat of the white man at all. Let us ask ourselves who have sprung from that particular sector, and what figures they have cut in history. There was, among others, Attila, whose legions thundered against the walls of Rome, and brought its civilization almost to dust. There were also Tamerlane, Genghis Khan and others. So that from this region sprang some mighty figures who engraved their names in large letters on the pages of time. If we proceed 10 deg. northwards to the 30th parallel of southern latitude, which, so far as the Commonwealth is concerned, commences at Grafton, in New South Wales, and stretches through the continent to Carnarvon, in Western Australia, we find that it takes in,, so to speak, the temperate portion of Australia. The corresponding line in the northern hemisphere goes through Central China, the Lower Himalayas, lower Persia, northern Arabia, the Barbary States of Africa, and right- on through the new world. From that area also came men who, in the past, pitted their strength, endurance, and skill against the rest of the world. There waa Darius and also Hannibal, the inveterate foes of Greece and Rome, who, when Rome- was at its very zenith, in turn, threatened its supremacy. We have read how Hannibal marched his troops from Carthage into the Iberian Peninsula, and over the Alps, performing feats of which even military engineers of to-day read with profound amazement. Along the corresponding line which marks the influence of the tropical or perpendicular sun arose, in the past, men of outstanding capacity. The line in the northern hemisphere corresponding with the 30th parallel of southern latitude - which, as I have said, runs through the Commonwealth from Grafton, in the east, to Carnarvon, in the west - cuts, in the New World, ths neck of Florida, skims the Gulf of Mexico, and runs through southern California. Above that particular line of latitude in the New World it was thought necessary to supplement the white man's efforts by cheap labour from Africa and elsewhere. We would not dream of introducing black labour to work the country below the 30th parallel of south latitude. "We never seriously thought of doing such a thing; but we know what America did. Ever since slaves were taken in battle, the employment of cheap labour, with the solitary exception of our own case, has always been, in every age and clime, a purely economic matter. It has always been a matter of the white man, as Lord Brougham said, asserting dominion and authority over his fellows and employing black, brown, or brindle labour to assist him in his worldly selfish pursuits. When America was drenched in blood - when brother was fighting against brother - the dominant thought in the southern states was that the southern part of North America could not be successfully developed except by slave labour from Africa. We have travelled along the road of history a bit further, and are to-day in the happy position of not being put to the necessity of adopting the same expedient in this country. "Passing 10. deg. further north, we come to the 20th parallel of south latitude, which begins, so far as the Commonwealth is concerned, at Bowen, in Queensland, passes through intensely fertile country in its course through the interior and emerges at Broome, in Western Australia. The corresponding line in the Old World passes through North Cochin-Ohina, the heart of India, southern Arabia, the Lower Soudan, and the Lower Sahara. Those names would not suggest a white man's domicile, but no one acquainted with the country on the 20th parallel of latitude in the southern hemisphere, concerning which I know a little, would dream of asserting that it was not essentially and demonstrably a white man's country. The other 10 degrees includes territory concerning the development of which there is a problem for every one to solve. A further 10 degrees north from that to which I have just referred would take us right into the ocean, but not a great distance north of Cape Yorke. The 10 degrees mentioned, practically speaking, embraces within its area that territory in the development of which there is a problem for our Australian statesmen and scientists to solve. In the corresponding zone in the northern hemisphere all the arguments that ancient or modern civilization could mustier have been brought to bear on the solution of mighty problems affecting the white man's permanent domicile therein. They have all failed except a recent one, to which I shall refer. It is interesting to note that Timbuctoo is in the same latitude as Wyndham in Western Australia, and Cooktown in Queensland. How to develop and manage that area, and how to stand four-square against the charge levelled at our system, is the problem which we have to seriously consider. In the area south of the 20th parallel of latitude we should be able to raise as intelligent and progressive a race as has been raised in any part of the world, and, as a matter of fact, we are doing so to-day. In Australia we are supplying proof of what can be done. America also had her problem to solve, but because of her latitudinal position it was an easier proposition. We are solving the problem for the benefit of the whole world, and are endeavouring to prove that the white man's standard can be planted nearer to the equator than it has ever been planted in any country or in any age. The Romans made the attempt in Northern Africa, but failed. Julius Caesar sent Marius there, but the bones of his legions - "the iron hammers of the world" - were left there for the birds to pick. The area north of the 20th degree of latitude contains the most fertile land, acre for acre, that is to be found in any country? The Northern Territory, in proportion to its area, contains as much fertile land as any other area of which I know. There are, of course, certain picked spots of equal fertility in North and Central America, just as there are in other countries. But, taken as a whole, the land in the Northern Territory compares more than favorably with that of other countries. Instead of belittling the Territory, we should regard it as a fine asset for this country to possess, and its effective settlement is a problem we hope to solve at no distant date. Just as this country has demonstrated that white settlement can be undertaken from the 20th parallel of latitude upwards, so others have been engaged upon the same problems, and with very satisfactory results. 
We have to remember what the Americans have done in Panama. For hundreds of years they tried in vain to oe.al effectively with it, and whoever wen there regarded it as a white man's grave. The French Government in turn took up  the work, and endeavoured to cut a canal through the isthmus. Their efforts ended in failure, because up to that time they did not know sufficient concerning tropical lands and how to work them, nor were they able to bring medical science and hygiene to their aid. The French people expended 300,000,000 dollars on the canal, all to no purpose, but later the American Government, by the expenditure of an additional 75,000,000 dollars, made a success of the undertaking. The question is, " How did they do it?" Those who had been operating in the past were losing half of their men, but in the end they considered the hygienic problem and discovered means of overcoming yellow fever, malaria, and other allied disorders. The success eventually achieved is known throughout the world to-day. Panama, instead of being a fever-infested area, is relatively healthy, and a place where a white man can live in comparative comfort and propagate his species. The following is a short quotation from a book entitled  The Panavia Canal and its Makers,  by Vaughan Cornish, to show the struggles which the American Government had to overcome before it got its canal through Panama - 
Thus the yellow fever, having taken  toll  for 400 years of those who crossed the Isthmus, has been  completely eradicated  by Colonel Gorgas and bis assistants. It is  a triumph  of science and  despotic government combined,  and only in this  combination  can  preventive  medicine  achieve  full success. 
That appears on page 130 of the book. On the question of whether white men can live in tropical locations, I wish . to quote a statement by Colonel Gorgas. 
I have been following the honorable senator closely, and I understand that he is quoting authorities to show that the Northern Territory, with which this bill deals, is capable of successful development.  His  remarks, therefore, are quite in order. 
I  think  the  sanitarian'  can now  show  that any  population coming into  the  tropics  can  protect  itself against these two diseases (malaria and yellow fever) by measures that, are both simple and inexpensive; that with these two diseases eliminated life in the tropics for the AngloSaxon will be more healthful than in the temperate zones; that gradually, within the next two or three centuries, tropical countries, which offer a much greater return for man's labour than do the temperate zones, will be settled up by the white races, and that again the centres of wealth, civilization, and population will be in the tropics, as they were in the dawn of man's history, rather than in the temperate zone, as at present. 
Honorable senators can accept those views for what they are worth, but they are the considered opinion of a man who studied the subject, and who worked in the great and successful national endeavour to make the Panama Canal zone a place in which white men could live and thrive. He was mainly responsible for that. The experience at Panama is most hopeful and encouraging to us, for it shows that even the worst tropical zones can be made suitable for occupation by white men. 
The policy of a White Australia presents no difficulties beyond those of organization, staff, time and money, and such is the considered opinion of the Australasian Medical Congress of 1920, as will be seen from the following extract from the "Report of the Discussions  at  the Australian Medical Congress at Brisbane, 27th August, 1920 " : - 
After mature consideration of- sources of information embodying the results of long and varied professional experience and observation in the Australian tropics the Congress is unable to find anything pointing to the existence of inherent or insuperable obstacles in the way of the permanent occupation of tropical Australia by a healthy indigenous white race. lt considers that the whole question of successful development of tropical Australia by white races is fundamentally a question of applied public health in the modern sense, such as has been demonstrated and practised with success among civil populations under far more difficult conditions, by the American authorities in the Philippines prior to the Great War, and throughout the War, and by military forces of every allied power during that war. 
Thus we have it, on the authority of our own scientific men who have studied the problem on the spot, that the settlement of tropical Australia offers no insurmountable difficulties, and that we can look forward with every confidence to its consummation. I believe that if we adjust ourselves to tropical conditions, face the problems squarely, take our courage in our hands and deal drastically with those social elements which in the immediate past have brought the wheels of industry to a stand-still in the Northern Territory, we can settle a prosperous white people there. We must do so to make our position safe and our defence invulnerable. We must populate this country and make use of it, or we shall forfeit our right to hold it. -  ^Extension of time granted.]  - The other points that I wish to refer to deal with the financial position and the position of the states whose co-operation is sought. Reference has been made to the proposals that have been submitted to Western Australia and Queensland to co-operate with the Government in working out this big scheme. I am justified in calling it a big scheme. As a matter of fact, it is the best thoughtout, most matured, and comprehensive proposal that has been made to the people of Australia for the development of the Northern Territory since it has been under Commonwealth control. 
Order!  Senator McHugh  has been continually interjecting. I have borne very patiently with him, but I shall not tolerate his interjections much longer. 
I have already warned  Senator McHugh,  and I shall not warn him again. I hope that he will allow  Senator Lynch  to continue his speech without further interruption. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Grant)  adjourned. 
In moving - 
That the Senate do now' adjourn, 
I should like to say that I hope honorable senators to-morrow will come prepared to continue the debate on the Northern Australia Bill. 
Some years ago, when I visited Port Augusta, in South Australia, I saw a very large number of arm chairs, the peculiar design of which attracted my attention. They were so unsuitable that they appeared to be left on hand. Later, I found that the Federal members' room in Sydney was furnished with those chairs, and also with a peculiar kind of table, remarkable for its sharp corners. No other tables of the same kind are to be found in any of the Commonwealth public offices. They appear to have been reserved exclusively for Federal members. The furniture in this chamber, as honorable senators will notice, is all rounded at the corners to prevent accidents. I refer to this matter now, because it has come under my notice that it is intended to furnish the provisional parliamentary buildings at Canberra with a type of desk which, I think, should not be tolerated. It is too low and too sharp at the corners. There is nothing wrong with the material or the workmanship, but the design is extremely faulty. Whoever wes responsible should be informed that it is not suitable for the requirements of members. I understand that the sample desk on view in the .Senate club-room has been inspected by several members of both Houses, and that all  have   some fault to find with it. It is supposed to be a double desk. Why that design should have been selected I am at a loss to understand. Each desk ought to be entirely separate, and all the corners should be nicely rounded off. I hope that steps  will be taken without delay to indicate to the responsible authorities that the proposed design is unsuitable. 
. -I can assure  Senator Grant  that I will bring the matter under the notice of the Minister for Works andRail ways  (Mr. Hill).  I should like to say, however, that  Senator Grant's  reference to the accommodation provided for Federal members in Sydney was rather unfortunate. I do not begrudge New South Wales members the magnificent reading room, and other accommodation which they enjoy in Sydney, but I remind them that Federal members in the other states have nothing approaching it. If honorable senators are as well treated at Canberra, they should be well satisfied. I hope that the desk which  Senator Grant  will occupy at Canberra will be more comfortable than that which, I understand, he used earlier in his life. In imagination I can see the honorable senator, sitting at a desk with a map of the world in front of him, instructing others from it for the good of mankind. I shall bring the matter he mentioned under the notice of the responsible Minister, but I shall also intimate that the accommodation provided for the Federal members in Sydney would, at all events, be good enough for me. 
Before putting the question, I should like to say, for the information of  Senator Grant  and other honorable senators, that, the sample bench and desk were placed in the Senate club-room for inspection by honorable senators, who were invited by notice placed on them, to makesuggestions. Instead of doing that,  Senator Grant  has indulged in this tirade in tho Senate. 
Every honorable senator is aware that the design has not yet been finally adopted. The bench and desk were placed in the Senate club- room for inspection and in order that honorable senators might make suggestions. That was the proper course for  Senator Grant  to pursue. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned al 8.56 p.m. 
I ask the Minister for Markets and Migration is he aware that the decision of the Government as to assistance for hop-growers in Tasmania is being anxiously awaited by those concerned, and, further, is he aware that thegrowers are absolutely dependent upon such assistance to enable them to cultivate their land and string their hops, and that failure to do this means ruin to them? 
The subject mentioned by the honorable senator hasbeen receiving the careful attention of the Cabinet. The Government realizes the difficulties of the Tasmanian hop-growers, and it is hoped thata decision will be come toat an early date. 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General if the Bankruptcy Act, passed last session, is now in operation, and, if not, when will the measure be given effect to? 
The AttorneyGeneral has advised me that he hopes that the necessary action will betaken very soon. 
asked the Minister for Home and Territories,  uponnotice - 
What were the number, sex, nationality, and offences of persons deported from Australia for the twelve months ended 30th June, 1925? 
Will the Minister supply similar information for the six months ended 30th June, 1925? 
The information asked for by the honorable senator will be found in the attached statement: - 
Statement showing particulars of persons deported underthe Immigration Act 1920-1924, during (a) twelve months ended the 30th June, 1925, and (b) six months ended the30th June, 1925: - 

<graphic href="110332192507095_0_0.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
Has a report for the year ending90th June,1925,been receivedfromtheFederal Capital Commission:andifso,whenwillit be made availableformembers? 
No. The commission is required to furnish annually a report on its control and management of the affairs in the Territory during the preceding year, but as it has only been functioning since the beginning of the present year, the first annual report will not be available until after December next. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works and Railways,  upon notice - 
Whether it is intended to confer with the state Ministers regarding the allocation and expenditure of the federal road grant beforo regulations arc finalized. 
Arrangements for a conference could not be made to deal with this year's grant, but later in the year the Commonwealth Minister for Works and Railways proposes to confer with the Works Minister of each state on the whole question of federal roads grants. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the Minister noticed a report in the  Aye  newspaper of 8th July, 1025, to the effect that an agreement involving the inclusion of the conditions secured to seamen prior to deregistration has been entered into by the Commonwealth Shipping Board and the transport unions ? 
Has this action of the Shipping Board the concurrence or disapproval of the Government? 
The Prime Minister supplies the following answers to the honorable senator's questions: - 
.  Yes. 
The Commonwealth Shipping Board was granted by Parliament full powers in connexion with tile internal administration and control of the Line, and the Government was not consulted with regard to the above agreement. 
The Minister for Defence supplies the following answers to the honorable senator's questions :  - 1 and 2. Yes. 
The original contract has expired, and the current agreement does not - require the company to maintain a service which includes Brisbane in its schedule. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Whether, in view of the approaching visit of the United States Fleet to this country, and the reasonable assumption that such visit is intended by the United States of America to deepen the cordial relations between that country and this, the Government will acknowledge the compliment by way of opening up negotiations with the United States ' of America for the purpose of arriving at a trade reciprocity arrangement on a basis mutually advantageous to both countries. 
The suggestion of the honorable senator will receive consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Whether it has been calculated what the effectof the settlement just arrived at with the seamen will be on last year's deficit of over £500,000 and on next year's balance-sheet of the Commonwealth Shipping Line? 
If that loss is repeated in a greater or less form, how does the board propose to make good such loss? 
In either event, will the board depend on tho taxpayers, or an increase of freights and fares, to square the balance-sheet? 
The Prime Minister supplies tho following answer to the honorable senator's questions: - 
I will bring the honorable senator's questions under the notice of the Commonwealth Shipping Board for comment, and will further inform him as early as possible. 
The measure now under discussion is of a most important character, and it is almost impossible to realize how far-reaching its provisions may be. It is to be regretted that a much larger proportion of members of the Federal Parliament have not had an opportunity, or have not embraced the facilities placed at their disposal by the Government, to visit at least portions of the Northern Territory. After perusing the measure I think I can go so far as to say that it provides only a very small step forward. The bill deals, not only with the Northern Territory as we know it, but also with a portion of western Queensland, and certain territory in the north-eastern portion of "Western Australia. It would appear from the figures placed at our disposal that the area consists of the whole of that portion of the Northern Territory north of the 20th parallel of south latitude containing approximately 2S7,227 square miles, territory in "Western Australia comprising 120,500 square miles, and a certain area in Queensland consisting of 38,000 square miles, or a total of 445,727 square miles. So far as can be ascertained at present the population of the Northern Territory fluctuates, and now numbers about 2,240 whites, and 1,018 coloured people, or a total of 3,258. The population of the areas in Queensland and "Western Australia covered by the bill, when added to that of the Northern Territory, approximates 4,000 white persons. With due respect to the opinions expressed by other honorable senators who have preceded me in discussing this measure, I believe that the men and women who have- taken up resi dence in the northern portion of Australia are just as enterprising as, and perhaps more so than, any other persons in the Commonwealth. There is generally reluctance on the part of any Minister to relax his authority, and I do not think this bill goes far enough in the matter of conferring local government upon the people resident in the north. Although I believe steps have been taken to extend to a small degree the system of local government previously in operation in Papua and the Mandated Territories, at present local government there is purely nominal. When the Commonwealth took over the Northern Territory from South Australia the debt of the Territory was £3,901,086, or approximately £8 per square mile. Since the' Com. monwealth has had control, the debt up to the 30th June, 1924, has increased to £7,791,130, or approximately . £14 per square mile. According to the accounts published the deficit last year amounted to £243,762, and it is still increasing. In his lengthy second-reading speech, $e Minister  (Senator Pearce),  did not give any reason why it is proposed to assume control over a portion of Queensland and of Western Australia. I do not know how these states stand financially at present, but I do not think either of them is accumulating debt to the same extent that the Northern Territory has been doing during the period under which it has been controlled by the Federal authority. Upon that point, however, I speak subject to correction. The Minister did not tell us whether either of the states was agreeable to hand over any portion of its territory to be administered , by the proposed commission, and I do not think any attempt should be made to apply the bill to state territory until the approval of the states concerned has been obtained. 
No. Queensland and Western Australia have complete control of their own territory, and I feel sure that any area proposed to be transferred is as well developed as is the Northern Territory. In  these circumstances I am not prepared to entertain the idea of asking the states to hand over, either temporarily or in any other way, the control of any portions of their territory. It is proposed that eventually the commission shall be located at Newcastle Waters, but, unfortunately, the Government have not fixed » definite time for the transfer. If we look at the history of South American republics we find that it has taken very many years to accomplish the transfer of a seat of government, because there has been no definite time fixed for the transfer to take place. Coming nearer home, many people were under the impression when they agreed to federation that the Commonwealth Parliament would meet at the Federal Capital to be established in New South Wales. They overlooked the cunning wording of the section of the Constitution Act which provides that the Parliament shall sit at Melbourne until it meets at Canberra. 
I do not see the connexion between Canberra and the proposal in the bill. 
I cannot allow the honorable senator under the cover of this bill to discuss the meeting of the Federal Parliament at Canberra. The honorable senator will have ample opportunity of discussing that matter on other occasions. 
The honorable senator is entitled to do so so long as he keeps within the scope of the bill; but he must not disobey my ruling. 
-The honorable senator has referred to that matter two or three times. He has said quite enough about it to illustrate his argument, and I cannot allow him to refer to it again. 
The honorable senator is entitled to discuss the bill, but not to give an instruction to the Chair. 
The honorable senator is deliberately disobeying the instructions of the Chair. It is the last time I shall warn him. The next time he offends I shall be obliged to take appropriate action. 

 Pastoral, Leases.- On the 30th June, 1924, there were in existence 451 leases comprising an area of 113,530,560 acres, with an annual rental of £18,27911s.11d. Of this amount the sum of £15,685 4s. 9d. was received, being a decrease of £131 13s. on the previous year's collections. The leases granted under the South Australian act number 210, and comprise an area of 96,642¾ square miles, with a total annual rental of £8,165 17s. 2d., and 241 leases comprising 80,748¼ square miles, with a total annual rental of £10,113 14s. 9d., are under the provisions of the Crown Lands Ordinance 1912-23. 
That paragraph indicates clearly that a substantial portion of the Territory is at present leased for very long periods at rentals which, I take it, are practically fixed, and the total rental for the 113,530,560 acres is only £18,27911s. 11d. per annum. The sum collected - £15,685 4s. 9d. - showed a slight decrease. 
I am glad that honorable senators opposite have looked at this bill in a broadminded way, and not in a party spirit. It places a very big question in front of us, and honorable senators are to be congratulated upon treating it as they have done. The Government is to be commended for making a practical and an honest attempt to do something with our vast empty north. Tie Northern Territory contains 520,620 square miles of country, and is six times the size of Victoria, but according to the latest census figures it is inhabited by only 3,572 people. I think I am justified in saying that since it has been under Commonwealth control it has been the plaything of politicians. With so many of us, who live away down here in the south under such totally different climatic conditions, it has been a case, with the Northern Territory, of " Out of sight, out of mind." The Territory is so inaccessible to us, and we have had so few opportunities of informing ourselves of its potentialities, that we have practically forgotten it. 
That is so, and some very difficult and hard pioneering work has been done, as I shall endeavour to explain. I do not altogether blame past or present Ministers or Governments for the almost total failure to take any practical steps to settle and develop the Territory, for the difficulties to be overcome are tremendous. The point I wish to emphasize is that the position of the Territory is by no means hopeless. I waa glad to hear  Senator Findley  say yesterday that the Government ought to appoint the best men available to this commission, irrespective of expense. The amount of money that we spend in salaries to the commission is really of very little importance. The development of this Territory constitutes such a big problem, and is of such vast importance to Australia and the Empire, that the very best men should be secured to do the work. 
That is so. The sparse population of the Territory, its huge coastline, and its vast area constitute problems of peculiar difficulty ; but something must be done with it. We must look at the position in a practical and dispassionate way. At present the Northern Territory is entirely a pastoral proposition, and just as the various states of the Commonwealth were developed, in the first place, by pastoralists, so I believe the Northern Territory must be. 
Pastoral arid mining. I confine my remarks chiefly to the possibilities of the Northern Territory from the stand-point of the pastoral industry, because I know something of its pastoral possibilities and practically nothing of mining. I realize, however, that Western Australia and other states would never have been opened up so soon but for the lure of gold. But the problem in the Northern Territory is almost entirely pastoral. A vast area in that magnificent country has a surer rainfall and a better climate than many other parts of Australia. It is our bounden duty to increase our flocks and herds, which form the basis of our greatest wealth-producing industry. Of all the Ministers who have had . administrative authority over the Northern Territory - and I followed politics pertaining to the Territory long before I entered this Parliament - none has shown anything , like the grip or breadth of outlook in dealing with Northern Territory problems as has  Senator Pearce.  The bill which he so lucidly explained has much to commend it. I think it is a good idea to divide the Territory, as suggested, into two states. Whether they be called Central and North Australia does not matter very much. Originally, that part of Australia was called the Northern Territory of South Australia, but that was distinctly a misnomer. As the Territory, for some reason or other, but partly  through government bungling, is in illrepute with investors and people generally, it would, perhaps, be advisable to make some change in the name. I do not think, however,  that  the proposed new states should be named after members of Parliament, however estimable my colleagues may be, because this would probably engender a feeling of jealousy in some quarters; and, after all, we must confess that members of Parliament have not done so much for the Northern Territory as did the early explorers and pioneers. If any changes are to be made at all, we should preferably attach the names of early explorers to that portion of the Commonwealth. Some were/ wonderful men,  who  blazed the trail across the continent without any of the facilities of travel now at the disposal of pioneering travellers. They are the men whose names, if any, should be enshrined in that portion of Australia. 
I forget no one. As an Australian, I revere the names of all those men and women who faced the hardships inseparable from the pioneering life and did such yeoman service in opening up our out-back country. It is immaterial by what name we call the Northern Territory. Our first duty is to settle and develop our dangerously empty north. The Territory has been thoughtlessly condemned by many, who ought to know better, as a white elephant - as a useless waste area that will never be of any benefit to Australia. The expression of such opinions is to be very much deprecated. On the other hand, there are people who, in newspaper articles and speeches on the public platform, speak of the Northern Teritory as a land flowing with milk and honey, suitable for closer settlement and agriculture. It is not, and for many years will not, be an agricultural country. After many years of practical experience I have come to the conclusion that it is unwise to describe any part of Australia as useless. As a young man, I was inclined to agree with those who spoke disparagingly of our outback country, but experience, travel, and observation have changed my views. I well remember when the great mallee country in the north-west of Victoria was described by the public, members of Parliament, and the press as absolutely useless. 
When first I knew the Mallee it was a wilderness in every sense of the word. Before we thought of growing wheat there, my family had practical experience in a heart-breaking undertaking. We lost a great deal of money trying to run sheep in that country. At that time it was indeed a howling wilderness, and apparently was almost useless. This is why people got into the habit of describing any dry country as valueless. I shall never do so again. There is no part of Australia, not excepting even the Nullabour Plains, which I crossed the other day, that I would describe as useless, because I know what can be done with apparently poor land by intelligent treatment under modern conditions of cultivation. Victoria owes a great deal to the late  Mr. Lascelles,  who devised means to get rid of the mallee scrub and make the land arable, and who, in addition, was responsible for the construction by private enterprise of the railway to Hopetoun. The government of the "day, regarding themallee country as valueless, would have nothing to do with the proposal. What is the position to-day? The great mallee country may fittingly be described as a waving wheat-field, and one of the richest provinces in Victoria. The wheat yield in the north-west of this state is enormous, and is increasing every year. The Government has built railways through it, and returned soldiers who have been settled on that country on liberal terms are, I think, doing better . than returned soldiers settled in any other part of Australia. There is still a considerable area of crown lands in the Mallee available for future settlement. That country- which a few years ago was regarded as useless, is now producing millions of bushels of wheat annually, as well as large numbers of fat lambs, fat sheep, and wool. What has been done there is a wonderful object lesson of what may be possible in other parts of Australia. The history of Australian development is romantic and inspiring. Unlike the pioneers of many other countries, notably South Africa, our early settlers were not called upon to wage war against the indigenous tribes, but they had to fight isolation, droughts, extraordinary hardships, and unsympathetic legislation. In spite of all their difficulties they blazed the trail, and whilst very few of them reaped the full reward of their courage and industry, they made it possible for those who followed them to make good. For this Australia owes them a deep debt of gratitude. On one occasion when in Sydney an inspector of pastoral properties, who probably had inspected more holdings than any other man in Australia, said he was prepared to make a wager that . he could not take a buggy and pair from Sydney through to the Gulf of Carpentaria without passing through properties, the pioneers of which had all failed, either through droughts, low prices, or pressure by financial institutions. I do not know enough about the Northern Territory to say whether certain agricultural products such as cotton and tobacco, can be grown there,' but I feel pretty certain that wheat will not be successfully cultivated in that portion of Australia, because, as is the case in South Africa, the rain comes at the wrong time. 
I agree with the honorable senator, but we have the experience of South Africa to guide us. Because the rain comes at the wrong time South Africa cannot grow enough wheat for its own requirements. For the same reason I doubt if wheat will ever be successfully grown in the Northern Territory. The rain comes at the wrong time of the year, and then it is too heavy. I remember on one occasion a fall of 19 inches in 24 hours on the Barkly Tablelands. That certainly would have destroyed all wheat crops. As a matter of fact, it killed quite a number of sheep and lambs. It was, of course, a phenomenal fall. 
On one occasion I was present at a dinner given - I think it must have been by a Labour Government - at the Oriental Hotel, in Melbourne. It was one of the most amusing functions I have ever attended, because the greater the quantity of wine consumed - and there were ample supplies of champagne available: - the more enthusiastic became the guests concerning the possibilities of the Northern Territory, which, at that time, had only recently been taken.-, over by the Commonwealth. Early in the evening speakerssuggested that blocks of 100 square miles should be made available to settlers; but, as the function proceeded, many said that blocks of 100 acres in extent would be ample, and that the production of strawberries and tomatoes could be profitably undertaken for supplying "-the early markets in Sydney and Melbourne. When I left the gathering, which was fairly early in the morning, none of theguests was suffering from " D.T's.", but many had what might be termed the ''NTs.", so enthusiastic were they about closer settlement in the Northern Territory. At that gathering it was freely stated, as theevening wore on and the wine flowed freely, that the Northern Territory should be subdivided into farms of approximately 320 acres, and thus theso-called beef baron's and pastoralists who were then in occupation of certain portions of. the Territory should be taxed off the country. I  was requested to make a speech,- because, L believe, I was the only one present who had any experience whatsoever of the Northern Territory. 
As the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  in his able .second-reading speech pointed out, the coastline of the Northern Territory differs very largely from the coastline of Queensland and New South "Wales, in that it consists of very poor country. On the coastal areas in the Northern Territory very heavy tropical rains are experienced, but the land is comparatively poor, and consequently, these lands will be exceedingly difficult to economically settle. I do not know sufficient concerning the conditions to offer suggestions as to how. the coastal country should be developed; that is a question for practical men to settle. There is, however, a huge area of good horse and cattle country; there are also large tracts of land which, as yet, are unsuitable for any. kind of settlement. Honorable senators who have visited the Territory during a record good season may think that there is little unsuitable land, but those who have studied the history of the Northern Territory as I have, since 1882, will understand what I mean. After closely studying the reports of early explorers and pioneer pastoralists, and perusing maps, I have come to the conclusion that in normal years portions of the Northern Territory are quite unsuitable for ordinary settlement. There is, however, good land eminently suitable for the production of beef, and on which fins horses can be raised. By far the best country in the Northern Territory is the Barkly Tablelands, which consist of limestone country, on which Red Flinders and Mitchell grass grow luxuriantly, and it is, therefore, an excellent grazing proposition. In this connexion, I desire to quote the opinion of one of the earliest pioneers in the Northern Territory. I refer to  Mr. Benjamin  Crosthwaite, who is still alive - he lives at Kew - and who, in 1875, took up Rocklands Station, on the border of Queensland and the Northern" Territory, and which also runs into the Barkly Tablelands. In that year,  Mr. Crosthwaite  left what was then a comparatively little place, but which is now regarded as the hub of the universe, and is known also as the city in which the Ford motor works and other prosperous and progressive industries are to be established - I refer, of course, to Geelong. This is what  Mr. Crosthwaite  wrote - 
Early in the year 1875 I  travelled  from Rockhampton, in Queensland, across the Peak Downs, the Barcoo country, and on to the farfamed Bowen Downs. At Mount Cornish I was most hospitably received by the manager. In talking oyer country with him, he asked me why I did not go out to the Barkly Tablelands? Tlie gentleman had had the management of a " boiling-down " establishment at Burketown, at the head of the Gulf of Carpentaria, and during hie residence there there were three sheep stations on these tablelands, about 200 miles from Burketown, where the sheep had done remarkably well, both a.s regards the increase and the clip. Owing to the great degression in pastoral pursuits about 1870, tlie settlement at Burketown had to be abandoned. In consequence of this, the sheep were necessarily withdrawn from the tableland stations, much to the regret of -the owners. Acting on  Mr.  Edkins'  advice, I returned to Mount Cornish, purchased a mob of breeding cattle there, and started for the tablelands with  Mr. N.  Buchanan, a well-known Queensland explorer, in charge. After travelling about 100 miles west we formed a camp for the cattle on the Western River, which at that time was almost unoccupied, and  Mr. Buchanan  and I crossed over .the low range at the head of the Diamentina on to the Gulf country. We followed $he lower country round; till !we struck the. road from Burketown -to the abandoned tablelands. This road we had considerable difficulty in following, as the rapid growth in that part of the world had almost obliterated the tracks. Eventually, however, we followed a rocky hollow leading up out of the comparatively barren country bordering the O'Shannessy  River, and' I shall never forget the sensation I experienced when we found ourselves on the noble stretch of richly-grassed undulating downs, " the Barkly .Tablelands." From that to Lake Mary was about 40 miles. The growth was so luxuriant that we had the greatest difficulty in following the old track - indeed, wo had actually lost it when  Ave  caught sight of the lake, where I understand is now the township of Camooweal. From this point  Mr. Buchanan  and I went over a considerable part of the' tablelands, travelling about 150 miles west into the Northern Territory, and passing through a considerable part of the present Avon Downs property, which was then unoccupied. Everywhere we found the same beautiful undulating downs, thickly covered with- the best Queensland grasses. On my present and previous journey I had been through some of the best pastoral districts in Queensland, but 1 had seen nothing that 1 liked so well as these limestone downs of apparently unlimited extent. The climate on the tablelands for six months in the year is as fine as any in Australia. 
I would draw particular attention to the last sentence, because I wish to disprove the erroneous impressions formed by so many people concerning the climatic conditions in the Northern Territory. The letter goes on - 
The increase in both cattle and horses was most satisfactory; indeed, my actual muster when I gave delivery on the sale of the station was considerably higher than the number shown on the station books. 
That has been the experience during the last 40 years on every station concerning which 1 know anything. When properties have been sold on a walk-in walkout basis, it has usually been found that the number of cattle and horses has always been considerably in excess of that shown in the books. In consequence of the satisfactory nature of the country, and the good health of the horses and cattle, there has seldom been the number of natural losses for which allowance has been made. Unfortunately, the experience in regard to sheep has been the reverse. The letter proceeds - 
I sold this property in 1882, and on my return to Geelong (where I then resided) I had several conversations with  Mr. Guthrie  about the Barkly Tablelands, and I believe that he was a good deal influenced by my reports in his decision to form a sheep station at Avon Downs - which . is in the Northern Territory. That was the first attempt made to establish a sheep station in that Territory 
In conclusion, I should like to point out that the only drawback to this magnificent country is the difficulty of communication, 
The difficulty of transport and communication still. exists to a marked degree, and little progress in this connexion has been made during the past fifty years, and that if it was decided to continue either of the Queensland western lines across the Thompson, and so on through the tablelands to Port Darwin, the whole of the Queensland portion of the line would pass through valuable pastoral country showing no serious engineering difficuties, and that it would tap on the Barkly Downs a huge area of the finest sheep country in Australia. 
That was the experience of a practical man in 1875, and I think the conditions are the same to-day. 
It has been verified by nearly every one since then that the great need of that area is a railway connecting it with' the great western railway system of Queensland. 
-They are terrific. After establishing a sheep station, at huge cost, the pioneer of sheep in that country was eventually forced to give it up, largely on account of the cost of transport. That trouble has been in existence for the last 40 years.  Mr. David  Lindsay, the noted explorer and a fellow of the Royal Geographical Society, gave his opinion of the Barkly Tablelands, as follows. - 
The whole of the vast tract of country known as the Barkly Tablelands may be described as a luxuriantly grassed country. Much of it, especially the country on the Herbert, James, Lorne, Rankine, Brunette, Cresswell, Playford, Buchanan, and other creeks, can scarcely be surpassed, so far as my experience goes, in Australia. 
It is not waterless country. 
Some of them at certain seasons of the year are, but there are some very big permanent waterholes, although they are not sufficient for closer settlement purposes or for sheep. Later on I shall explain the great cost of developing that country for sheep, but I hope that, eventually, the Barkly Tablelands will carry 10,000,000 sheep. The country is suitable for raising sheep if worked the right way.  Mr. David  Lindsay says - 
It is equal to some of the finest country on the Cooper in Queensland. I have no hesitation in expressing my opinion that this country is eminently adapted to wool-growing, and sheep will do well, there being sufficient shady trees scattered about the country. The grasses are not too long, and are free from injurious seeds. 
I quite agree with him. Its freedom from injurious seeds gives that part of Australia a tremendous advantage for woolgrowing purposes, because in some of the coastal districts, just as in Rhodesia and many parts of Africa, it is impossible to keep sheep on account of the injurious seeds in the grasses.  Mr. Ernest  Favenc, another explorer, says - 
The Barkly Tablelands, which lie between parallels 17 and 21, is of the' same nature as Landsdowne, Terrick Terrick, Portland, and Northampton Downs, which are recognized as the cream of the Barcoo country. 
I know of the stations he has mentioned. They are some of the most famous in 'the world, and the wool produced there commands high prices, yet, in his opinion, the 
Barkly Tablelands country is equally good. He says - 
It is ideal wool-growing country, and I should say would carry between 15,000,000 and 20,000,000 sheep. 
I do not altogether agree with him there. I think that he might be too optimistic, or that he saw the country in a good season and did not realize the enormous expense entailed in developing a sheep station.  Mr. Lewis,  a well-known pastoralist, of the firm of Lewis and Bagot, Adelaide, addressing the South Australian Parliament in 1901 upon the Northern Territory, said - 
One district alone (the Barkly Tablelands) was capable of keeping 10,000,000 sheep. 
Honorable senators will see that all these men are backing up one another in the statement that the Barkly Tablelands country is cap'able of carrying sheep. I think it may eventually carry 10,000,000, and, if so, it will be of enormous advantage to Australia.  Mr. Lewis  went on to say - 
The Barkly Tablelands, of which very little was known, was a tract of very . good country between latitudes 17 and 21, and adjoining the Queensland border. Some of the cattle on that country, after travelling 1,150 miles, sold in the Adelaide market, averaged £12 10s. per head, and some sheep which were recently travelled down brought 16s. It had a very good rainfall, and did not suffer from droughts. 
That gives another picture of the Barkly Tablelands. As honorable senators are aware, a vast portion of Australia has very rich soil. It is rich in lime and phosphates, and everything that tends to produce- various crops. The natural herbage of Australia is the best in the world. It is the most fattening. There are very few other countries where the native grasses are so fattening and where stock can be turned out all the year round, and be brought in prime fat, as they are in Australia. But we have also a vast area which has a very low rainfall, and which is subject to periodical droughts that serve to make the lot of the outback settler, whether he be a pastoralist or a grain-grower, very hard indeed. However, on the Barkly Tablelands droughts are practically unknown. I have been associated with that country for 43 years, and I do not think that at any time during that period there have been material stock losses from droughts. The average rainfall over the whole of the area is 17 inches, and the rain comes relatively regularly. 
Yes. And it would also be necessary to spend vast sums of money on fencing. It is not an easy task. That is why I wish to convince honorable senators that the Northern Territory is a pastoral proposition, and that they must not run away with the idea that we should be hard on leaseholders, or refuse to give any one a freehold, or that we should cut up the area into small holdings. It is a place where  a man must, have a large holding, a lion heart, and a long purse, if he wishes to develop it. 
Small, in comparison with the present unwieldy holdings. 
Yes, something like that. I quite agree with honorable senators who object to vast areas being held by any one man or set of men. There is not the slightest doubt that some of the holdings in the Territory are too big, but it would be worse to have too small holdings. The station with which I was associated covered 2,100 square miles, and was considered one of the smallest up there, but I admit quite frankly that it was too big for us. It would have taken £500,000 and an army of men to develop it to its full capacity. It has not yet been developed to that extent, butin the 30 odd years for which we have held it we have managed to develop and fence about half of it. 
Certainly, but the honorable senator will agree with me that it is not good for the Territory itself or for Australia for any one up there to hold 14,000 square miles of country. 
-About 100 to 200 square miles. I think that is about the lowest we can get down to with practical results during our lifetime. 
It would be in many parts of the Territory, but, like the rest of Australia, the land will all have to' be classified. I understand that a land board has been appointed to classify it, but I am afraid the board has not been very active. I do not know what it has done. 
I have been informed that it has not yet got out of Darwin. If that is true it is something of a scandal. 
I am pleased I have drawn that reply from the Minister, and to learn that the board is not neglecting its duties. I have received a letter from  Mr. Stewart  Field, one of the most extraordinary men I have met in Australia, and probably the most successful drover in the world. He has crossed Australia from north to south on foot about . 20 times, driving sometimes cattle, sometimes horses, and sometimes sheep. Therefore, his evidence as to the route the North-South railway should take is of value. He has made some marvellous trips, and has had some stirring experiences in crossing uncharted rivers with the stock in his charge. He hasseen  most parts of Australia in most seasons. In fact, he has walked over most parts of Australia in most seasons. He is an observant man. He is a practical and highly educated man. He has not gone over the country in a motor car travelling at 60 or 70 miles an hour, but has walked over it. In his letter to me, he says - 
The northern portion of the tablelands is wonderful grazing country, with 17 to 19 inches of rainfall, and what strikes one is the limited area of waste land as compared with Queensland and other parts of Australia. 
No, he is telling  me  what a little extent there is of land of poor quality or land which is not well grassed. 
That is so. The uniformity of the grass-carrying capacity of the Barkly Tablelands is extraordinary.  Mr. Field  says - 
At Avon Downs Station I saw no waste land at all. Avon Downs, so far, is the only station in the Territory carrying sheep, doubtless due to want of better railway facilities. Avon Downs also carries a large herd of well-bred cattle. I think this run the pick of any I have seen in these regions, and it certainly stands well ahead of the Richmond and Clon- curry country of Queensland, and it takes much less rain to constitute a good season than the latter. Some years ago 1 saw two mobs (1,000 in each) of fat cattle from Avon Downs, the finest mobs for the numbers I over saw, which averaged in the Adelaide markets£ 13 and£11 respectively. Three lots of wethers (22,000 in all) averaged  15s. 6d., 15s. 10d., and 18s.9d. respectively in the same market, the latter mob being the highest price ever reached . for a* similar number in those markets.Rocklands Station, adjoining Avon, and with country also on the Queensland side, carries an immense herd of cattle, as does Alexandra, to the west of Avon, and Brunette, still further out. All these runs are gradually aidingtheir carrying capabilities by artesian bores. In time to come, all this magnificent grazing country will be under sheep. Queensland people intend shortly carrying the Cloncurry line to Mount Oxide copper mine, and thence to Burketown, theport, and to connect with Camooweal from Mount Oxide, and so tap the trade, and we will before long see this region, with Burketown as a port, carrying several millions of sheep. 
He made a mistake in referring to artesian water. There is no artesian water in the Barkly Tablelands, or, so far as I am aware, in the Northern Territory. At huge expense bores were sunk to a depth of 2,000 feet and did not strike a flow. However, the saving feature of the Territory and of a great portion of Australia is the fact that there is an unlimited supply of sub-artesian water at a depth of from 150 feet to 300 feet. In all the bores we put down we never failed to strike sub- artesian water. Sometimes it rises to within 100 feet of the surface, but, generally speaking, it has to be pumped from a depth of about 200 feet. All these experienced men made the same prophecy in regard to the sheep-carrying capacity of this part of the Territory. I would not quote them if they were not experienced and observant. Captain W. R. (now Admiral) Creswell was one of the earliest explorers. I understand he and his people had been connected with the pastoral industry before he joined the Navy. He passed through the Barkly Tablelands in 1885, and he wrote in equally glowing terms of the climate. Although the weather is very hot in summer, the atmosphere is not humid; and in winter I have known of a billy of water to freeze. The climate, therefore, is remarkably healthy. The people of Australia and other countries should know these facts, and not be left under the false impression that the Territory is a great wilderness, and that the money to be spent there by the Government upon railways, roads, water supply, telegraph and telephone lines, and civil aviation will be wasted. It is necessary to deal with this problem earnestly and in a big way. It will be necessary to spend large sums of money there. 
It will be useless to fiddle with it. The work  must  be done by men with big ideas. If honorable senators opposite are invited to agree to the expenditure of large sums of money in developing northern Australia, I urge them not to belittle their own land by saying that the country is not worth it. Let me assure them that it is a very valuable part of Australia, and a very dangerous part, too, if it is left in its present untenanted condition. At the present time we have no means of developing or defending it, and I regard this bill as the first great step in the right direction, for it aims at doing something on practical lines. 
 I have told honorable senators the truth, as' outlined by explorers, pioneers, drovers, and other practical men, and, of course, it sounds too alluring. Looking at that side of the picture alone, honorable senators opposite may say, "What a good wicket these leaseholders are on! What a shame that they should hold large areas thus temporarily locked up! Why do we not go out there and make a fortune?" I wish to tell them the actual experiences of those who attempted to pioneer the sheep industry and to lay the foundations for the flocks of from 10,000,000 to 20,600,000 sheep, which all the authorities I have quoted said should, and I hope some day will, be there. I suppose that honorable senators realize that it is a comparatively easy and inexpensive job to establish a cattle station as compared with developing a property to carry sheep. I hope that my honorable friends opposite will bear this, fact in mind, since some of their supporters frequently decry the pastoralists and the wool industry, and talk about " bursting up mere sheep walks." They do not realize that the great wool industry is the most valuable, and affords more employment than any other in Australia. These " mere sheep walks," rather than being a detriment to the country, are the backbone of it. The squatter realizes, of course, that where land is suitable for closer settlement, and can be put to greater use thereby, it must be devoted to that purpose-, and that the pastoralists must go into the outback country such as western Queensland, the Barkly Tablelands, and the eastern portion of Western Australia, where I am told that good sheep country has lately been discovered and settled. 
I shall deal with them, but I want honorable senators opposite to realize that it takes a long purse and a great heart for a man to go into those parts of Australia and develop the country. The men who took up that class of land and made it fit to raise sheep are the greatest benefactors Australia has ever had. 
They have been of very great assistance, but the value of wheat will, never approach the value of the wool  produced  in Australia. In other parts of the world good wheat can be grown, and with an average yield greater than that obtained in Australia, but not so in regard to wool. Providence has given us a vast, rich continent that produces the best sheep and the best wool in the world. That is no idle boast. Our wool has handling and spinning qualities peculiarly its own, and no country will ever produce wool of the same intrinsic value. 
I do, because I believe that it will produce 1,000,000 bales of merino wool before long. But South African wool will never be as soft and good  as that grown  in certain parts of Australia. I have made a life-long study of this subject, and for the benefit of honorable senators opposite who are according me a most attentive hearing-  
-As a matter of fact, more sheep to the square mile are carried in South Africa than in Australia. South Africa has 28,500,000 woolbearing sheep, and we should not belittle the opposition Australia will have from that quarter. When I first entered the wool trade, South Africa produced 200,000 bales of comparative rubbish. The wool was short, ill-bred stuff of low value. 
Yes ; either through our liberality or stupidity. Today South Africa is producing close upon 600,000 bales of merino wool. 
From a woolgrowers' point of view they are equal to our own. -  [Extension of time granted.] 
One hesitates to speak of one's own family, but I think that I am justified in paying some tribute to my father, who invested in the Barkly Tablelands in 1882 and pioneered from the south. He established the Avon Downs station, which he stocked with sheep, cattle, and horses. That belt of the Northern Territory was then considered by the South Australian Government to be so good that it was not thrown open for leasehold under ordinary conditions, but in 1882 the right to lease the land was sold at public auction.  For the right to lease the Herbert River auction blocks as they were called - each covered an area of 300 square miles - people paid as much as £500. But the South Australian Government was very wise, and I exhort the Federal Government to follow its example. It wanted to encourage people such as my father and others to settle in that country, and spend money on developing and stocking it. Certainly large areas were allotted, and these are as essential to the proper development of the country now as they were then. Long leases were granted. 
Forty-two years' security of tenure. There was no power of resumption, and a pepper-corn rental averaging1s. 9d. a square mile was charged. The total rental my father paid for 2,100 square miles was £255 a year. If such alluring terms had not been offered nobody would have gone there, for the risk was terrible. I was very young at the time, but I remember the first mob of 14,000 merino sheep driven northward from the north-west of "Victoria in an attempt to reach the Barkly Tablelands. Droving was the only way to get them there. As a matter of fact, only 4,000 of them reached their destination. . That alone shows the enormous risk that' men were obliged to take in their efforts to develop this outback country. Instead of subjecting them to criticism and abuse, we ought to applaud them' for what they have done. Many years afterwards the Barkly Tablelands property to which I have referred was sold to a company, and I was elected  chairman  of directors. One of the company's first acts was to take steps to increase our flock of breeding ewes. We bought 5,000 merino ewes in Western Queensland, engaged drovers, through a firm in Brisbane which I believe knew its business, and instructed them . to take these ewes to the station. We paid 16s. or 17s. a head for those sheep,' and the whole flock was lost in a single day. An extraordinary heat wave occurred while the sheep were travelling oyer a long, dry. tract of country to Boulia, where there was a good waterhole. On the particular day that they were lost the thermometer registered 123 deg. in the shade. The sheep were struggling along when they smelt the water. They immediately started to run, but, instead of reaching the Boulia waterhole, they ran into a dry billabong some distance from Boulia. They were so mad with the heat and thirst that they simply rushed on top of each other until all were smothered. Not a single animal was saved. Boulia waterhole was only about 3 miles distant. Possibly the drover in charge showed bad judgment. He should have driven the sheep by night and camped by day. ' However, that is another illustration of the practical "difficulty and enormous expense which has to be faced whenever an- attempt is made to establish a sheep station in. the Northern Territory or in any other outback country. 
When my father first went into the Barkly Tablelands country the nearest railway station was 500 miles away ; there was one mail every six weeks;, there wasno telephone or telegraph station available, and the nearest doctor was hundreds' of miles away at Cloncurry. One policeman had charge of the whole of the Northern Territory at that time, and I could tell a good story of how he arrested a notorious horse-duffer at the Rankin River police station. When he got hisman he tied him to a horse and took him to Port Darwin, about 500 miles distant, for trial. The man was found guilty and sentenced to a few mouths' imprisonment. Just about the time the policeman returned to his station the horse-thief was out of jail and back at his old game: and, I believe,. is still at it. We are told sometimes that such tremendous prices are obtained for wool that the pioneers arewell rewarded for all the difficultiesthey face and the expense they incur. I have account sales which show the prices received for wool for the last 30 years. For the fine quality merino wool grown on my father's station in the early days - wool similar to that which I saw in Africa recently, of short staple, fine diameter of fibre, and free from seeds like the burrs which areto be found in so much of the wool in the south - only5d. or 6d. a lb. was received. The first lot of fat bullocks sent to the Adelaide market were sold for 20s. and 30s. a head. Frequently the accounts he received from the Adelaide agents forhis fat bullocks showed a debit instead of a  credit. On many occasions he did not get a single penny for bullocks which had taken five or six years, to raise.His horses, were sold for £2 or £3 a head. I have an account here of a sale in 1903-4 of 4,950 fat wethers from that station. They brought £4,150, but the expenses, including droving commission, amounted to £3,830, so that the cheque received - and, mind you, it was- not a profit by any means - was for only £320. 
I have heard it said during this, debate that nothing has. been done to develop and prove the Northern Territory. I deny that. There have been some splendid pioneers in" the Northern Territory, as in other parts of Australia. I wish we had more men of the- same calibre in these days. If young fellows- in the southern states  would  strike out for themselves and do some pioneering work in our out-back areas they would realize that all the romanco and profit has not gone from out-back life. If I were a young man I should delight to take up some of the vast unsettled areas in Western Australia, Queensland, or the Northern Territory. But what encouragement do pioneers get afterall? I know of one gentleman who spent30 years  in  a tremendouslyuphill fight in the Northern Territory. He invested  over  £100,000- there in fencing- for fences- are necessary in dealing with sheep - in putting down bores, in conserving water, and in stocking with: high-class sheep-, cattle, and horses. He increasedhis stock until he had 60,000 merinoes, 9,000' shorthorn cattle, and 400 horses. In  the  end, after all his toil and. anxiety, he sold the whole property, including stock, plant, and stores, for £80,000, and on terms. In other words, he received £30,000 less than he spent. Though he personally did not make money, he laid the foundation of the industry in the Northern Territory. He is alive and well' in Melbourne to-day,and is satisfied because he has done something for Australia. Others will' reap the reward of his: pioneering labours. He proved' that the Barkly Tablelands are wonderfully healthy for white men. Others said' so, but he proved,  it.  He employed.,, on the average,, 40 men. per annum, and had' practically no black, boys on the property. He paidhis employees,, on the average, £4 per week,, and "kept" them, and every man who worked on the property expressed his- appreciation, of the climate. He proved also that sheep can be handled profitably there,, for although he only received 4d. and5d., a pound from his earlier clips of wool, he ultimately topped the London market tor scoured wool. He grew the wool on the tablelands,. had it scoured there, sent it to London,, and obtained top price for it. That surely is a great achievement. During his development of Avon. Downs Station, he also secured top price for fat sheep in the Adelaide market. He frequently topped the Adelaide market for fat bullocks, I have seen his BOO brand cattle sold in the Melbourne market for £20 apiece. He has done something tangible for Australia. 
I have not the definite figures at hand, but all the accounts are available. I know that when the country was first occupied, and for many years aftewards, flour cost £100 a ton. 
I cannot say without reference to the invoices. The flour had to be sent to Burketown by steamer. As honorable senators know, Burketown is a very poor port. Steamers have to lie out in the open roadstead, miles from the wharf, and stores haveto be lightered from the steamer to the shore. That had to be done with this flour. It then had to be carted across rugged mountains to the station. It cost £100 a ton by the time it got there. 
My object in stating these facts is to inform honorable senators and the public of what the pioneers in the Northern Territory, and in other parts of Australia, have had to suffer. The gentleman to whom I have just referred is well satisfied with his achievements. He had hundreds of miles of fencing constructed on his property, and he put down something like 20 bores. It is to be regretted that these pioneer pastoralists are subjected to so much abuse. This man, for instance, was attacked by scurrilous articles in the Sydney  Worker.  It was said that he was a beef baron ; and that he locked up land. The  Worker  published photographs of the quarters that were provided on the station for the men. I admit that they were poor quarters, but so were those occupied by the pioneer squatters themselves. I was in the plains of the Western District not long ago, on one of the most famous stations in Australia. Some of the highestpriced wool in the world is grown there. The gentleman who was showing me round the property pointed to an old building, and said, " That was the original homestead." I said. " What, that old dog kennel? Did  Mr. So-and-so  live there?" He replied, "Yes, and he reared a large family there." There are old huts on many of these Western District stations which we "think are hardly fit for dog kennels nowadays, but which were the homesteads of the pioneers. On the Northern Territory property to which I referred, and of which I was afterwards managing director, we did not build quarters for the men, for the reason that they preferred to live in tents. They said that it was healthier, and so it was. On one occasion when shearing time came, a photograph was published in the Sydney  Worker  of an old bough shed on the station, and it was stated that that was the kind of accommodation provided by the wealthy squatters for the shearers. As a matter of fact it was nothing of the kind. The men asked for tents, and they were given the very best of tents, and an abundance of the very best of food; in fact, as regards fare, they lived extravagantly. They realized that tent life was the most.healthy for them. The other day I was surprised to see in the Melbourne  Labour Gall  an attack upon myself. It said that I spoke with two voices. I came back from South Africa more firmly convinced than ever of the advisability of adhering to the White Australia policy. This paper declared that, by employing Australian aborigines, to whom I paid no wages at all, I had made a profit of £250,000 on a station in Queensland. I would not like to make that amount of money in such a way as that, but I do wish there was some truth in the statement about the £250,000. As a matter of fact, I was never interested in an acre of land in Queensland in my life, and I did not make any money on leaseholds at all in that state. The facts are, that I was managing director and the paid servant of a company holding a leasehold in the Barkly Tablelands, and my salary was £250 a year. The  Labour Call  merely made a mistake in adding three noughts to the amount of my salary, which I fully admit was not enough by a. long way. My co-directors agreed that I was very much underpaid. I have no doubt they were right. 
The habit to strike is not in my make-up. Instead of employing aborigines, the company employed 40 white men, and ' paid them on the average the very high wage of £4 a week and found. 
Yes; and high wages to-day, because the men were found as well. 
Does the honorable senator- ever sit down, with pencil and paper, to find out what it costs to keep a. man ? 
I am not concerned with what other people were paying. That is the wage we paid to our men. 
  With regard to the water difficulty mentioned by some honorable senators, I may say that we put down sub-artesian bores on the Barkly Tablelands, and at first had to incur the expense of petrol to keep the engine pumps going ; but finally, on account of the cost, we equipped all our bores with a 22-ft. comet windmill, made by Stuart Williamson and Company, of Rockhampton. and constructed huge overhead earthen tanks, which held the water like a bottle. What encouragement did the pioneers in the Northern Territory get ? It is true that the South Australian Government treated them very well. It gave them long leases, and security of tenure, at a peppercorn rental. In this way, it encouraged men to occupy and develop out-back country. Contrast that treatment with that meted out to the pioneers by the Federal Government, who introduced and enforced taxation of leaseholds. The valuations and assessments were farcical and cruel. 
The company for which I was managing director bought for £80,000 the Avon Downs Station, upon which over £100,000 had been spent upon improvements and stock - there were 50,000 sheep, 9,000 cattle, 400 horses. The value of the leasehold improved was estimated to be £17,500, yet some inexperienced or prejudiced individual, probably living in Melbourne,  actually assessed this particular leaseholdfor taxation at an unimproved value of £88,600 ! This was not only stupid, but cruelly unjust, and actions1 of that kind will prevent others from investing in and developing out-back country. As a fact, the unimproved value of that property was not worth 6d. The capital expended in sinking bores and erecting hundreds of miles of fenc ing, and stocking it, gave to it its value. Instead of encouraging us to produce wool in the Barkly Tablelands, the Federal Government strangled us by the introduction of the principle of- taxation of leaseholds. There never was such a ridiculous tax in the financial history of the Commonwealth. On behalf of the Avon Downs Company, I have had to pay £5,07911s. 2d., representing taxation on the unimproved value of leaseholds from 1914-15 to 1920-21. I did so under protest, but I am afraid we have very little chance of getting a refund. 
How can a  pastoralist in the Northern Territory or a primary producer anywhere in Australia pass on taxation? I have never heard a more asinine remark in this chamber. 
A storekeeper who buys a commodity for £1 may pass on his taxation by charging £2 for the same article, but the primary producer must export his surplus produce, and meet competition in the open markets of the world, 12,000 or 13,000 miles away. What I have said may be regarded as an argument for the freehold principle, but I would not part with too much of the freehold in the Northern Territory. I am rather in favour of the leasehold principle. I believe that if people are to be encouraged to take up that class of country they should have long leases and security of tenure at a low rental. As regards the disabilities of leaseholds, I stated in my evidence before the royal commission - 
It must he borne in mind that a leasehold is not on the same footing as a freehold, as the burden of federal land tax may be escapedby subdivision - not so with a leasehold. 
Itmust be remembered that the unimproved value of a leasehold is also further reduced by the fact that a leasehold does, not afford anything like the same facilities for financing. It is possible to borrow money on any freehold. If a property is worth £10 an acre a man might reasonably hope to borrow to the extent of £5 or £6 an acre, and in like ratio whatever the valuation might be, but it is very difficult to borrow any money on leasehold properties out-back. Instead of being given a bonus for growing wool on the Barkly Tablelands - I would advocate paying a bonus to people who take up and develop out-back country., because under the best of conditions it. is an uphill task, and takes a lot of money - the pioneers 'are discouraged in every possible way. We . should do all we possibly can to ensure the effective occupation of our empty places. On the question of equalization of profits, in my evidence before the commission, I stated - 
Whilst the profits disclosed . by the profit and loss account during a goodseason may be satisfactory, still, in the case of a leasehold, pr o vision has to be made for the possibility of future bad seasons. Unless thisbe reserved, finance against the value of leasehold country during a drought is absolutely impossible. Here, again, a pastoral leasehold during a good year is penalized by - 
War-time Profits Tax (enormous). 
Federal Income Tax. 
Federal Land Tax . (based on an absurd valuation ) . 
Northern Territory Income Tax. 5.Queensland State' Income Tax on . all sales affected when delivery given in Queensland. 
Victorian State IncomeTax on income earned in Victoria. South Australia, Income Tax on allincome earned in  . South Australia. 
These handicaps, combined with adverse legislation, and an ever-increasing cost of' management, due to labour problems,which under the new logare quiteunbearable, make the lot of a leaseholder in the Northern Territory . unenviable, and development of further country extremely unlikely. The numerous taxation departments willingly participate in all profits during a good year,but do not makeallowance for . subsequent losses in . bad seasons. 
Ihopethathonorable senators opposite will urge the Treasurer to disgorge some of the money which the Treasury filched from the pioneers in the Northern Territory. 
-Yes, I have paid under protest every taxation claim in respect of Crown leaseholds. 
.  - I feel at a disadvantage in followingthe honorable senator who has just resumed his seat. I have no harrowing tales to tell of personal misfortune in connexion with the Northern Territory, the government of which is sought to be amended by this bill. I have greater pleasure in discussing this bill, because its purpose is to do something for the development of Australia, whereas many other measures that have come before the Senate in recent years have been designed to restrict development by vexatious restrictions, to which  Senator Guthrie  has alluded so eloquently. It is always a pleasure to listen to the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  when he is dealing with the Northen Territory, because he speaks with enthusiasm born of knowledge and experience. I do not, propose to deal with the early history -of the Northern Territory, because that retrospect is a dismal one. It is a record of failure, due not altogether, I think, to mismanagement, but rather to the defeat of settlement schemes by the forces of nature. Most of us will agree that South Australia, which is sometimes called the " Scotland of Australia," can get more for its 6d. than any other state. 
Perhaps because I felt I was not getting value for my6d. But to resume, after the very pertinent interjection by the Minister, I have always thought that if South. Australia, after spending a great deal of time and money on it could not get a good return from the Northern Territory, it would be a difficult matter for the Commonwealth to do so. It is in the interests of Australia, which as I hope to show later, is the interest of the Empire, that it is necessary for something to be done with what is usually alluded to as our empty north. Therefore, it is as much for imperial as for federal reasons that I am an enthusiastic supporter of the bill. I . shall, however, elaborate . that later.  Senator Guthrie  has informed us that he has a knowledge of the Barkly Tablelands and a portion of Queensland, whilst other honorable senators have given their opinions concerning the Northern Territory. My knowledge of the Northern Territory is confined to the southernportion, and : to a period almost 40 years ago. It is peculiar, but I know thatin the 
Macdonell Ranges, Alice Springs, and down to Hergott Springs, there were in those days more people there than there are to-day, and it certainly was a more prosperous part  of the world ; but it has been set back by various means. Fortunes have been amassed in that portion of -the Commonwealth, but I doubt very much whether they will be made in the future unless .the cost of production, which has been the main factor in destroying .enterprise in that part of the .Commonwealth, is materially reduced. 
In regard to the .other portion of the Commonwealth which may possibly come within the scope of this hill, I may claim to have 'a fairly good working knowledge. ' I know only a little about it - and there are few people who know more than a little - but there is no doubt that if the development of that portion of Western Australia which, is sought to be included in this measure is to take place, an influence greater than that of a .state must undertake the work. I do not see how it is possible, considering all the difficulties to be surmounted and the ingenuity which has to be shown in colonizing and populating a country, for Western Australia to find the money or the influence to adequately develop that portion of its territory which will, if that state assents to the proposition, come within the scope of this measure. That the Commonwealth should do so is, in my opinion, eminently desirable. Honorable senators will see that the portion of Western Australia sought to be included embraces only one settlement of any importance, that of Wyndham, and continues down to Collier Bay. From the state point of view, that part of the country, consisting, as it does, for tlie greater part of rugged mountain ranges with the good flat country far behind them, intersected by rivers and river  basins,  is the only portion which is good, and it is undoubtedly good, but it will hare to be treated on am 'altogether  different  basis from the balance of-  that  large area. One reason why it should be under Commonwealth control is, in my opinion, its intense value from a strategic point of view. In one portion of thai  country  there are, 'within a distance of 100 miles, three harbours equal to any to be found anywhere on the Australian coast. I believe that eminent authority on harbours,  Sir  George Buchanan,  who is visiting Australia, -hat already reported on Napier Broome Bay, and situated within less than l'OO miles - nature has been so prodigal - are Vansittart Bay 'and Admiralty Gulf, either of which is a harbour practically as good as Napier Broome Bay. Certain advocates of the defence of Australia, most of «whom are to be found on the opposite side of the chamber, are possessed of the idea that the best way in which to defend Australia is by what may be termed a " mosquito " "fleet. They advocate the defence of Australia largely by means of submarines and aircraft. I am prepared to admit that that policy is loudly acclaimed by honorable senators opposite, including, of course,  Senator McHugh- 
Then I must congratulate the honorable senator upon the fact, and upon his ready recognition of a defence policy. It did not strike me that way- 
So far as I am concerned, the honorable senator is quite welcome to retain it. As this bill does not deal with defence, I shall not proceed further, on these lines except to say that this may be a very good supplementary item to consider in preparing -a Commonwealth defence policy. As was stated by the admiral in command of the Special Service Squadron which visited Australia last year, "With whatever we start we have to come back to the big ships." It is a necessary process, of evolution. Situated as we are, and expecting, as we must, attacks from the northern  hemisphere  from whichever direction iti that hemisphere they may come, this portion of the country to which I am alluding offers in the defence of Australia a wonderful jumping-off ground. We must establish listening and observation posts in that portion of the Commonwealth nearest to any of our potential enemies, since whether they come front the east or from tine west they must enter at the north. It is _ to  hp,  regretted that we have not listening posts in the Indian Ocean - it may be possible later to acquire them - as at some time we may need them. We require not only listening posts, but also a system of defence which will, at all events, partially satisfy the dictum of those who say that our shores must be defended hundreds of miles from the main land - an opinion in which every one who has studied the question of defence will readily concur. Is it not fit and proper, therefore, that those in control of our defence should also have some authority in this territory? That is one of the reasons which compels me to support the bill, more particularly as I hope that the Western Australian Government, which can do very - little indeed with the proposition as a state concern, will see its way clear to concur with the wishes of the Government in this particular. Indeed, it would be taking from them a responsibility and making a success of a proposition which is at present only, a responsibility. 
As to the settlement of the country in question - and of course no country is of value until it is settled - I was very much struck with the remarks made by the Minister, when introducing another bill, which is so closely interwoven with this measure that their aims and ideas are identical, concerning the proposed form of land tenure and settlement in the Northern Territory and in those portions of Queensland and Western Australia proposed to be included under this measure. In that measure it is provided that in certain cases and under certain guarantees and conditions companies or associations will be able to obtain the freehold of land in areas up to 20,000 acres. In the first place, I consider 20,000 acres somewhat small; but if this country in Western Australia is to be settled it must be developed, along the natural river basins. The area delineated on the map, vhich honorable senators have had an opportunity of studying, shows that on the coast line from Wyndham to Collier Bay - these are the two extreme points of the western, portion to be. included - several rivers make their entrance into the sea. All these river basins have fairly extensive areas of good land, but, strange to say, access from one river basin to another is absolutely impossible owing to the contour of the country. It would, therefore, seem that if this portion is to be settled - personally 
I think it will be, some day, and will support a fairly large population - each of these river basins must be developed by efforts confined to each separate basin, because, as I have said, there is no means of communication between them except by aeroplanes. What an opportunity this affords to the system of land tenure referred toby the Minister  (Senator Pearce).  I hope in time, when the attitude of the states to this proposition has been definitely settled - I trust in the affirmative - that this policy of the Commonwealth Government may be put into operation. So far as the probabilities go, I know that there are men in Australia who would be prepared to undertake the development of this Territory. I have spoken to some of them, and I know that their main objective would not be the making of profits: bur rhat they would simply work to adequately develop  more particularly the northern portion in the interest of the Empire. We should settle there those who are willing, and should encourage those who have indeed formulated schemes, having as their basis the proposition submitted by the Minister. I refer to companies formed for the settlement of migrants in any part of  Australia  offering sufficient inducement. In years to come, and with an accelerated rate of development, I believe that that portion of Australia with which we are now dealing must become a very important part of the Commonwealth. Its potentialities in the matter of pastoral and agricultural pursuits are good. The soil along the river basins, already alluded to, is very fertile, and all that is needed is population. In addition to these resources there is just beyond the south-western boundary, in Western Australia, one of the largest iron deposits in the world - a deposit which, with the exhaustion of those now in use. must come into its own. I allude to the magnificent deposit at  Yampie  South. This, in itself would give such a fillip' to industry in Western Australia that that portion which is sought to be included in the North Australia scheme would also share in the benefits. 
As honorable senators are aware, I have at various times referred to the necessity for stimulating research into our natural resources, which could be extended by taking over an area such as this. With the Northern Territory in the centre, Western Australia on one side, and the Barkly Tablelands on the other, a stimulus should be given to the Federal Government 'to expend more, and yet more, money upon ascertaining the various industries suited to this country, and the best way in which to encourage them. 
I now come to a very vital part of the bill, and that is the part providing for the appointment of a commission. Various opinions have been expressed concerning the placing, as rulers of the proposed Territory, of what is known as a provisional government. The words " provisional government " have, to me, a very nasty twang. If I remember aright, in the first -stages of Soviet Russia, provisional governments were established after all the former governments had been killed or banished. It is quite possible, and, indeed, probable, judging from the source whence it came, that the provisional government phrase still clings in their memory. It seems, no doubt, to honorable senators opposite, to be a fit and proper term to apply to any persons who are to commence to administer on a new scale. I hope, however, that this provisional government will not be appointed. The only way I think in which to solve this question is by the appointment of a commission - so long as the right men are selected. Therein lies the crux of the whole question. ' Although little mistakes have been made in appointing some commissions lately - I do not wish to allude to any particular commission - I believe that even from some commissions that have been appointed lately a good deal better effect would have been obtained if greater consideration had been given to their personnel. But judging by that and by the importance this question must assume, I feel sure that the Commonwealth Government will do its very best to select for these positions the best men available.  To take an intelligent interest derived from personal experience in the whole of this vast Territory, to decide what is best to be done for the provision of means for its development, and to give consideration to schemes which may aid in its development, is not a light task for any man, and will demand experience of similar classes of country, an experience which is possessed  by few. However, the Government, being so much in earnest in this matter will, I feel sure, endeavour to secure and, indeed will secure, the best men available in Australia. In my opinion, it is more likely to find in the ranks of Australians who know the country and the circumstances, and whose psychology is Australian, more suitable men for the task -than it is likely to get outside Australia. Two of the most vital problems which we have to-day are the peopling of the country in the north and the provision of transport facilities throughout Australia, whether it be by road or any other method. With both these problems the commission will have to deal. With the Government of today, if this bill is passed, will lie the solution of a puzzle which has taxed the brains of statesmen, both federal and state, for many years. The solution must be extant, and I hope it will be found. I can assure  Senator Pearce  that he has my very best wishes for a successful solution of the puzzle, and that the commissioners, when they are appointed, will have my most intense sympathy, because I am aware of the difficulties of the task that will confront them. I have very much pleasure in supporting the second reading of the bill. 
The people of South Australia are much concerned in the passage of this bill which is designed to make further provision for the development and government of the Northern Territory. I have listened with considerable attention to honorable senators on both sides of the chamber who have taken part in this debate, and more particularly to  Senator Lynch,  who spoke, as he usually does, about every other part of the world save the Commonwealth itself. Evidently the honorable senator is not much concerned about his own country. It is becoming quite common for some honorable senators supporting the Government to talk about everything' but Australia. Last night we had a dissertation from  Senator Lynch  on almost everything under the sun. What struck me most was that the  President  did not call him to order, but allowed him to talk at random. I should like to know why the bill has been introduced before the consent of the Western Australian and the Queensland Governments has been obtained to the transfer of a portion of their territory to the control of the proposed commission. The bill proposes to take some very rich land from Queensland, but will the state government hand it over? "We have a Minister who represents- Queensland. Can he. answer that question?; 
Of course, the Minister cannot answer for others who exercise the. power in regard to this territory. 
The control of the territory in question is dealt with in the bill. We are asked to legislate for an area over which we have no control. I am sorry  Senator Kingsmill  has left the chamber. If he were here he could tell us what the Western Australian Government intends to do in the matter. My idea is that the Government is merely following up its action of last year, when it had legislation passed enabling the big lessees, in the Northern Territory to hold their leases until 1965. Evidently these big lessees are not satisfied with the Northern Territory as it now is, and they want  some richer country. We talk about bringing immigrants to the Territory and patting them on the land there, yet we will not be in. a position to do so until after 1965, when the leases will fall in. The other day I heard  Senator Guthrie  say that only 10 per' cent, of the land in Australia had been alienated. In my opinion, a lease- is an alienation. When land is leased it is alienated for a period. It is not actually banded over in fee simple,, but. a lease cannot be broken without repudiation. The Commonwealth Government has taken from the people of Australia their birth-right in the Northern Territory and will withhold it from them, until 1965. This Parliament is evidently developing some of those wild ideas which  Senator Lynch  propounded last night when he tried to instil in the minds of the people, through  Hansard,  certain principles for which he would not stand in those days when, as he told us, he was walking through the Northern Territory. He does not mind now if some one works 60' hours a week so long as it benefits him. He frequently speaks- of the Labour catechism, but, having departed from the straight road of Labour, he cannot understand our doctrine of " a fair thing for everybody." Labour will see - eventually, of course' - that justice prevails in Australia. 
One can understand  Senator Lynchwanting  to- cutoff the head of any man who differs from him. He came here from a country for which I have a great regard. He left that country because, economically, his head might have been chopped off, but having become wealthy, and having been given in this great Commonwealth of Australia something which ha could not get in his own land, he now puts up a fight to prevent other people who come from the same land from getting some of the territory covered by this bill. I am sure that if the people in the land from which he came could only read his speech they would say, " This is not theLynch that left us." Some men improve when they reach the countryof their adoption, and some improve when their party attains political power. Some that, are slaves to-day would be tyrants to-morrow. An old saying runs, " Put a beggar on horseback and he rides to Hades." There are men in this country who haw fought for principles, but are not on horseback. They retain something that is greater than wealth or authority - the respect of the people. It isunfortunate for a. number of men, who have been placed on horseback by Labour, and who have been untrue to- Labour, that they cannot now ask for a Labour vote. They, certainly will never receive an intelligent Labour vote. Under the bill it is proposed, ap- parently, to cut the Northern Territory in halves, the northern portion to be controlled by a commission, and' the central portion by the Government. The Minister  (Senator Pearce),  however, submitted no good arguments to support this proposal. So many commissions have been appointed in Australia that, before long:, the 'whole country will be governed by them. The Federal Capital Territory is now- being managed by a commission, and it is proposed to appoint another to controlmillions of acres in North Australia. Some day, perhaps, a commission will govern Victoria. The southern portion of the. Northern Territory,, let me remind honorable senators, is now under the control of the Government of South Australia.. But it is all part of Australia. 
Yes, but variety of government is not desirable. What we want is a government for Australia, and it is a pity that some individuals cannot see this, country through Australian eyes. The Honorary Minister  (Senator Crawford),  for instance, cannot see an inch beyond Queensland. I know that Queensland is a wel-governed state, and I hope that the authorities there will carefully scan the provisions of this bill, for, if Queensland had a- goveraanent that neglected the interests of the people, some of the richest land there would pass out of its control. 
About three months ago I visited portion of the Northern Territory. Despite what is said by the "cattle kings '" andotherpeople who stand behind the Government. I saw at -Ryan's Well., some80 miles north of Alice Springs, sheep as good as any to be found in other parts of Australia. I have no hesitation in saying that^. where cattlemen are in occupation of country suitable for sheep-raising, it would . pay to push the cattlemen off or induce them ro replace cattle with sheep.  Senator Sir Thomas  Glasgow, I have no doubt, will support the view that it is better to raise sheep than cattle. 
Of course. 
Undoubtedly. I shall come to that aspect later.I. was informed that the great obstacle to sheepraising in theneighbourhood ofRyan's Well was the cost of fencing. It was necessary to keep down the dogs, and, if the country were cut up and the occupants of the land were ali forced to fence their holdings, sheep-raising would present no difficulties, but it was no use trying to run sheep there when people who had cattle stations on adjoining country did not fence their land. 
Let me remind the honorable senator that sheep-raising is carried on successfully at Coondambo station, near Kingoonya, on the EastWest line. The land is of a similar character, and carries about 45,000 sheep, although it was stated a few years ago that sheepcould not be raised in that country. That station is ran by  Mr. Peck,  a man who knows his business. Notwithstanding the adverse opinion of experts, it carries 45,000 sheep to-day, and 40,000 were shorn, there last year. 'It is just an ordinary salt and blue-bush run, with some Mitchell grass on it, and is very similar to large areas in the Northern Territory. Although it con-, tains 700 square miles, it is being developed. Water has been found on it where experts said there was no water. What has been done there can be done elsewhere in similar country. It is our duty to do our utmost to develop Australia, and honorable senators on this side of the chamber are not regarding this bill in a party spirit. We do . not doubt that the Government and its supporters honestly desire to develop the country. When the party with which I was travelling was coming down from Alice Springs two drovers were overtaken who were bringing 300 head of cattle to market. I cannot . give the names of both men, but one was named Dixon. They told us that they had just passed a place called Deep Well, where there was an abundance of stock water, but that a. man named Johannsen, who controlled the well, forbade them to water their stock. They were justifiably angry, for the refusal meant that their cattle had to go without water for five or six days, and would, of course, rapidly depreciate in value. 
We were simply told that Johannsen would not permit them to do so. 
They did not. The water was available, but although the cattle were very thirsty, they were not given a drink. 
The drovers told us that Johannsen had refused to give them permission to use the well. 
That is something for the Government to discover. We asked the drovers for the reason, and they replied, "He would not allow us to use the well." Drovers are not lawyers, and do not carry all the Northern Territory ordinances in their pockets. I venture to say that if the Leader of the Senate were a cattle-drover he would not be so well acquainted with the Northern Territory  ordinances, that he would be able to argue the point as to whether a man in charge of a well was justified in refusing cattledrovers permission to water their cattle at it. 
I do not know. 
We were travelling at the time, and the drovers had passed the well when we met them. If I had been remaining in the locality I should certainly have seen that the stock were watered. I would have taken steps to ascertain why Johannsen refused permission to use the well. 
It is utterly wrong that drovers should, in these circumstances, be prevented from watering their stock. 
I did, just as I would have sympathized with the honorable senator if he had been, suffering from thirst and had been prevented from obtaining water when it was available. I trust that the Minister will make inquiries into this ' case. These stock had to walk over  300  miles to market. It was in the best interests of all concerned that they should reach their destination in the best possible condition, and that was not possible when they were obliged to do without water for five or six days. 
Although the Government proposes to appoint a commission to control the Northern Territory, we have no idea who are likely to be appointed. It is possible that the wrong men may be selected. 
There is no doubt about that. I trust that the Government will not make political appointees, but will take every step possible to secure the services of men who are whole-heartedly interested in Australia, who are prepared to make sacrifices to promote the progress of the Territory, and who will be thoroughly qualified to discharge the important duties that will devolve upon them. I trust that under no circumstances will persons who have lost their former position in politics be appointed to the commission without regard being paid to their qualifications. This commission will be one of the most important that any Commonwealth Government has appointed. It will assume control of a territory which, to my mind, has wonderful potentialities. Although I should not be in order if I discussed the general question of the construction of the north-south railway, I may be allowed to observe that in my opinion the Commonwealth Government and the South Australian Government have done wisely in entering into an arrangement to 'proceed with the work at least as far as Alice Springs. We may look for a marked development in the Northern Territory after the north-south line is built, but there . is very ' little chance of progress either there or in Central Australia until then. Even if the line does not return interest on the capital expenditure, the indirect benefit to the Commonwealth will fully justify the outlay. 
The line should follow the route most calculated to benefit the whole of Australia. I agree that there is room for a difference of opinion as to the route, but South Australia expects the Commonwealth Government to honour the contract made with that state. Railway communication is essential to the development of the Territory. I hope that when the bill is in committee honorable senators will give close attention to its provisions, and, if necessary, so amend  them as to ensure' that the measure will be entirely satisfactory in every respect. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator New-  land) adjourned. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.24p.m. to 8 p.m. 


I move - 
That the consideration of the Post and Telegraph Bill 1924, which lapsed by reason of the prorogation, be resumed at the stage it had reached during last session. 
The Post and Telegraph Bill, which I introduced last session, and which had reached the second-reading stage, lapsed by reason of the prorogation. If the motion is negatived I shall have again to obtain leave to introduce the bill, and, later, to repeat the arguments I used in moving the second reading. In view of this, I trust no opposition will be shown to the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

It is to be regretted that there should be any . necessity to submit such a motion as this to the Senate. As honorable senators are aware, Tasmania has, during the past six years, been placed in a most unfortunate position, owing to the annual discontinuance of the shipping service which connects Tasmania with the mainland. I wish to most strongly emphasize the point that the- State of Tasmania has rights equal to those possessed by any other state in the Commonwealth, and the time has arrived when the Tasmanian people are determined to see that those rights are recognized to the full. It appears to me that any state is entitled to expect the Commonwealth Government to see that communication is maintained, practically at all costs, between the various states. 
The Commonweal th Government should reasonably expect the hearty co-operation of the state immediately concerned. This principle should be recognized in the case of Tasmania, more so than in connexion with other states, because of its insular position. If there is any dislocation in the regular service between Tasmania and the mainland, the Tasmanian people must necessarily suffer very severely, because owing to its geographical position, and its climatic conditions, it is impossible for that state to be self-contained. As many of the commodities which are absolutely essential to the welfare of Tasmanian people have to . be procured from other parts of the Commonwealth, it is the duty of the Federal Government to see that continuous . communication is provided. During the past six years the Tasmanian people as the outcome of the dislocation of this service have experienced awful conditions, particularly at certain periods. The expression I have used is not sufficiently strong to convey to honorable senators the actual condition of affairs brought about by shipping strikes in recent years. Our tourist traffic each year assumes considerable dimensions, and in connexion with that traffic Tasmania has had an apparently assured harvest during certain months of the year, but it has been wrenched away by this dislocation . of shipping services. In addition, numerous persons who have established themselves in business in a small way have had the whole of their arrangements upset, and after the investment and expenditure of capital have been deprived of that reward to which they were reasonably entitled. Industrially and commercially Tasmania has suffered very severely, and all the inconvenience and loss which has occurred has been brought about at the whim of a few individuals who are never happier then when sowing seeds of discontent amongst the Australian workers. This is, I believe, the main reason why we have to contend with these intolerable shipping strikes and their attendant difficulties. 
There is a proper tribunal by which the cause can be removed. There may be causes in some instances, but we have spent thousands of pounds in providing the means. - whereby wrongs may be constitutionally righted. If certain individuals prefer to dislocate the means of communication! in carder to make their own positions secure rather than take advantage of. the Arbitration Court, it is evidence of the policy they wish to pursue. "We bad reasonable  prospects  of a. most prosperous tourist season ki Tasmania in January last, and a great many small settlers were looking forward with confidence to receiving fair returns from their fruit crops, but at the end of last year tha shipping service between Tasmania and! the mainland was. suddenly dislocated. The- result waa that many hundreds of tourists in Tasmania, who, were anxious to return to Victoria, and other states, to resume their duties, of which they had been relieved for a few weeks, were stranded. During the three weeks in which there was no regular service, hundreds of cases were brought directly under my notice, many of which were -pitiful in the extreme. In some instances, young women, who&gt; were without means, and who were anxious to return, were practically living on- the charity of Tasmanian people. Quite a number had arrived with sufficient money to spend a few weeks' holiday in Tasmania,, and had retained only sufficient to pay their return fares. When the dislocation in the shipping service occurred, some were without sufficient means to pay for accommodation, and young women who had insufficient to pay for a substantial meal were living on a c:up of tea and a scone. At least half a dozen people came to me during the strike, and explained their position in regard to their employment in Victoria. One man lost his situation owing to his extended and enforced absence from the mainland.  His  position, although his employer did his best to assist him, could not be kept open any longer. I may mention also the case of a man who was with his. wife and family on the north-west coast, and when informed that the  Largs Bay,  was to- visit Hobart hired a motor car hi which to travel to that city. He had proceeded some distance, on the way when he ascertained that the vessel was to call at the Tamar Heads, and in travelling to the boat he incurred an expenditure of £25. There were instances in which growers of small fruit, many of whom were returned  soldiers  suffered loss owing to the difficulty that was encountered in. getting supplies of sugar for use in the jam factories. Their fruit could not command the higher price it would have commanded if the factoriescould have accepted it from them. On this matter the people of Tasmania are unified. They are: unanimous: in their determination to have their rights recognized. Meetings have been held throughout the island. I was- very much impressed with the suggestions put forward, at a meeting convened by the municipal association of the north-west coast.. While. I note with pleasure the fact that, the Prime Minister has more than once expressed his determination to do all in his power to see that there is continuity of service in the future,, I think that the suggestion I put forward at the meeting, to which I have referred is worthy of adoption. That suggestion was that the mail contract with the shipping companies should provide that if at any time the service is discontinued by reason of a strike or lockout, or from any other cause, the control of the mail vessels should immediately pass to the Commonwealth Government. Had some such provision been in- operation last January Tasmania would not have been reduced to the unfortunate position in. which she found herself. Neither would the visitors to the island have had to suffer the inconvenience and losses they sustained. It was not until three weeks after the cessation of the service on account of .the strike that the Commonwealth Government assumed control of one of the two large steamers engaged iri the service, and in. that period was dene the immense amount of damage to which I have referred. Consequently, I trust that when this motion is carried by the Senate, and concurred in by another place, some provision will be made&gt; to avoid a repetition of the disastrous incidents of last January. The uncertainty of the shipping service has had a very damaging effect on the development of Tasmania. One can readily understand haw chary people are about extending their businesses or increasing their investments in concerns whose success depends upon the continuity of a shipping service with the mainland. The fear that this service may be suspended at any moment is always in the minds of the people of Tasmania, and I am confident that it has prevented the expansion of  many businesses.. It is an intolerable . dread, that something may happen just at a time when the people ought to be earning a decent reward for their indus-try or investments. A -little while ago I had the pleasure of reading in one of the Melbourne dailies a statement by tha Prime Minister that the Commonwealth Government ' intended to take steps to provide that the dislocations of the past should not be repeated. In view of that statement one. might reasonably ask why this motion is necessary, but it is necessary because it will enable the Prime Minister to know exactly how Parliament stands in regard to the matter. I should like to see Parliament unanimous upon it. It is not a party question, and I make an appeal to every honorable senator. The Commonwealth is composed of six states. Tasmania is one of them. She is unfortunate in many respects, particularly owing to her insular position, tart she is just as important for the welfare of the Commonwealth as a' whole, as is any other state. I believe honorable senators opposite will support the motion, because if anything should intenrna.pt the means of communication between states on the mainland, they would "be. the very first to do all in, their power to see that those means of communication were restored. No matter what the dispute may be between any two sections of the community, when the people of a state, who have no. part in the dispute, are isolated, a terrible hardship is inflicted upon them. "While we have machinery for the settlement of disputes it is outrageous that thousands of people, who may not be participants in those disputes, should be penalized by being deprived of employment for weeks, at a time. The average working man finds that he has as much ms he can do to make ends meet when his work is continuous, and it is difficult to make up leeway after several weeks of idleness. Therefore, I confidently ask honorable senators to support the motion. If it is carried unanimously the people, of Tasmania will have, the satisfaction of knowing that the representatives of the whole of Australia are determined that the rights of any state, no matter how small it may be, will have their protection. 
motion,, it is well that, honorable senators should understand the conditions of the present agreement between the PostmasterGeneral and Tasmanian Steamers Proprietary Limited,, which provides: for the mail services between the mainland and Tasmania.. The agreement provides that in the event,  miter aiia,  of strikes or lockouts- affecting the running of the mail steamers y the service, or services affected may be suspended by the contractors and resumed at the expiration of not more than 20 days from the date on which the cause of suspension ceases. The- contractors are not paid for any voyages which should have been made by the. contract steamers during the period of suspension. Briefly, Sanator Millen's suggestions ave that services suspended owing to strikes- or lockouts must be resumed wihin 48 hours from the hour at which suck suspension occurs, and that the Commonwealth Government shall, if required, find the necessary labour for manning the mail steamers. The agreement with the steamship company provides for &gt;a&gt; resumption after not more than  2/&amp;  days from the date on which the cause of suspension ceases. Therefore, in order to carry out the terms of  Senator Mill'en*s  motion, it would' be necessary for the contractors to concur in any amendment of the terms of the agreement desired during the currency of the contract or, failing concurrence on their part, for the PostmasterGeneral to give twelve months' notice, of termination of the contract, and invite tenders for continuance of the service under conditions including those suggested. It is well for honorable senators  to  recognize the legal position. I do not suppose that the steamship-owners would place any difficulty  m  the way of the- Commonwealth Government,, but if they stood on their rights the Commonwealth could not intervene until after 20 days.. 
Probably. The Prime Minister has already given a very definite assurance that the Government recognizes its responsibility to do its. utmost to. maintain a continuous service for passengers, and mails between Tasmania and the mainland. On the last  occasion when the service "was suspendedthere was irritation shown in Tasmania - a very natural irritation in the circumstances - but a little consideration of what actually happened will show that there was good justification for the delay on the part of the Commonwealth Government. From day to day the information given in the press and otherwise was that a settlement of the dispute was just about to be effected. Honorable senators will recollect that the matter was before the Arbitration Court on several occasions. It looked from day to day as if the dispute was just about over, but it dragged oil until at last the Ministry saw that the seamen's representatives were playing with the court, and that it was part of their plan to make it appear that there would be a. settlement, while all the while they did not intend that there should be one. Therefore, it stepped in, manned the  Nairana,'  and resumed the passenger and mail service by that boat. I have a list of the mails carried between the island and the mainland during that period of interruption. They were mostly carried by small cargo" boats, but the list shows that, notwithstanding the strike, the Postmaster-General maintained a service which was practically equal in the number of arrivals and departures to that which was obtaining previously. Of course, there was some delay, because the smaller boats took a longer time than is usually taken by the larger vessels to make the passage. The list shows that the . Postmaster-General's Department did its utmost to maintain a mail service, but, of course, the passenger service was considerably interrupted.  Tasmania is obviously in a different position from that of any other state. It is much more seriously affected by a shipping strike than is any other state, which can be reached by a railway connexion. The Commonwealth Government recognizes that fact to the full, and intends to do everything it can to avert any future dislocation of the service between the mainland and the island. However, the State Government also has some responsibility in the matter. It is presumed to represent the people of Tasmania, who, we are assured by honorable senators, take a very serious view of the frequent dislocations of the service between the state and the mainland, because they are considerably injured by them. I do not suppose that a day passed during the last  period of interruption when the Commonwealth Government did not get two or more telegrams from the Premier of Tasmania, urging it to do something for the people of the state. It did something for them, and recognizing that it would probably be necessary to coal the  Nairana  when that vessel reached Launceston, and that heated feelings are always created when strikes are in progress - an instance of this occurred in Western Australia, where the strikers prevented the Customs officials, the health officials, and other officers from going on board steamers to carry out Commonwealth functions - the Government thought it advisable to telegraph to the Premier of Tasmania.. We asked him to give an assurance that when the vessel reached Launceston, if it had to coal, or carry out any other service, his Government would do that which lay within its province and provide police protection if it should be required. So far as I am aware, the Commonwealth Government had no reply to that telegram. If the people of Tasmania are anxious that this service should be maintained, if they are really indignant at the constant interruptions, they should a"- least see that their Government gives a guarantee . that any vessel which is provided for the purpose of maintaining the service they need so much has an uninterrupted discharge at any port in the state at which she calls. 
I can assure the honorable senator that the telegram, was sent and that, so far as I am aware, no reply has been received. 
They ought to be, because the Commonwealth Government did its utmost to provide Tasmania with a steamship service during this interruption. It did its best to enable the service to be carried on, and to avert the injury which the state suffered. The Commonwealth Government, in turn, has a right to expect that the State Government will carry out its own obligations. Under the Constitution, the state authorities have control over the police force, and when they are appealed to by the Commonwealth Government to provide necessary police protection, they should reply promptly, and in favorable terms. The Government has no objection to the motion, for it suggests a course of action along lines on which the Government has already given an undertaking to proceed. But I do suggest that there is some obligation on the part of the Tasmanian Government to co-operate with the Commonwealth, and see that the' shipping service is not interrupted by any illdisposed persons. 
I have every sympathy with Tasmania, because of its insular position. I realize that it has many difficulties, and any remarks that I may make to-night should not be construed as antagonistic to that state or its people. The Commonwealth Government has certain duties to perform, and I point out that the powers suggested by the motion are already possessed by it. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has already informed honorable senators of the action the Government took, showing that it possesses these powers. 
If any assurance was necessary, it was given by the action of the Government during the recent interruption of the service. 
The honorable senator not only sought an assurance that certain things would be done, but he also went out of his way to lay the whole of the blame for the interruption of the service on the Seamen's Union. 
That union was not the originator of the trouble. The blame lies at the door of theCommonwealth Shipping Board, which attempted to evade an award of the Commonwealth Arbitration Court by chartering vessels outside the Commonwealth Line. While steamers of the Commonwealth Line were lying idle, vessels manned with crews who were not paid Australian rates of wages or working under Australian conditions, were chartered. 
I am simply expressing my opinion as to the origin of the trouble, just as the mover of the motion did. Had the Commonwealth Shipping Board obeyed the award of the Arbitration Court, the Tasmanian service would not have been interrupted, as far as the seamen were concerned.  Senator J.  D. Millen went on to say that the Government must regulate unionism, or unionism would regulate the Government, but the honorable senator did not say, as he might have done, that " employerdom " was regulating the Government. 
It would have - been " more truthful than the statement that unionism was regulating the Government. The honorable senator referred to the oligarchy of unionism, but said nothing of the oligarchy of the ship-owners. 
I maintain that there is an oligarchy in the Steamship Owners'- Association of Australia. This has shown itself within the past 48 hours, for although the Commonwealth Shipping Board is willing to settle the present trouble with the Seamen's Union, the associated shipowners decline to enter into the proposed agreement. I should be inclined to go a good deal further into this subject were it not for the fact that attempts are now being made to settle the dispute. I do not intend to support the motion, because, in my opinion, there is no necessity for it. Honorable senators from Tasmania should  be content with the assurance given that the Government will take all necessary steps to maintain continuity of the shipping services between Tasmania and the mainland. Had the Commonwealth Shipping Board been alive to its responsibilities, it could have commissioned one of its idle steamers to maintain an uninterrupted service. 
It chartered vessels outside the line in order to defy the award of the court. 
That was done because the conditions of the award were not being observed. 
The Commonwealth Line of Steamers should be free from political influence, and the board should see that the line is used to its fullest extent. My contention is that the board, and not the seamen, is to blame for the position in which Tasmania found itself. 
I desire to support the motion so ably moved fey  Senator J.  D. Millen, I well know, as  Senator Needham  has pointed out, that the Government has power at the present time to dispatch steamers to Tasmania ; but honorable senators from my state desire the Government to use that power, and we wish to have the support of honorable senators on both sides of this chamber. We desire to give the party opposite an opportunity to say whether they think that Tasmania should be  cut  off periodically from the rest of Australia, or whether they contend that an uninterrupted service should be maintained. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  has stated that the Government feels that the service should be maintained, but Tasmania requires an assurance that the Commonwealth will be ready at a moment's notice to assist, if necessary,' in providing a regular service. Only people who have been to Tasmania can realize the loss and inconvenience caused by the periodical shipping strikes. I have heard it said that notwithstanding the disabilities to which Tasmania has been subjected by the Navigation Act, its trade is continually increasing. It will be a bad day for Tasmania, just as for the rest of the Commonwealth., when its trade ceases to increase. But I point out that people do not travel from Tasmania to the mainland at the present time unless compelled to do so for business reasons. The tourist who may be contemplating a visit to the island now asks himself whether he will be able to return. Some time ago I inquired at the Tourist Bureau for some authentic figures regarding the Tasmanian tourist traffic, and found that during the last three years it has been a decreasing quantity. In 1923, according to the Tourist Bureau figures, 5,116 people travelled to Tasmania; in 1924 the number was 4,300, a decrease of 7 16 ; and so far this year there have been 3,300 tourists, a decrease of 1,000 on last year's figures. In three. years the traffic has decreased 30 per cent. The strikes have been solely responsible for this. It is impossible for those who do not live in Tasmania to understand how sensitive the people there have become to strikes and rumours of strikes. The frequency of these shipping hold-ups has made stability impossible for the producers in Tasmania. Only a week ago rumours of a strike caused a big slump in the price of potatoes in the north-west of Tasmania. As soon as the rumours gained currency the people rushed their potatoes to Sydney, which was the only market then available to them, and the market was glutted. Instead of disposing of their produce regularly over the twelve months of the year, our people are in such constant fear that they will not be  able to get shipping when they want it, that they market their produce spasmodically. There is either a glut or a famine. Although last week potatoes went down£1 a ton, they have since gone up £2 a ton, for the strike rumours have somewhat subsided. It is impossible to regulate trade satisfactorily under present conditions. What Tasmania wants, and what she has a right to expect, is that both sides of this Chamber shall say definitely that she is entitled to a regular and certain shipping service. On the occasion of the last strike it was expected every day for three weeks that a settlement would  be  reached, and the Minister in that respect put up a good case; but why in the name of common sense cannot these disputes  be  settled while the boats are running as well as while they are tied up at the wharf ? We shall have an opportunity, when this vote is taken, of seeing who in the Senate are in favour of isolating Tasmania and who are not.. I was tremendously shocked to learn from the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)'  to-night that the Tasmanian Government refused to provide police protection for the men who were employed at Launceston to coal the boats that were preparing to run during the last strike. 
I do not wish it to be understood that I said the Tasmanian Government refused police protection ; but I think I am entitled to say that its failure to answer the Ministers telegram may be . construed as a refusal to do so. I trust that both sides of this Chamber will vote for this motion and so in favour of keeping the wheels of industry moving in Tasmania. If Tasmania had not been an island, she would have had railway connexion with the other states, and these continual strikes would not occur. All honorable senators have an opportunity now to indicate whether they favour maintaining a regular shipping service to Tasmania or whether they prefer isolating her. 
I support this motion with a great deal of pleasure. My first reason for doing so is that I represent another state that is unfavorably situated from the point of view of connexion with the more populous parts of the Commonwealth. It is very necessary that states like Western Australia and Tasmania should support' each other as far as possible. My second reason is that it gives me another opportunity to protest against what is really at the bottom of this trouble, I refer to that legislative misfit, the Navigation Act, which is an impenetrable hedge, or a barbed-wire entanglement, between justice and those people - I do not say honorable gentlemen opposite - who are advising the Seamen's Union. If it were not for the Navigation Act and the protection which it affords these people, their practices, which cause so much inconvenience, would be impossible. Why do we continue to keep on our statute-book those sections of the Navigation Act that have crippled Tasmania and Western Australia, done a great deal of harm to Queensland, and strangled Papua and New Guinea ? 
-That is so, for Darwin is no longer a port of call for oversea vessels. In these circumstances, I consider it my clear duty, as the representative of a state which is vitally con- cerned in the mater, to vote for the motion as a protest against the retention of legislation which makes possible the position in which Tasmania finds herself. 
I also support the motion with a great deal of pleasure. I regret extremely that there was necessity for moving it. 1 have been connected with this Chamber for only two years, but if my memory, which carries me back many years, is reliable, this subject has been debated in one House or the other in practically every session of the Federal Parliament. It has always been a vexed question as to who is responsible for the unsatisfactory position of Tasmania, but the fact remains that the people there have spent a tremendous amount of energy and money in endeavouring to settle it. An annual and heavy loss, as well as serious inconvenience, is caused to the people of Tasmania through these shipping disputes. I believe that  Senator Kingsmill  put his finger onone of the chief causes of our troubles. The operation ofthe Navigation Act has contributed largely to Tasmania's difficulties. I have no desire at the moment to discuss that measure or the suggested amendments to it, but. I hope that every honorable senator will realize how unsatisfactory Tasmania's position is. Certain sections of the Navigation Act, which, I believe, were wrongly placed in it, are highly inimical to Tasmania's welfare. 
I have allowed honorable senators to make passing references to the Navigation Act during this discussion. That is permissible under the rules of debate. But honorable senators are mot permitted to anticipate the discussion of other motions on the notice-paper. The very next business that will come before the Senate is  Senator Ogden's  motion, which relates to the Navigation Act. I must ask the honorable senator, therefore, not to discuss that matter any further. 
The rules of debate are emphatic on the point. 
.- I should not have spoken in this debate except for the peculiar attitude that  Senator Needham  has adopted. He told the Senate that he believed that it was necessary to maintain a regular shirking service between the mainland and Tasmania, and that the Government had power to do so; "but," he added, "it will do so without my support." That is a peculiar attitude. It appears to me that  Senator Needham  has not the courage of his convictions. 
If he had, he would realize that it is his duty to support the motion. 
Whether the cause of these strikes may be laid at the doors of the ship-owners or the seamen, Tasmania should not be made to suffer all the time. Prior to the last strike I was in Melbourne on public business, and intended to stay about a week, but learning from some one who had inside information that a strike was about to occur, I returned to my own state on the day that I landed. Hardly had I reached Tasmania before a strike occurred.  Senator Needham  has attempted to show that the trouble was due to an attempt on the part of the ship-owners to charter ships. 
Well, that is what I understood the honorable senator to say. It appears that the trouble was the outcome of a dispute between a seaman and one of the officers - I believe the officer gave the seaman a push. I should have thought that the right thing to do in such circumstances would have been for them to conclude the argument between themselves instead of penalizing the unfortunate public. Under existing conditions and with the perfection of our industrial machinery, there should be no reason for strikes in Australia. I should like to tell  Senator Needham,  if he does not know it already, that the seamen have not gained in popularity among their fellow unionists by the tactics which they have been adopting during the past few years. Unions have obligations to the people as well as to themselves. They should not be selfish, but should think of the interests of the people. I agree with the mover of the motion that there is an obligation on the part of the Tasmanian Government to support any effort made in this Parliament to improve the shipping facilities between Tasmania and the mainland. I trust therefore that  Mr. Lyons  and his Government will take whatever action may be necessary to achieve this end, and that immediate relief will be granted by the Federal Government. 
I rise to support the motion. At the outset, I should like to express disappointment at the modesty of the mover  (Senator Millen),  who asks only that there shall be no interruption in the transport of passengers between Tasmania  and the mainland. He leaves out of consideration the transport of goods, which in my judgment is equally  important, because Tasmania, being isolated from the mainland, is on occasions in much the same position as a beleaguered city or a . country under blockade. Strikes with their consequent interruption of steamship services to Tasmania are just as serious as a blockade by enemy forces. How would honorable senators opposite feel if at a critical lime, when the produce of their twelve months' labour was ripening in the field, there should come like a bolt from the blue an interruption of those public services by which their products were marketed  1  How would they feel if the product of their labour had to rot on the trees or in the fields? These frequent interruptions are totally unwarranted and unjustifiable. This man-made blight, this man-made calamity, falls upon the state least able to bear it. I heard   Senator Needham  say something about the Commonwealth line of ships being responsible for much of this trouble. Does not the honorable senator know, without being told, that by instituting a strike to remedy a grievance, those responsible for it are violating a Labour-made law? "When we find in the chamber, as well as out of it, apologists for this- infraction of Commonwealth law, is it not about time that we faced the situation squarely, because what is happening in Tasmania to-day might happen to mainland states tomorrow ? Fortunately the latter states are linked up by railway systems, and even in times of industrial strife are able to keep the wheels of industry going, at least in some sort of fashion. Tasmania, being isolated from the mainland, is in a totally different position. Is it right that one state should have to submit to a condition of affairs which would not be tolerated by other states?  Senator Needham;  so I understand, is going to vote against the motion. I do not know how many other honorable senators opposite will vote with him, but I am going to vote for it, although it is only an instalment of what I should like to see. I should like the people of Tasmania to appeal to the Commonwealth Government for an assurance that cargo, as well as passenger, services will be maintained, because, unless goods can be freely interchanged between the--' states, the trade of the state that is penalized must be paralyzed by this man-made blight of strikes and industrial disturbances. Droughts, floods, and such like visitations of nature are as nothing compared with' the calamity of an organized strike, but if the people do not assert themselves, they deserve to be kicked all the time at the instance of that outlaw section of the community that is behind these industrial upheavals. The motion merely asks for an assurance that the Government will place Tasmania, in relation to its passenger trade, in the same position as other component parts of the Commonwealth. The alternative is a policy of strikes, lockouts, and industrial disturbances, unless the remedy can be applied. Any honorable senator who votes against the motion must, therefore, declare himself to be in favour of the causes that prevent the application of the remedy. I firmly believe that Tasmania, if given a chance, is capable of a great future. Therefore I have much pleasure in supporting the motion. I sincerely hope that honorable senators opposite will do likewise, and that even  Senator Needham  will see his way clear to change his mind, because it is not playing the game to penalize one state of the Commonwealth by these industrial disturbances. The time has come to speak out plainly. If every other element in the community had the right to strike to-morrow, the resort to this barbaric weapon for the settlement of industrial disputes would soon cease. If, for example, our primary producers - those people engaged in the production of, say. onions, potatoes, wheat, or dairy produce, in Tasmania or elsewhere - could say that their produce would not be marketed unless they received whatever they saw fit to demand, or more, for them,  Mr. Walsh, Mr. Garden,  and their friends would quickly be brought to their bearings. And because, in the nature of things, they cannot do this, there is no sound reason why any other man, or. set of men, should do it or be allowed to do it. But, because they cannot do that,  Mr. Walsh  and his friends can hold a pistol at the head of society and say : "I am your master, I am your overlord," and so effectively disorganize important public services of the Commonwealth. These unscrupulous industrial leaders, who have been engaged over -long in blackmailing society, must be checked. I shall vote for the motion whole-heartedly, and, in the belief, that by its adaption a small measure of justice will be done to the: island state. 
I shall be very brief in my reply to the debate.. Dealing, first of all with the reference made by the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  to the agreement, between the Postmaster-General and certain shipping companies- for the conveyance of mails between Melbourne and Tasmania," I would remind the Senate that that agreement may be determined at short notice by either side. It would,, therefore, be quite feasible to amend it in the way suggested by me when submitting this motion. As to the suggestion made by  Senator Lynch,  that we should also ask the Commonwealth Government for an assurance that there will be a continuity of service in the transport of goods, I remind him that the vessels that provide continuity of transport for passengers will have ample space for cargo, and if this mail service is maintained without interruption there will be no further trouble in respect of the carriage of our produce. I was somewhat surprised to learn from the Minister this evening that the Tasmanian Government, when asked for assistance, did not give the Commonwealth the definite and vigorous support that might very properly have been expected in the circumstances. Iwas also very disgusted to find that when the Commonwealth Government provided a volunteer crew to take the  Nairana  to Tasmania, some of the men employed on the wharf at Launceston absolutely refused to coal the vessel at that port. That element must be firmly dealt with, and I am glad to say that it comprises only a very small section of the people of . Tasmania. The great bulk of the people of that state have been most seriously inconvenienced, and tragic incidents have occurred in consequence of the dislocation of the shipping service between Tasmania and the mainland.  I  trust that the Senate will carry this motion. 
.- Many of. the difficulties experienced, owing to the operation of the Navigation Act, have been discussed on the motion which the Senate has just passed. A royal commission has been most carefully conducting investigations into the operations of the Navigation Act, and some of its earlier recommendations have been extensively quoted during the debate on the motion to which I have just referred. The Government have only just received the latest report, of the commission,, and owing, to- the indisposition of the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Pratten),  who is in. charge of the Department of Navigation, I have not had an opportunity of conferring with him concerningthe recommendations contained in the report. For these reasons I. ask leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted- debate adjourned. 
-Ican assure the mover of the motion that the Government fully realize  the great difficulties under which Western Australia is at present labouring, and is very anxious  to  do the right thing at the proper time. 
No-. The Government has, however, not yet had time to consider the report of the royal commis-. sion on the operations of the Navigation Act. 
Honorable senators will realize- that the recommendations  of  the royal commission must receive the mature consideration  of  the Government before I shall be in a position to speak authoritatively on the question. The report of the commission was only received last week and, as I stated on the previous motion, the responsible Minister  (Mr. Pratten),  whom I must consult before  I debate the motion, is indisposed. 
SenatorWILSON. - In my present position I can express only the views of the Government. We have no desire, to delay the discussion longer than is neces sary ; but, inview of thecircumstances  I have mentioned, I ask leave to continue my speech at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
.- I desire to bring under the notice of the Minister representing, the Minister for Defence the position regarding the aerial mail contract recently entered into between the Larkin-Sopwith Company and the Commonwealth Government. To-day I asked the Minister  (Senator Crawford)  a series of questions, in which I pointed out that under the original contract this company was to provide an aerial mail service between Adelaide and Brisbane. That contract was never carried out by. the company, which, I understand, was far a time given permission to exclude the service to Queensland until it had obtained new aeroplanes from Great Britain, which were then on order. I was, therefore, very surprised to learn, from the reply received from the Minister today, that the original contract had expired, and chat a new contract had been entered into between the Government and the Larkin-Sopwith Company which includes Melbourne in the Adelaide to Sydney service, and that the service to Brisbane, which was embodied in the original contract, has been deleted. There is, therefore, little prospect of the service, which was also to serve the Northern Rivers district, being extended to Brisbane for some considerable time. In entering into a new contract under which Queensland has been excluded the Government have acted in  a  very unfair manner towards that state. It is not unreasonable to ask the Government to make some provision on the lines provided in the original contract,as we were definitely assured by the ex-Prime Minister  (Mr. W. M. Hughes)  that Brisbane would be included in the company's itinerary. I have brought this matter wider the notice of the Government in the hope that something will be done on behalf of Queensland, which has not the short train distance from Sydney to Brisbane which exists between Adelaide and Melbourne  and Melbourne and Sydney. 
 I shall ask the Minister  (Senator Crawford),  who is temporarily absent, to bring the remarks of the honorable senator under the notice of the Minister for Defence  (Sir Neville Howse). 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is  it  a fact that the Prime Minister has demanded  an  explanation from the Shipping Board  in  connexion with the agreement entered intoproviding for the inclusion  in  the  Beamen's  articles of the recent award  of  the Arbitration Court? 
Is it also a fact that the Prime Minister, when the Commonwealth Shipping Bill was before Parliament, stated that the board would be beyond  all  political influence; and,  if  so, what explanation  has  the Prime Minister for having done  so? 
I am advised by the Prime Minister that he communicated with the hoard after he saw the notification of the settlement that had been arrived at, and asked, for the information of the Government, to ho advised as to what exactly was the action which the board had taken. Parliament, by the Commonwealth Shipping Act, placed the administration of the Line in the hands of the Shipping Board, and this position is recognized by the Government. In no case has it interfered in the internal administration of the Line. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,upon  notice - 
Will the Government instruct the Commissioner of Taxation to forthwith furnish Parliament with the annual reports on the working of the War-time Profits Tax Assessment Act 1917-18, as required by section 6 (4) thereof, in respect of the financial years 1918-19. 1910-20, 1920-21, 1921-22, 1922-23, 1923-24, and 1924-25? 
Will the Government further instruct the Commissioner of Taxation to indicateclearly in such reports whether it is a fact (and, if so, the reasons therefor) that the war-time profits tax payable by persons who were on active service outside Australia, and who have been assessed for this tax, is, in everycase, greater than the war-time profits tax ("and in some instances greater than the war-time profits tax and income tax combined), to which they would have been liable had they not enlisted for active service outside Australia? 
Will the Government give immediate attention to the introduction of legislation which will provide that persons who havebeen assessed in respect of profits accruing to them while they were on active service outside Australia, shall be granted a refund of the amount by which the tax actually paid by them in respect of such profits exceeds the amount of tax to which they would have been liablehad they not so been on active service? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's questions: - 
The report in respect of the year 1918-9 is in course of preparation. The tax ceased to operate at the 30th June, 1919, and the work which has been since carried on is almost entirely "clearingup" work. Some of this is due, however, to the 1924 act. The report will deal with all those matters. 2 and 3. The Commissioner of Taxation is not aware of any case to which these questions could apply, and if the honorable senator thinks that there are any such cases, it is suggested that they be brought under the notice of the Commissioner. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works and Railways,  upon notice - 
Has any furniture been ordered or purchased that will be required at Canberra by the Commonwealth Government? 
If so, were tenders invited; and, if not, why ? 
If any furniturehas been ordered or purchased, from whom was it purchased, what has been purchased, and what was the price of such goods? 
Will the Minister assure the Senate that no  furniture  will bo purchased without tenders first being called? 
-The Minister for Works and Railways supplied the following answer to the honorable senator's questions : - 
The matter is not one being dealt with in the Works and Railways Department. The Federal Capital Commission will be asked for a report. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What amount of  revenue  bae been refunded up to the 30th June, 1925, on account of the rejection of the  Lessee  Tax Bill last session! 
The Commissioner of Taxation has informed the Treasurer that the amount is £91,641 fis. 9d. 
I have to report the receipt of a message from the Hou3e of Representatives acquainting the Senate that  Mr. Prowse,  a member of the House of Representatives, has been appointed a member of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts in place of  Mr. Hunter,  who has been discharged from attendance. 
I move- 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders bo suspended as would prevent the bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
I regret that the circumstances in which this bill comes before the Senate, render it necessary to ask the. Senate to suspend the Standing and Sessional Orders lo onable the bill to pass through all its stages to-day. Without explaining the measure itself, it is difficult to furnish honorable senators with a reason why this unusual and, from many points of view objectionable, course should be taken. I may explain, however, that the  Treasurer  saw me this morning, and impressed upon me that there were very urgent reasons why the bill should be dealt with at once. He informed me that ite passage to-day will probably facilitate the financial transactions which the measure authorizes. This view is supported by tho opinions of the financial advisers of the Commonwealth, as well as by State Treasurers who desire that immediate action be taken. The bill itself raises a simple issue. It proposes to give the Commonwealth Government the same authority to borrow overseas for the states that we now have to borrow for them in Australia. That is practically the whole issue, although, of course, the conditions under which loan money may be raised are set out, and they may vary. 
Does the Minister wish the bill to pass through all its stages to-day ? 

 Senator NEEDHAM (Western Australia) [11.91.-1 agree with the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  that it is extraordinary to ask the Senate to suspend the Standing and Sessional Orders to permit this Loan Bill to pass to-day, but in view of the urgency of the situation, honorable senators on this side will not offer opposition. I have always raised my voice against the suspension of standing and sessional orders to rush important legislation through, and I know of no more important measures than those dealing with finance. I presume, however, _ that the Minister would not submit this motion unless he was prepared, when moving the second reading, to furnish honorable senators with further information as to the urgency of the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill (on motion by  Senator Pearce)  read a first time. 
Secondreading. 
In moving 
That the bill be now read a second time, 
I desire to acknowledge the courtesy shown by the Senate in agreeing to allow the bill to pass all its stages without delay. This is a measure to enable the Commonwealth to give effect to the arrangements made recently by the Loan Council in regard to borrowing for the states during  the  present financial year. It represents an extension of the functions of the Loan Council in that hitherto the authority of the Commonwealth to act as borrower for the states had been limited to loans raised within Australia. Even that limited form of control was exceedingly advantageous both to the Commonwealth and to the states, because it removed competition between the states, which, prior to the creation of the Loan Council, was at times disastrous financially to certain of the states. 
SenatorFoll. - Are all the states in the scheme now? 
Yes, subject to certain qualifications which I shall indicate before I resume my seat. As the result of voluntary regulation by the Commonwealth and the states of their respective borrowings, loans have been obtained by the states on better terms, and the. Australian money market has had periods of freedom, which is very important from the point of view of the development of industry and assistance to private enterprise. It is extremely disadvantageous for State Governments to be scrambling for loan money in Australia throughout each financial year. The Loan Council, by acting for the states, has prevented this injudicious competition. To enable concerted action in connexion with the loan requirements of states, Parliament authorized the Commonwealth Government last year to raise a loan of £10,300,000 for the developmental works of the states, and to convert or arrange for the redemption of state loans which matured in Australia during the last financial year. Both the loans issued in Australia by the Commonwealth for the states last year were fully subscribed on terms which at the time were satisfactory to the governments concerned. The most notable feature of the money market during the last nine months has been the steady fall of interest rates. In September, 1924, Commonwealth bonds were issued giving an effective rate of interest to the investor of £6 7s. for the fiveyear period, and  £6  4s. for the ten-year period. At present, Commonwealth bonds are selling on the market at prices which show to the investor interest of less than 5½ per cent. Thus in the last nine months rates of interest have fallen more than¾ per cent. per annum. This considerable fall may be ascribed to the abstention of the Governments from local borrowing, the removal of the embargo on the export of gold, and to the favorable position of the chief primary products. Borrowing in London last year was carried on as before, each Government issuing its own loans. An agreement was, ' however, reached as to the amount which each Government would so raise in London. At its recent meetings, the Loan Council agreed, amongst other things - 
That its operations shall continue during the financial year 1925-26; 
that in respect of new money required in Australia by the several governments during the year the Commonwealth shall act as the sole borrower; 
that during the conversion of the war loan falling due on the 15th December next, no other public borrowing will be undertaken in Australia; 
that concerted action be taken with regard to all overseas borrowing of the Commonwealth and the states during 1925-26. 
It will be seen that very definite arrangements have been made regarding public borrowing in Australia during 1925-26. The Commonwealth will have a clear field for the conversion of the £68,000,000 war loan falling due on the 15th December, and the Commonwealth will be the sole borrower in respect of the whole of the money to be raised in Australia this financial year for the states. As I have already said, concerted action is to be taken with regard to all overseas borrowing, during 1925-26.  Senator Needham,  when speaking on the motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders, expressed the hope that in moving the second reading of the bill I would be able to give some reason for its urgency. I am sorry that I cannot do that, as it is undesirable in the interests of the Commonwealth and of the states to disclose our plans in. regard to overseas borrowing. . It is undesirable, indeed, to state at present what plan's are ' proposed in regard to overseas borrowing. It is not the practice to make announcements regarding loan arrangements until' the negotiations have been completed, becauseally  announcement during the negotiations might prejudice the success of the plans. Under the bill authority is sought for the Treasurer to enter into agreement with the states regarding the loan programme of 1925-26. . The agreements are to provide what moneys may be borrowed by the Commonwealth for the states, and the terms and conditions under which the moneys may be lent to the states. The agreements will also provide for the conversion into Commonwealth loans or for the redemption by the Commonwealth of state loans falling due up to the 1st July, 1926. The subsequent sections of the bill give the Treasurer authority to borrow the necessary moneys and to apply those moneys for the purposes of the agreement. Power is also asked for the Treasurer to make advances to the states pending the issue of the proposed loans. This is one of the matters in respect of which the bill is urgent. Some of the states are at present urgently in need of advances. These advances will be repayable to the Commonwealth when the loans are issued.  Authority is also sought for the Treasurer to convert into Commonwealth, loans any state loans falling due up to the 1st July, 1926. A definite limit is provided in the bill to the money the Commonwealth may raise. This limit is not expressed in figures. The Commonwealth will be authorized to borrow such amounts as are declared by the agreements with the states to be necessary for the general loan purposes of the states, and as have been, or may be, authorized by the Parliaments of the states up to the 30th June, 1926. In regard to the point raised by  Senator Greene,  I may explain that there is no authority in this measure to enable the Commonwealth- to borrow money for its own purposes. 
No; but it does affect the situation, since by reason of the agreement the State Governments will keep off the market while the conversion loans are being floated. If the Commonwealth Government desires to borrow any portion of that money overseas, it has to obtain authority. 
Authority is taken for the conversion of state loans by. the Commonwealth. 
.- If the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  was at a disadvantage in presenting the bill this morning, I am still more severely handicapped, inasmuch as I have only just received a copy, and have not yethad time to peruse it. As I stated when speaking on the motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders, I realize the urgency of the bill. I understand that at the last meeting of the Loan Council, at which all states were represented, the proposals embodied in the measure were adopted. I understand that the money proposed to be raised will be borrowed abroad - I should prefer it to . be raised in the Commonwealth - and that this is a favorable time to go on the market. It is anticipated, of course, that the money to be raised will be used on reproductive works. The Australian money market should be as favorable as any other market outside the Commonwealth. 
Those limitations should be removed, and Australian financiers should assist in the raising of loans locally. However, we must meet the emergency, and assist the states by giving them that financial help which they require. The right honorable gentleman has informed us that some of the states are eager to obtain financial assistance, and I do not wish to be one to assist in depriving them of any help which they may require. The absence of the Premier of New South Wales  (Mr. Lang)  from the meetings of the Loan Council was due not to any disinclination on the part of that state to be represented at its deliberations, but to the fact that he was assisting in endeavouring to determine an important industrial dispute. If  Mr. Lang  had been free, I am sure he would have been present at the meetings of the Loan Council. It was impossible for Western Australia to be represented by the Premier at the meetings of the council, as  Mr. Collier,  who has been abroad, returned to Western Australia only on 
Tuesday last, and it is only two or three weeks ago since  Mr. Angwin,  the Acting Premier, and Treasurer, attended a previous meeting of the council. In the absence of the Acting Premier,  Mr. Simpson,  of the Treasury Department of Western Australia, attended. In view of the circumstances outlined by the Minister, I think we should pass the bill through all its stages without delay, so that the necessary negotiations may be commenced and the loan raised as soon as possible. I trust, however, that the Senate will .not again be asked to pass such an important measure at such short notice. It should be an easy matter for the Loan Council to meet at such periods as would enable the Commonwealth Government to have sufficient time to consider its proposals and then introduce thenecessary legislation. The Loan Council should prove a benefit to the Commonwealth and the states in the matter of borrowing, but measures such as this should be submitted in ample time to enable us to give their provision the fullest possible consideration. When the states were acting independently, the rates of interest were frequently higher. It is essential to regulate borrowing in such a way that only one Australian authority will be on the . market at one time. When there is a rush of applicants, of course, the people who have money to lend will certainly charge more for it. I have nothing further to say on the bill, except to emphasize the point that we should not be asked to rush through measures of this character. 

 Senator GREENE (New South Wales) 1 1.1. 31]. - I join with the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  and the  Deputy  Leader of tho Opposition  (Senator Needham),  in the regret they have expressed that we should be called upon at such short notice to pass through all its stages to-day a bill embracing subjects which may profoundly affect, for some time to. come, the whole economic structure of Australia. I am sorry that we should be required in this hurried way to discuss the matter, since the issues involved call for the quiet and thoughtful consideration of every honorable senator, and it is impossible in the little time at our disposal to travel even cursorily over them. I congratulate the Government and the Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page)  on the fact that they have been able to maintain the position which was brought to a final consummation last year - the arrangement for getting the states to move in step with the Commonwealth in the great loan operations necessary for Australia. Any one acquainted with the history of the Commonwealth knows that from the very inception of federation efforts have been made to draw all the states into line with the Commonwealth in these big loan transactions. The efforts of the Commonwealth in this regard met with no response from the states right up to the time of the war, and then force of circumstances compelled them to come into line. The extraordinary financial position created after the war induced them, subsequently, to see the wisdom of doing what I venture to say it would have been wise for them all to do long before they finally agreed to the establishment of the Loan Council, and thus make combined loan operations possible. I am strongly of opinion that so long as the moneys we borrow are spent on reproductive works Australia has very little to fear from the growth of its loan operations, provided, of course, that there is a regular progressive works developmental policy. So long as that is kept within reasonable bounds the country has nothing whatever to fear from the extension of its loan operations. It is true that we have a very large unproductive debt arising out of the war, but the legislation which has already been passed by this Parliament provides for its gradual and steady extinction. I was glad to note that the Treasurer, a few days ago, sought the approval of the Parliament for his "proposal that any moneys received by way of reparations should be used towards the redemption of the national debt. The important consideration that we have to face is the extent to which our unproductive debt exceeds that incurred in respect of productive works, and I think that the figures show that we have no cause whatever to be alarmed at our financial position. We ought not to look at the position from the stand-point of those who talk about Australia's public debt of £1,000,000,000 as being a colossal load for this country to carry. We ought rather to look at how much has been spent on productive works, because, to a large extent, that portion of our indebtedness does not represent debt in the ordinary sense of the national debts of most countries. As long as we go on with the gradual, but steady, reduction of the war debt, which is a distinctly, unproductive debt, and, at the same time, provide a sinking fund  i&amp;  relation to our other debts, we shall have nothing to fear from our loan operations. 
Many people think that all our loans should be raised in Australia; but, after all is said and done, there is only a certain amount of money which it is possible to raise in this country. The Jinan1 cial pool is there, but it is very difficult, to speak definitely of its extent. It is clear, however,, that if the Government keeps dipping into it for all its requirements less remains in it for private enterprise to use in a productive way in Australia. We must ever bear in mind that we are really only on the fringe of Australia's development. An enormous amount of developmental work has yet to be done and it can be done only by the expenditure of money. I am one of those who believe that the more that is spent by private enterprise in the development of the country, and the less that is spent by the state, the more rapid our progress will be. I believe that while there is room for development the Government should hesitate to drain the local financial pool year by year, and thus prevent the citizens of the country from using their money and their experience in helping to still further develop this great heritage that we have. Consequently, when the necessity exists, as I believe it does at present, to go abroad for money, I do not think we should hesitate to do so. There are people who say, " What, then, will become of our protective policy? What will happen to the people who are putting their money into enterprise, and doing their best to make Australia self-contained from a manufacturing point of view? Must we not get in the form of goods all the money we borrow abroad?" I do not think it always works out in that way. In fact, I am quite sure that it does not. I have not the time this morning to state at length my reasons for that belief, but I remind honorable senators that within the last few months we have seen that which very definitely proves that, when credits are established abroad - for that is really what borrowing abroad means - it is not always necessary for those credits to come  back to Australia in the form of merchandise. Within the last few months we hare seen about £12,000,000 in gold coming to Australia. I venture to suggest that the advent of that £12,000,000 has had f ar more to do with the reduction of She interest rates in Australia than has anything else. The real reason for the high interest rates so recently prevailing was that the banks found it impossible to grant further advances without increasing their deposits. Every time a bank opens its heart .and grants an advance with a fair .amount of liberality, the net result is an increase in deposits. That must be so, .because, the moment an individual is given the right to draw money against his current account on security  furnished  by him he pays that money out, and, as a consequence, the bank gets au increase on the 'deposit side. It is a recognized maxim of ordinary banking that .the cash reserves shall always bear a 'reasonable relation to the amount of deposits. A little while ago the bank3 found that they were unable to allow their deposits to increase, because they could get no further cash, and the only course left open to them wau to raise their interest rates to the men who wanted to borrow, and thus reduce to the lowest possible point the demands upon them for money. As a consequence, the interest rates suddenly increased, and incidentally the value of bonds in Australia became relatively low. This, of course, was before the release of gold either by Britain or by the Commonwealth. The moment that the exchange position, as between New York and London, reached a point at which the banks could bring gold into Australia more cheaply than they could bring .out money from London in any other way, they promptly started to import gold. The result has been a very large increase in the amount of cash reserves held by them, and, consequently, the relation of those cash reserves to deposits having become more favorable, we are getting a gradual fall in the interest rates. 
And the honorable senator can claim most of the credit for it. 

 Senator GREENE. I do not say that ; and I make the statement I have made with a great deal of hesitation, because one cannot speak with absolute definiteness about any of these things. In a country like Australia, whose business is growing by leaps and bounds - we have only to look at the aggregate banking returns and the ordinary statistics of production and manufacture to see that we have a constantly growing volume of business - it is evident, to my mind, that we require fresh banking resources year by year. For good or ill, this Parliament, a considerable time ago, decided to prevent the banks from using their own currency, and substituted in its place what we call a national currency. When the bill providing for that change was .before another place, I had the honour of sitting in that chamber, and I pointed out that the proposal must result in a rigid form of banking, which is unsuited to- the real development of Australia. If vb go abroad to borrow, it is quite conceivable that &amp; certain amount of the money - I do not by any means say tha whole of it - may come into Australia in the form of gold, adding further to the cash reserves of the banks, and in all probability assisting further to ease the whole financial position in Australia. It must certainly ease the position infinitely more than it would be possible  to  ease it by an internal loan, and consequently an external loan, may be far more beneficial to the finance interests of Australia than an internal loan, which means dipping into the common pool from which the whole of the enterprises of Australia, have to be supplied. I warmly congratulate the Government  on  what it is doing in this connexion. 'It is decidedly wise in seeking for power to go outside Australia, at the present time, to supply some of our financial requirements. 
If we borrowed from America, does the honorable senator contend that we should have to obtain the money by way of goods from that country? 
.- I was surprised to hear the remarks of  Senator Needham  with regard to internal borrowing. The high rate of interest charged for mortgage loans and advances for new industries has done more than anything else to retard "the development of Australia.  Senator Greene  made certain reference to the fact that the action taken by Parliament when the Commonwealth Bank Bill was under discussion last session had, to a degree, been instrumental in bringing about an amelioration of financial conditions in Australia. Although I may be adopting a somewhat unusual course, I desire to state publicly that, in my opinion, the country is under a deep debt of obligation to  Senator Greene  for the attitude he adopted when that bill was under discussion.. I had an opportunity, in Sydney a few weeks ago, of discussing this matter with a gentleman who is very largely interested financially in the wool industry, and who told me that the determined attitude adopted, by  Senator Greene  at that time, in face of partial hostility on the part of the Notes Issue Board, the hostility of the Treasury" officials, and the luke-warm attitude of the Treasurer himself, had done much towards bringing about a reduction in the interest rate of Australia. I rose merely to say that the people should be reminded of what the honorable senator did on that occasion. 

 Senator GRANT (New South Wales) [11.581.- I agree entirely with the idea that the states should borrow through the Commonwealth, for the scramble that has disgraced the borrowing operations of Governments and semi-public bodies in Australia has resulted in lenders obtaining higher rates for their money than they would otherwise have secured. 'The regulation - I might almost say the socialization - of borrowing has consequently had a favorable effect. No indication has been given by the Government as to the total sum that the states will require from now until the end of the year; but one of the objects of the bill is to complete all necessary borrowing arrangements in good time, so that in December next, when war loans, aggregating £68,000.000, fall due, the Commonwealth Government will have a clear field in which to operate. That is a commendable proceeding, if the present system of renewing loans is to be adhered to. Some honorable senators who have preceded me have commented favorably on the suggestion that the American money market should be approached. I do nol. know why they have done so. Not very long ago, when one of the State Governments borrowed money in New York, it was subjected to severe condemnation by many of those behind the Government. Yet this Government, apparently, is thinking of doing the same thing. There is nothing in the bill to prevent it from doing, so, and we know that our Napoleon of finance, who has just spoken, looks very favorably upon the suggestion. He told us something that we already knew, namely, that the vaults of the American treasury are filled to the bursting-point with gold, which, so far as I am aware, is earning no interest. Clearly, it' would suit the American Government to lend, at it fair rate of interest, substantial sums of money to the Australian Governments. It seems to me that the financial centre of the world is gradually moving from London to New York. 
The Government would be well advised, in my opinion., to make available more Commonwealth Bank notes. At present notes of a face' value oF £56,000,000 have been issued. Only half of these are in circulation. Why should not some of the other half, now in the hands of the Commonwealth Bank, be made available to the public?. The notes have behind them the credit of the Commonwealth, and I can see no reason for not issuing a few million more of them to the. public. 
I do not know much about Russia or Germany. I do not pay much attention to those countries. I find that it takes rae all my time to keep myself properly informed of affairs that are of importance to Australia. I shed no tears when the peasants of Russia took possession of the land of Russia without paying for it; nor did I. shed any tears over the fate of ihe czar and his connexions. I do not for a moment profess to know what- will be the ultimate result of the German Government's action in increasing the paper currency of that country to such an extent that it is now practically worthless. I do not suggest that we should do anything of the kind in Australia. I feel obliged, however, to remind some honorable senators opposite, who bitterly opposed the establishment of the Commonwealth notes issue, that immediately the bill was passed the Fisher .Government increased the notes in circulation by about £16,000,000. That action' was not followed bv the dire results prophesied by our alleged Napoleon of finance. 
That is so. From the profits of the notes issue and half the profits of the Commonwealth Bank, we are able to pay £250,000  annually  oil our national debt. That is one of the good results that followed the action of the Fisher Government in establishing the Commonwealth Bank and the. notes issue. Another is that we are not paving intereston the £16,000,000 worth of ' notes which the Government issued, but the various Governments and public bodies which have borrowed that money from us are paying us interest on them. It is proposed now to continue the old, bad. system of borrowing money in London. I. protest against it, for it will mean that the interest on such loans will go out of Australia. We already pay about £20,000,000 in interest to London money-lenders, on account of the loans we have raised during the war. 
We were told during the currency of the war that it was impossible to borrow money in Australia. 
We learn from experience. During the first visit of the American Fleet to Australia, our people were at their wit's end to know how to amuse the sailors. One man, who, I suppose, was more imaginative than the rest, organized a boxing contest, and discovered that the American sailors were highly pleased with that amusement. He also discovered that the sport appealed to the Australian people, and boxing contests have been very popular in this country ever since. Our war experience compelled us to exploit every possible field for raising money, and welearned from it that there was an abundance of money available in Australia. We dipped our hands into the " mythical pool " that has been referred to, and found that we could get all that we required. It is strange that while some honorable senators opposite boom, boast about, and bolster up our great and glorious policy of national protection, they favour going abroad to borrow money which can be secured in Australia. 
I believe in straightout land- values taxation. 
 The honorable senator must confine himself to the bill. 
The honorable senator must not allow himself to be led away by interjections. 
I wish to say a few words in commendation of the decision of the Government to borrow abroad for the immediate requirements of the states and the Commonwealth. I was surprised to hear it suggested that because there is a large sum to the credit of depositors in the Commonwealth Savings Bank and on fixed deposit with the cheque-paying banks, the financial needs of the Commonwealth and states should be met by loans raised in Australia. Government internal borrowings in recent years have been on such a scale as to seriously retard the development of primary production. 
It is a fact that, if we raise in Australia all the money necessary for Commonwealth and state activities, we deplete the market of money urgently required for rural development. At present it is almost impossible to get mortgages renewed by Australian banks, even on the very best security. 
I differ from the honorable senator. The banks are out to do business, but they have never loaned money on real estate without an ample margin. That margin is still there, but the money is not available. 
Surely the honorable senator does not suggest that there is a combine of associated banks for the purpose of restricting profitable business? 
The object of the banks is to make as much money as possible by lending on ample security at as high a rate of interest as can be obtained to ensure reasonable dividends for their shareholders. If, as the honorable senator suggests, there is a combine of associated banks, business would be restricted. If people engaged in commerce agreed to tighten up their purse strings, what would become of their profits ? It is gratifying to know that, for a period at all events, the Government will refrain from internal borrowing. This policy should lead to a revival in business and ensure the more rapid development of our agricultural and pastoral industries. 
Not necessarily. 
During the war internal borrowing was essential, brit thatperiod is passed. 
Because experience has shown that the development of a country proceeds more rapidly from the introduction of outside capital. When I was speaking on the Address-in-Reply I referred to the generally expressed desire throughout Australia by those who need money for the development of the Commonwealth, that internal borrowing should cease for a while in order to give an impetus to developmental schemes. For this reason I heartily support the second reading of the bill. 
I am glad to learn from the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  that the Government of New South Wales which hitherto has stood out of the Loan Council is- likely to fall into line with the other states, because if we are to secure the best, terms, it is essential that there should be only one borrowing authority for Australia. I hoped that  Senator Greene  would explain how Australia is likely to benefit by the rais ing of foreign loans, because, as we all know, we never get the actual cash. If we borrow. say, £10,000,000 or £20,000.000 'abroad, we receive, not the money, but £10,000,000 or £20,000,000 worth of imports. To that extent we prejudice the development of our secondary industries in Australia. When Ave borrow money within the Commonwealth the interest- payments go into the pockets of our own people. Prior to the war it was thought to be impossible to borrow money in Australia, but when the need arose we borrowed approximately £270,000,000 against an actual gold or bullion holding of £53,000,000. Actually we borrowed credit, and it is reasonable to expect that we could do so again. As the  per capita  wealth of Australia is considerably more than that of England we should not approach the Mother Country for money required for Commonwealth or state purposes. When the Theodore Government of Queensland floated a loan in the United States of America the leading newspapers of the Commonwealth suggested that the State Government was disloyal to Great Britain, but when a Nationalist Government is negotiating for  American  money the policy is quite right. It would appear, then, that when things are different they are not the same! 
I understand that the proposal is to approach the United States of America market. At all events the  Age  -makes this statement. 
But the  Age  stands behind this Government, and it was the  Age  which so- strongly criticized the action of the Theodore Government.  Senator Greene  and other honorable senators who have had considerable financial experience, claim that when we borrow abroad we tire not doing an injustice to Australian industries. On the one hand we advocate protection, and on the other borrow abroad to such a large: extent that we ave, in effect, adopting a freetrade policy. As a result of our borrowing overseas, large quantities of goods are imported, and these enter into competition with similar commodities locally produced. Australian importers do not care to what extent we borrow abroad, because it suits their purpose, but Australian manufacturers are strongly in favour of local borrowing, as such a policy, is of assistance to them. Those engaged in manufacturing industries in Australia have a thorough knowledge of finance, and should be as competent to express a reliable opinion as is  Senator Greene.  It is claimed by eminent authorities that if we borrow abroad to any extent large quantities of goods must be imported into Australia, because payment is not made in cash, but in kind. So far as I have been able to study the opinions of competent, financial authorities there was only one occasion on which the actual cash entered Australia. If the present policy is to be continued, it is difficult to understand how our Australian industries which we axe endeavouring to foster can successfully continue. If during the war we could borrow locally sufficient  to meet the requirements of the Commonwealth and state governments, surely in times of peace we should be able to do so. 
The. honorable senator' is in favour of borrowing abroad in this instance. 
The situation today differs very little from what it was during the period to which I have referred.  Senator Greene  is always in favour of Australian loans being raised abroad. 
Then, what did the honorable senator mean?  "Senator Greene.  - At the moment the Australian pool needs replenishing. 
There has always been a similar complaint. During the war period we could have borrowed overseas had we desired. But we relied on our own. resources, and we should do 30 in this instance. As I have stated, approximately £270,000,000 was raised in Australia when our reserves amounted to only £53,000,000. "We were then borrowing on our credit, and the credit of Australia is, I believe, as good to-day as it was then. We could easily raise the amount required in Australia without in any way making an undue demand on  the  pool as suggested by  Senator Greene.  As a protectionist, I am in favour of money being raised in Australia, as by so doing we are assisting in the support of our Australian industries. 
One of the principal weaknesses of the members of the Labour party is their inability to understand the intricacies of finance.  Senator Hoare  is a protectionist and  Senator Grant  is a freetrader, but both of these honorable senators are opposed to money being borrowed, outside Australia. If the money the states require in this instance cannot be profitably obtained in the Commonwealth a loan will have to be floated either in Great Britain or in America. The amount which can be raised within the Commonwealth is naturally limited, and if better terms can be obtained in the countries I have mentioned we should take advantage of them. Certain importations may follow; but it must be remembered that we do not produce all we require. To endeavour to raise too much capital in the Commonwealth may result in capital being withdrawn from industry, and thus retard commercial expansion. It' has always been the practice to raise money in Great Britain whenever practicable, because, generally speaking, the rate of interest has been lower and the conditions generally more acceptable. I am in favour of borrowing in Australia when that can be advantageously done. 
Perhaps we have borrowed up to a reasonable limit. 
If wo had not gone outside Australia in the past to borrow, what would our position have been? 
No sane person would make such a suggestion. The policy supported by honorable senators opposite is so crude that it is a danger to Australia. 
During that time Australia was particularly prosperous. 
Yes. The money raised by the Fisher Government in the form of land and income taxation gave them plenty of money to spend. The arguments of honorable senators opposite will not bear analysis, and they know from experience that if money is notavailable . in Australia it must be obtained elsewhere. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Agreements with states). 
, - The clause provides that the Treasurer of the Commonwealth may enter into an agreement with the Treasurer of any state concerning the terms and conditions upon which loans may be made to a state. Can the Minister  (Senator Pearce),  on behalf of the states, give an assurance that whatever money is borrowed under this act either in Australia or elsewhere will be spent on reproductive works. 
Does the Loan Council take the necessary steps to ensure that bodies such as the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works or the Sydney City Council cannot go on the loan market without the consent of the State Government ? 

 Senator PEARCE  (Western Australia - Minister for Home and Territories) f 12.44], - We must assume that the states are borrowing for reproductive works, as 98 per cent, of the loan moneys raised are for that purpose. Such loans have to run the gauntlet of the state Parliaments. I understand that at the last meeting of the Loan Council it was agreed that it was desirable that, as far as possible, the states should arrange that such bodies as the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works and the Sydney City Council should conduct their loan negotiations through the Loan Council. 
 Senator Needham  has spoken about state expenditure on reproductive works. The term "reproductive" is very indefinite. For instance, the Queensland Government has been spending money on what it describes as reproductive works, and yet those works have turned out to be total failures. Would  Senator Needham  have the Commonwealth Government accept the responsibility  of  raising money on behalf of the whole of Australia and handing it over  to  the states for them to do what they like with it? Surely he  must  see that the Commonwealth has  no  guarantee whatever that the money will be spent  on  works which are really  reproductive.  The Queensland Government lost thousands of pounds on "tuppennyha'penny" experiments. It  ran  butchers' shops, and took up cattle stations. Any one who knows anything about Australia knows what a risky proposition a cattle station is. It lost thousands of pounds on ventures of this nature. Was that reproductive expenditure ? 
Yes; and the people are paying a big price for having a Labour Government. The only reproductive undertaking of the Queensland Government has been its insurance scheme, but that, of course, is a monopoly. 
 Senator Reid's  remarks might very well have been made on the second-reading debate, yet the honorable senator agreed to the second reading of the bill without voicing any complaint about the matters to which he has just referred. He asked me to define the word "reproductive," and, Scotch like, furnished his own reply, and at the same time decried his own state of Queensland and his own electors. He has endeavoured to introduce into the consideration of this bill a party aspect which was absent until he addressed the . chamber'. He has told us that all the money borrowed by the Queensland Government for works has proved a failure. 
I do not wish to misquote the honorable senator, but his speech was certainly an attack on the present government of the state, thus giving this debate a party political aspect. He has not given one proof that money borrowed by the present Queensland Government for reproductive works has not been so used. 

 -(Senator Newland). - I must ask the honorable senator not to continue on those lines. 
I have given the honorable senator the right to reply. 
I am not giving the honorable senator any privilege, nor shall I do so. I now ask him to confine his remarks to the clause. 
It is left to the discretion of the states to say for what purpose loan moneys may be used,  and  Senator Reid  should not have attempted to give the chamber a lecture on the shortcomings of the Queensland Labour Government. 
Needham, It is not dealt with in the clause under consideration. 
That is just a point I was about to make. I think you should have called  Senator Reid  to order. 
.- If I thought that the Commonwealth, in addition to acting as borrowing agent for the states was to act as a censor as' to the direction in which . the money borrowed should be expended, I should have opposed, not only this clause, but also the second reading. The spending of money by the states, whether it be on reproductive or unreproductive works, or upon works said to be reproductive but eventually turning out to be unreproductive, is not a matter for the Commonwealth. In these circumstances, while  I  acquit the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  of the charge that he has any desire to delay the bill, on his own statement it certainly does appear to me that he is not hastening its progress by raising an irrelevant point. 
I am referring to the question asked by  Senator Needham  whether the purposes for which these loans were to be raised by the states were reproductive or not. That has nothing to do with the Commonwealth, but is left entirely, as it should be, to the good sense, or otherwise, of the states which are borrowing. In these circumstances, I do not think the remarks should have been made which led subsequently to the impassioned utterance, although it was out of order, of  Senator Reid.  I do not know whether any definite statement has been made as to where this money is to be borrowed. I disagree with the views expressed by some honorable senators as to borrowing in Australia unless the circumstances of the financial markets of the world relating to exchange and other matters render it necessary to do so. Surely honorable senators opposite can see what short-sighted policy it is to lock up our finances by banding over to the government sums which could very well be used for development by private enterprise, and probably with more discretion. Other things being equal, it will always pay Australia to borrow outside rather than inside. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 3 to 8 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment ; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 

 Sitting suspended from 1 to2 p.m. 

I desire to join in the congratulations extended to the Minister for Home and Territories  (Senator Pearce)  onthe manner in which the bill was introduced. Whether one agrees or disagrees with the provisions of the measure, one is bound to say that much thought must have been devoted to the preparation of the speech, since it was highly informative, and gave evidence of extensive knowledge and research. I may also say that the speech by  Senator Guthrie  was full of information of a character that is not often supplied in regard to this part of Australia. One class of people paints the country in too rosy colours, while certain critics never cease decrying it. The truth, however, lies between the two opinions. It was interesting to hear  Senator Guthrie's  reference to the pioneers who devoted their wealth and energy in the early days to laying the foundations of settlement in the out-back parts of Australia. I join with the honorable senator in his expression of appreciation of the services of the men who blazed the track for later generations.  His  remarks, however, applied particularly to the north-eastern portion of the area under consideration, that is, the Barkly Tablelands, and the north-western portion of  Queensland. Although his observations had forcible application to that part of the country, I propose to say something about a part of North Australia which is perhaps not so well known as the northeastern portion. At different times I have endeavoured to give the Senate the benefit of what little information I have been able to glean concerning our empty north, and I was most interested yesterday to hear  Senator Kingsmill  furnish some particulars regarding the Western Australian portion of it. I have been told by people who know that country that it is quite as valuable as the farfamed Barkly Tablelands, having splendid natural harbours, an abundance of permanent water, and good rivers.  Senator Lynch  referred to the information obtained from Messrs. Laurie and Wickham. I recognize that it is only by conversing with men of that type that people who have been unable to visit the country can obtain reliable information concerning it. 
I quite agree with the honorable senator. I met  Mr. Laurie  at Port Darwin and  Mr. Wickham  at Hatch's Creek. Although a certain amount of sworn evidence may be taken from witnesses of that type, it is generally when one sits around the camp fire that the most useful information is to be gleaned. Another staunch advocate of the development of Northern Australia was  Mr. Simpson  Newland, who died in Adelaide recently. For over 30 years the main hope of his life was to see the north-south railway constructed; but time has been too swift for him, and the actions of governments have been too slow. He was responsible for the introduction of a bill in the South Australian Parliament in 1902 for the construction of a land-grant railway to open up Central and Northern Australia. Whatever opinions we may bold regarding the development of a country by means of such a railway, it is safe to say that if that railway had been built, Central Australia would have had a large and prosperous population to-day, and the problem now under consideration would not have confronted this Parliament.  Mr. Newland,  who was reared near the mouth of the river Murray, had been a rover from youth. As a young man he travelled from Sydney to the River Darling with cattle and sheep. In 1887 he made a trip from 
Adelaide to Barrow Creek, which was a risky undertaking in those days. I desire to 7)lace on record a paragraph or two from the report he wrote describing his trip, and I ask  Senator Guthrie  to take note of this - 
Let us examine what even partially stocking some of the country beyond the 26th parallel means to South Australia. For example, take a belt- of it 300 miles wide along the telegraph line from Charlotte Waters to about Barrow Creek, say 400 miles by 200, some 80.000 square miles of country! carrying 50 sheep to the mile.. 4.000,000 head, a. low estimate, giving 5 lb. of wool worth Gd. pe'r lb., or 2s. 6d. per sheep, .equalling £500.000. 
Yes. The report continues - 
Add to this 400,000 sheep for sale annually at 5s. per head- £100,000. A total of £000,000 of exports from 80,000 miles of country out of over 300,000 miles probably as well adapted for stock as the strip I have named. It must be recollected, too, that much of the land along the telegraph line will support 100 sheep to the mile, just double the estimate I havegiven. Of course, some of it is better adapted to cattle, but for the convenience of calculation I have confined myself to  sheep.  Then there is an enormous extent of country to the north of Barrow Creek certainly suitable- for cattle, if not for sheep; some of which is being stocked now. 
If the report had been written last week it would have been as true a description of the country as it was in 1887. Another paragraph reads - 
But leaving- the whole of the country beyond Barrow Creek out of our calculations, what does the opening up and stocking of the immense tract to the south of it mean to us? At the moderate estimate given for a portion of it, the amount of wool would be 80,000,000 lb., having a money value of £2,000,000, nearly double the quantity we now produce, to say nothing of the annual surplus from .10,000,000 sheep, which mav -be roughly reckoned at another &lt;£ 1,000,000. 
This most valuable report concludes as follows : - 
There is every reason to believe that near the heavier rainfall of the tropics water will be found at less depth and of purer quality. And we may depend upon it, there it will yet be found, in some of the most reliable country for stock in the colony. I have said little about breeding horses. ' That they will thrive has been demonstrated beyond question. Indeed, that is saying -but little, as we know that the horse of the north is unsurpassed for strength, size, and endurance. It is probable that this will be recognized in the course of a few years, and horses bred in the north command the highest prices, not only in the east, 'but in the markets of the whole world. As in the broad pastures of the far north the horse is already superior of his kind, so can cattle and sheep be raised superior of their kind, or second to none in any land. That the country is subject to droughts is a fact that cannot be overlooked. All saltbush country, wherever situated, is so; but as a compensation for that, it is the healthiest for stock of any known in the world. 
The country is precisely the same now as it was then, with perhaps this difference, that the rabbits of recent years have done a tremendous amount of damage, and some parts of it have been overstocked. Given proper facilities and proper supervision, however, the more southerly portions of the Northern Territory, whilst perhaps not as productive as some of thenorthern portions, may be made a valuable asset to Australia. 
This is a most important bill. As the Minister, in introducing it, said, it will have a vital bearing on the development of Central Australia. We know that the centre of a country is always the most difficult part to develop. The produce grown there has to be hauled for great distances; and, altogether, it is much more unfavorably situated for developmental purposes than country next the seaboard. But Australia is not the only country that has had to overcome serious obstacles to provide interior transport facilities. Many other countries have done it successfully. As a matter of fact, the Northern Territory has many advantages over someother -parts of the world. It is well known that in some of the remote parts of America, for instance, severe climatic conditions in certain seasons of the year greatly handicap developmental operations. In the Northern Territory we have very little trouble of that description beyond the periodical monsoons.  Floods  may occur in some parts for two or three weeks at a stretch, but they are not nearly so serious as the cyclonic disturbances that occur in other countries: Only a few weeks ago, one of the most thickly populated parts of New' South Wales was isolated by floods; but not a great deal of trouble was caused thereby. It is possible that, if the conditions that prevailed at Queanbeyan and  Mossvale  were prevalent in the Northern Territory, we would think that we had very great difficulties to overcome; but it is not so. A good deal of the blame for the non-development of the Territory has been attached to the Government. 
I feel that even in our party condemnation of governments, we ought to remember that, for almost half of the time that the Commonwealth has had control of the Territory, the governments in power have been obliged to devote practically the whole of their attention to a far greater problem, which confronted not only Australia, but the Empire as well. If there  is one state which has more right than another to display impatience at the lack of development in the Territory, it is South Australia. My own patience has been almost exhausted at times; but I have always endeavoured to stress the point that, since the Territory was taken over by the Commonwealth, hardly any of the governments that have been in office have had an unhindered opportunity to develop it. But it is high time that something was done. I am glad that this bill has been introduced, notwithstanding that I do not altogether approve of its provisions, for the reason that it indicates the desire of the Government to do something. It has been said that the development of the Territory has been delayed on account of the fact that the administration has been carried on so largely from Melbourne. There is a good deal of truth in that statement. In passing, may I say that we ought not to take Darwin too greatly into our consideration in dealing with this subject, for, after all, Darwin is an insignificant part of the Territory. The various administrators of the Territory have been faced with a tremendous task, and they have been greatly hindered by their lack of power. On the other hand, the various governments have been faced with the almost impossible task of finding in Australia a man with the requisite experience and necessary knowledge to administer the Territory properly. I do not propose to say whether, in my opinion, we have had in the past the right men as administrators. The fact I am concerned with is that the Territory has not been developed. I dare say that if we were to apportion the blame equally between the administrators and the governments., we should be doing substantial justice to all parties. In the past, whenever an administrator has desired to spend money on a necessary work, he has had to send to Melbourne for approval of the proposal. I do not expect that we shall ever find an administrator who is thoroughly qualified to discharge all the important duties that will devolve upon him ; but be should be allowed to surround himself with a sufficient number of competent officers, and he should be given a much freer hand than our Northern Territory administrators have had in the past. 
Quite a number of experiments have been made with the object of developing the Territory. I remember very well one Minister who cut up portion of the tropical belt of land north of the Katherine River, and put men on it to carry on farming operations. No doubt, he did what he thought was wise; but to many people his action was a palpable mistake from the very beginning. If there is one part of Australia more than another which should be settled on the advice of experts it is the Northern Territory. Even experienced agriculturists from the southern states would find the utmost difficulty in accommodating themselves to the circumstances and climate of the Territory; yet this Minister rushed men there who were not only totally ignorant of its conditions, but had no idea whatever of farming. 
That is so. I recollect one man in particular who was an engine-driver. I doubt if he had ever in his life grown anything more difficult to raise than a cabbage. A more unsuitable man to send to a tropical climate to carry on agricultural operations could not have been found anywhere. Failure stared him in the face before he left Tasmania. One farmer who went from South Australia did well. South Australia has more sympathy than any other state with the Northern Territory. This man made a considerable- success, of his Katherine River farm. I  am not  sure whether he is still there. 
Is the honorable senator referring to  Mr. Milton? 
He left there last year. 
It has been said that wheat cannot be grown in the Territory ; but I have seen a very fair crop growing there. I do not say for a moment that it will be either necessary or advisable for decades to come to grow wheat there; but it can be done. 
The figures quoted by the Minister in relation to the debt of the Northern Territory when it was taken over by the Commonwealth are somewhat alarming until they are analysed.  Senator Pearce  stated that the debt was £3,931,086. This appears to be a very considerable sum, but actually it does not represent 3d. per acre of the area taken over, 355,116,800 acres, and I suggest that 3d. an acre is not a very heavy burden upon any land. The debt atthe end of 1923-4, including all government expenditure and accumulated deficits, amounted to £8,024,129, or less than 6d. an acre of the total area ; but in all fairness we should make a deduction on account of the assets such as railways, wharfs, and other public works. These represent a substantial sum which, if taken into account, would bring the total debt at the end of last year down to about 4d. an acre. I am satisfied that if land in any other continent were available at 4d. an acre quite a large number of people would go after it. 
The improvement of transport facilities has been mentioned as an important feature in any developmental scheme. One has only to see the primitive homes which settlers have to live in to realize how great are their difficulties. In most cases those men  who,  if they chose to reside in a suburb of any of our capital cities, would be living in a home costing from £3,000 to £5,000, have to take an axe and cut down in the bush the material for their dwellings in the Northern Territory, for the simple reason that they cannot afford to pay freight on better building material. Naturally men living under such primitive conditions are not very well satisfied. The Minister emphasized the value of good roads in the Northern Territory. Roads are necessary, but roads alone will not settle the traffic problem of the Northern Territory. It would be impossible to put down macadamized roads, because traffic in the long dry spells would cut them up badly, and in the wet season they would be washed out,  so that fresh tracks would have to be made. Whilst it is necessary to construct roads across creeks, I do not believe that very much will be done by the building of roads for general traffic, because for many years the bulk of the traffic in the Northern Territory will reach the railway on the hoof. Railways are more essential than roads for the opening up of the Territory. Nothing was said by the Minister about projected railways. It would have been informative had  Senator Pearce  given some indication of the intentions of the Government with regard to any railways contemplated. South Australia is anxious to know when the north-south line is to be constructed, and whilst in this debate I may not deal at length with railway policy, the construction of railways has such an important bearing on the development of the Territory that I should be permitted- to say a word or two on the subject. 
I do not intend to oppose the bill, though it is not altogether to my liking. I doubt if it is necessary or advisable to take in such a large area of country as is contemplated. I question whether Queensland or Western Australia will part with any territory. It is true that in both states there is a large area of unoccupied land, and that the states concerned have not a great deal of money available for developmental work, but only to-day the Senate passed a measure authorizing the Commonwealth Government to raise money for state developmental and other purposes. There is nothing to prevent Queensland or Western Australia from making application for money to carry out such undertakings, and encourage the settlement of their outback country. The development of Central Australia is quite a different problem. That portion of Australia is entirely under the control of the Commonwealth, and it is the duty of the Government to push on with the work. It has been said, of course, that the centre of Australia is too far removed from the seaports for satisfactory development Portions of Queensland and Western Australia are in the same position. I doubt if the time has come for the creation of a new state in the Northern Territory. 
By criticizing the measure I trust. I arn not giving' the Minister the impression that I am anxious to retard the progress of the Northern Territory. Far from it. My "experience, since I have been in the Federal Parliament, is that  Senator Pearce  has given more thought to Northern Territory problems, and appears to understand them better than any Minister who has preceded bini. It is merely a matter of differing opinions, as we are both anxious to do that which  will be to the advantage of the Commonwealth as a whole. Reference has been made to the suggestion of the ex-Premier of Queensland  (Mr. Theodore),  who some time ago submitted a plan for the development of a portion of 'Northern Australia, but according to the maps which I have perused in connexion with his proposal, his scheme did not extend beyond the Queensland border, except that ir embraced a portion of Western Australia. Under his proposal, it was suggested that £18,000,000 should be spent on railway construction. 
I see there is an agitation to make  a  port at Vanderlin Island near the mouth of the McArthur River, and to build a railway from there on to the tablelands. I feel if this were done it would 'be a great mistake, as in the event of it being built, it would only tap the same country as the north-south line. The tablelands country can be worked from Newcastle Waters, ae the tablelands start right there. There would be a longer haulage on the railway, but to compensate that it would reach one of the best harbours in Australia - Darwin - and is on a main shipping route, whereas Vanderlin Island is some G00 miles off the main shipping route, and it never could he made a first class port. To get to it goods would have to be taken in barges some 30 miles down the McArthur River and 30 miles in the open sea. However, I do not suppose when it is threshed out anything will come of it. 
Another correspondent writes - 
The projected harbour and railway scheme at the McArthur or any other place along the Gulf of Carpentaria, would simply be money wasted. Country along the Gulf coast is mostly all low-lying salt marsh plains. Saltwater arms and mangroves extend miles inland from coast. Shore line is principally shallow . water; mud flats extended out for miles into the sea.  Around some of the  Sir Edward  Pellew group of islands a good depth of water exists. Most of the islands consist of 3our. worthless land. Only boats of a draught of, say, 8 or 9 feet can enter McArthur River at high water and go up about 12 miles to a place named Carringtons Landing. At low water boats of a draught, of 9 feet cannot reach within 12 miles from mouth of McArthur. I lived ten years at Borroloola and ten years at Leichardt Bar, Roper River. Whoever recommends harbour and railway scheme at any point along the Gulf of Carpentaria line of coast are not studying the future interest of the Northern Territory, or the Commonwealth of Australia. . . 
That gentleman's views in regard to the construction of harbour facilities on the McArthur River coincide with those of others. I desire now to quote from the report of the sectional committee of the  Public Works Committee, of which I was a member, which was presented to the Prime Minister and laid before both Houses of Parliament three years ago. In addition to railway construction, the committee dealt with road construction, the provision of telephone facilities, the sinking of wells and bores, and the condition of the aborigines, &amp;c. The recommendations of the sectional committee should, I think, be placed on record, as many of them are in accord with the Government's most recent proposals. The recommendations of the committee were - 
That a definite progressive developmental policy, extending over a period of at least 20 years, should  be  at once entered upon. A thoroughly competent water conservation engineer, a practical  irrigationist,  and a qualified  land chemist should be sent  to  make a thorough inspection of the land adjacent  to  the principal rivers. Sites for dams should be selected contiguous  to  suitable irrigation areas, of which there arc many. An area of from 50,000  to  100,000 acres should bc offered for lengthy lease  at  a peppercorn rental  to  any individual or company who would undertake  to  comply with the provisions of a carefully thought-out scheme for constructing dams, clearing land, building homes, providing canning factories, butter and bacon-curing factories, &amp;c. These to be conducted co-operatively, for dealing with such produce as dairying, fruit, cotton, hemp, tobacco-growing, pig and goat raising, and such other purposes as may be advised. Fruit and vegetables are already being successfully grown on the Adelaide River by  a  private individual. Better and regular shipping facilities should be provided with the east, where  a  ready and unlimited market can be found for the products of Northern Australia. When one settlement is successfully started others will quickly follow. 
Making due allowance for the fact that its visit was made after an exceptionally good season, the sectional committee is of opinion that the nature of the country visited is sufficiently good to support a. very much larger population than it carries at present. Members were especially impressed with the climate,  soil,  grass, and water possibilities in the vicinity of the Macdonnell Ranges and Alice Springs. While the country about Daly Waters is not so good, the locality offers possibilities for future settlement if certain water improvements are effected. The northern  extension  also would bring tho railway a stage nearer to the Victoria River country, which at present carries immense herds of cattle, and could be further developed to a considerable extent. The country between Newcastle Waters and Camooweal, known as tho Barkly Tablelands, with  i1»  vast store of underground water, its black soil plains, and constant growth of Mitchell grass,  is  also capable  of  great development, as it is practically the same class of country  as  that within tho Queensland border a few miles away, which boasts such stations as Walgra, Headingly Carandotta, &amp;c, which carry more sheep and cattle to the square mile than any other country passed through. Owing to the distance from civilization, and the difficulty nf obtaining medical attendance in case of illness, however, it is probable that many desirable settlers refrain from taking up land in the Northern Territory, and this state of affairs will continue until the isolation' is to some extent broken down. The greatest factor in breaking down this isolation would be railway communication, and the sectional committee thinks that  it,  is generally recognized that no material progress can be looked for in the Northern Territory until certain railway development is undertaken. 
The Minister has said that one of the administrators of the Territory will be located at Alice Springs. I would rather see the administration of the whole of the Territory conducted from Alice Springs, and not from Darwin. 
The Minister  (Senator Pearce)  made a good point the other day when he compared the Murray Waters scheme with the proposal in the bill, which, he said, provided for continuity of administration in the Northern Territory, no matter what party might be in control in the Federal 
Parliament. Every one will support any attempt to secure continuity of administration in any part of Australia. Particularly do we need it in the Northern Territory for ac least 20 or 40 years. The period cannot be too long. But when we have said this, the comparison between the administration of the Territory by a commission and the carrying out of the Murray Waters scheme by commissioner? ends. The Murray Waters scheme provides for the appointment of a commission of experts to construct locks and weirs. To the governments of the respective states is left the task of settling people on the land for which water is provided by the commission. In the case of the Northern Territory, in addition to the task of building roads and bridges, and recommending railways and all that sort of thing, the commissioners will also be responsible for settling people on the land, and for telling them what sort of produce to grow, and how to grow it. There are very few in Australia who know anything about tropical cultivation. Generally speaking, the commissioners will have to take control of all the people in the Territory They will require to possess qualifications quite different from those which have been so well displayed by the commissioners who are responsible for carrying out the Murray Waters scheme. To settle the people on the land in the Territory, and keep them there for the first five years or so, will be one of the commission's hardest problems. 
I disapprove of the proposal that large undertakings, involving the expenditure of over £25,000; should be removed from the purview of the Public Works Committee, which has done excellent- work as the watch-dog over government expenditure, and which Ministers will readily admit, has submitted to Parliament reports of the most valuable character. I think that the committee should be permitted to investigate any proposal of the commission. It has been said that that would be impossible, because of the time taken in travelling to and from North Australia. Let me remind the Senate that one of the most valuable reports drawn up by the committee was presented in 1922, on the subject of railway extension from Mataranka to Daly Waters, and from Oodnadatta to Alice Springs; but, so far, not one spade has been turned in connexion with the works recommended. It is futile to put forward the plea that time is the essence of the contract. The responsible officers at Canberra are experts in their particular- departments, but their railway proposals will be brought under the notice of Parliament through the reports of the Public Works Committee. 
An officer can be brought from Canberra in 24 hours, but two months would elapse before an officer could travel from. Darwin and return. Are the two cases not very different? 
I do not presume even to suggest to the Government whom it should appoint to this commission, but if it is desired to make it a success, officers from the department in Melbourne will not be selected. Engineers will no doubt be required, but so far as the actual administration is concerned the Government should look for men who are familiar with the country and its requirements. I have in mind, for instance, men of the type of Sergeant Stott, who is neither a surveyor, an engineer, nor an office man, but has lived in the Northern Territory all his life, and is as well known there as, and, perhaps, a great deal better than,  Mr Sturt.  Then there is Sergeant Stretton, who was born in the Northern Territory, and is a vigorous and capable young man.. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Reid)  adjourned. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Markets and Migration, whether he is aware that the buffalo fly pest has spread in Western Australia, from Wyndham to Derby? As there is danger that the pest may spread to the cattle in other parts of Australia, will he see that some one is appointed as soon as possible to visit the northern part of Western Australia, and make the investigations that were promised ? 
-I shall bring the honorable member's question under the notice of the Minister. 
Will the PostmasterGeneral make publicly known the exact policy of his department with respect to the sale of postage stamps on commission  1  Honorable members are receiving numerous letters from persons who have been selling stamps on commission, and who cannot learn just what the true position is? 
It is somewhat difficult to lay down a direct policy in this matter, but the honorable member may rest assured that licences will not be cancelled in the case of those selling stamps on commission whom it is in the public interest to retain. Each case must be dealt with on its merits. 
In connexion with the holiday which is to be declared for the reception of the visiting American Fleet, and in view of the fact that the Government is rightly spending a large sum of money to entertain our visitors, will the Prime Minister see that employees in Government dockyards are not deprived of a day's pay for the compulsory holiday proposed ? 
I shall look into the matter. 
I have noticed in the press certain references to the projected visit to Australia of the Duke and Duchess of York. I ask the Prime Minister whether it is possible to arrange that these distinguished visitors, when they come to Australia, shall open the first session of the Federal Parliament at Canberra? 
I have had no official information with regard to the proposed visit. 
Has the Treasurer read the numerous references in the press to the projected Australian loan to be floated in New York ? Can the honorable gentleman give the House any information on the subject? 
The whole matter is at present under consideration. As soon as I have any definite information 1 shall give it to the House. 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Customs if he has noticed a paragraph which appeared in the evening newspaper in Melbourne to tha' effect that Herr Werner Gravel, a young architect, arrived in Melbourne from Germany on a secret commission to superintend the building of a large factory, in which a new kind of German-made steel rivets will be used? If bo, can the Minister give the House any information with regard to the industry proposed to be established, and. say whether the new arrival has imposed any obligation of secrecy on the department? 
So far as the- Department of Trade and Customs is concerned, we have no information relating to the matter, except that contained in the paragraph to which the honourable member has referred. 
Is it a fact that serious financial irregularities in connexion with the Australian Commonwealth Shipping Line have recently been revealed, and that in consequence the Auditor-General has submitted a supplementary report? 
The Auditor-General's report has been made available, and the honorable member knows what it contains, but if he wishes for further information on the subject I must ask him to place his question on the notice-paper. 
I understand that all taxpayers must lodge their returns with the Commissioner of Taxation before the 31st July. For Western Australia that period seems to me altogether too short, and I ask the Treasurer if he will use his influence to get it extended by another month ? 
I shall look into the matter and bring the honorable member's request under the notice of the Commissioner of Taxation. 
In view of the wide spread disappointment at the delay in amending the tariff, and the increase in the importation of goods which are flooding the Australian market, can the Minister for Trade and Customs indicate when he will bring down his tariff proposals ? 
I have already intimated to honorable members that a busy Tariff Board, a busy department, and a busy Minister are all doing their best to prepare the tariff proposals of the Government, so that they may be submitted to the House as early as possible. 
Is the Minister for Trade and Customs in a position to give me the information which he promised, respecting the amount of bounty paid on exported wire netting made in Australia ? 
Not yet. 
Will the Minister for Trade and Customs endeavour to have made available during this week the information for which I asked the week before last relative to the bounty on wire netting and the dumping duties collected on wire netting? 
I shall do my best to make the information available this week, but I should like to point out to my honorable friend that many inquiries made by honorable members necessitate communications with all the states, so that naturally there is sometimes delay in furnishing replies to questions. 
asked the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Referring to the question of the honorable member for Hunter on 19th June last  (Hansard,  page 277), in connexion with the payment of child endowment to transferred taxation officers in Sydney, will the Prime Minister say when such payments may be expected by the officers concerned I 
On the 19th June I informed the honorable member that this subject was under consideration by the Commonwealth law authorities. Advice favorable to the officers has now been received. As the Government of New South Wales has refused to make the payments, it is necessary to make special arrangements to do so, and it is expected that the officers concerned will receive payment within a' week or ten days. 
asked the Minister for Works and Railways,  upon notice - 
Whether the Government is carrying out the promise given by the honorable member for Wimmera  (Mr. P. G. Stewart),  when a member of the Cabinet, to restrict the price of war service homes to soldiers to a maximum of £800, unless arrangements have been made to purchase homes at a higher price by the payment of the deposit equal to the excess cost? 
If not, why not? 
The answers to the honorable member's questions are as follow :. - 
The honorable member has evidently misinterpreted the statement of the  Hon.  P. G. Stewart. The statement referred to, covering the method of assessing the sale price of war service homes built by day labour, was made on 14th August, 1923, and is set out. in  Hansard,  volume 105, page 2700. 
The decision of the Government, as then communicated to the House, has been closely followed. 
asked the Minister for Works and Railways,  upon notice - 
Referring to the question of the honorable  member  for Kalgoorlie, on the 2nd September last, as he agreed - " That, in order to enable the members of the House of Representatives from the different states to intelligently follow some of the speeches, a detailed geographical knowledge of Australia is essential;"' will he endeavour to arrange for the Parliament House now in course of construction at Canberra to bc so adapted that a large map of Australia, of as generous dimensions sis practicable, should be displayed in the chamber? 
Has the Minister kept in mind his promise to consider the practicability of providing a large map of Australia, to be placed in a prominent position in the new chamber? 
The answers to the honorable member's questions arc as follow : - 
It will be suggested to the Federal Capital Commission that arrangements be made to have copies of the latest standard ma]) of Australia displayed in party and other principal rooms in the provisional Parliament building at Canberra. 
The Federal Capital Commission will also lie asked to consider whether the large modelled topographical relief map of Australia, which is now at Wembley Exhibition, might not be placed in a suitable position within Parliament House. 
asked the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Whether any provision has been made, or is likely to be made, to bring under the benefits of the Superannuation Act those employees of the Postmaster-General's Department who have rendered excellent service in the capacity of postmasters and postmistresses in semi-official offices? 
If not, will the Government give early consideration to such claims, seeing that most of these officials have been in the  employ  of the department for  many  years, and are carrying similar responsibilities to those permanently employed? 
No provision has been made to grant the benefits of the Superannuation Act to those persons who have acted as postmasters and postmistresses in semi-official offices. The benefits of that net apply only to permanent employees of the Public Service, and any extension in the direction indicated would jeopardize the solvency of the Superannuation Fund. 
asked the Treasurer,  upon  notice - 
In view of the reply given to the honorable member for Capricornia, on 9th July, that an additional 2s. (id. per week to old-age and invalid pensioners would involve an extra £2,000,000 expenditure, how does he arrive at this amount, seeing that at the end of June, 1024. there were 155,071 pensioners, which, at 2s. (3d. per week, represents £1,011,868? 
The answer to the honorable member's question is as follows : - 
The estimate was based on the position as at 30th June, 1925. At that time there were 102,350 old-age and invalid pensioners. An extra 2s. 6d. per week in respect of each of these would amount to £1,055,314. That experience has shown that an increase in the rate of old-age and invalid pensions is followed by a large increase of new claimants, due to the extra attractiveness of the higher rate. If pensions were increased to £1 per week, a larger number of persons than before would be attracted. In addition, the increase in the income limit which always accompanies an increase in the ra.te of pension would render eligible many people hitherto disqualified. As indicating the effect of the increase from 15s. to 17s. Cd. in September, 1923, it may be stated that thu expenditure for the last financial year was about £1,600,000 more than the expenditure for the year 1922-3. The increased expenditure resulting from the factors mentioned would, it is considered by the pension authorities, bring the total additional cost to the estimate already given, namely £2,000,000 per annum. 
asked the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Whether any instructions have been issued to architects, when inviting tenders for work, to specify that imported timbers be used? 
In view of the " preference to Australian goods where practicable " policy of the Government, will &lt;steps be taken to ensure that Australian timbers be used in all Government work in future? 
The answers to the honorable member's questions are as follow 
No such instructions have been issued. 
It is the policy of the Government to use Australian timbers wherever practicable. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
What is the amount of preference per annum granted respectively by the United Kingdom and the Dominion of Canada on each primary product imported into each country from the Commonwealth of Australia? 
The information is being obtained. 
On the 9th July, the honorable member for Brisbane  (Mr. D. Cameron)  asked the following questions :  - 
Is it a fact that a number of ex-members of the Australian Imperial Force temporarily employed in the Commonwealth Public Service are at present being retrenched in the various departments? 
If so, will he state the reasons necessitating such retrenchment, and indicate how many officers are likely to-be affected? 
I now desire to inform the honorable member that the answers to his questions are as follow :  - 
The services of temporary employees are terminated from time to time when the work upon which they are employed is completed and there is no other work available, or where by re-organization of staffs they become excess. No general retrenchment ofsuch employees is being carried out at the present time, but, owing to the necessity for finding employment for former Commonwealth officers returned from the StateTaxation Departments and other officers who in the process of classification have been found to be in excess of requirements, a number of temporary employees must be displaced. 
See answer to No. 1. No indication can be given of the number likely to be affected. 
On the 8th July, the honorable member for Richmond  (Mr. R. Green)  asked, amongst other questions relating to the Territory of New Guinea - 
What trading stations are held by the various missions? 
The reply to the honorable member's question is as follows: - 
No trading stations, as such, are held by any missions in New Guinea. The Lutheran Mission, however, holds twenty trading licences; other missions hold none. Trading licences enable the holders to trade on long lease and freehold land. 
On the 2nd July, the honorable member also asked, amongst other questions relating to the Territory - 
What was the total cost of the  Franklin on  first arrival in Rabaul? 
How much cargo can the vessel carry? 
What is the total cost of the  Franklin  to date? 
The replies to the honorable member's questions are as follow: - 
£11,249. This includes cost of reconditioning at Sydney, purchase of life-boats and gig, repairs, deck stores, coal, insurance, wages of officers and crew. 
Four tons general cargo, 6 tons ship's stores. 
3.£ 14,389. 
On the 11th June, the honorable member for Eden-Monaro  (Sir Austin Chapman)  was informed, in reply to his question regarding the construction of roads and railways in the Federal Capital Territory, that a further statement on these matters would be furnished at a later date. I now wish to inform him that the Federal Capital Commission has now been advised by the Secretary, New South Wales Government Railways Commissioners, that the department has in mind the provision of railway services to and from Canberra during the time the Parliament is in session there, somewhat as follows :  - 
From Albury. - Special sleeping cars for Federal members, and, also, if warranted, special car for sitting passengers, to be attached to the Up Melbourne express. The special cars will be detached at Goulburn, and almost immediately after arrival there will be taken by special engine through to Canberra, arriving at about 10 a.m. Refreshments obtainable at Goulburn. 
From Sydney. - Special cars (sleeping and sitting accommodation) to be attached to an additional train  ex  Sydney. These will be detached at Goulburn, and after arrival of Up Melbourne express will be connected to the special cars from Albury, and taken straight through to Canberra. 
Return Journey. - Similar arrangements would apply to the return journey, and special cars would connect at Goulburn with the Down Melbourne express, and also with an Up train to Sydney. 
A dining car cannot be put on the train as no such cars are available at present. It is possible that some will have to he constructed within the next two or three years. 
As soon as definite time-tables are available, honorable members will be duly notified. 
The Federal Capital Commission advises that improvements to road communication with Queanbeyan have been effected in order that it may be safe for traffic at all times of the year. 
.- This is one of the most important bills that has ever been debated in this Parliament, for its object is to build up a great nation. "We have been reminded that for some years past this Parliament, with the almost unanimous approval of honorable members, has granted bounties and levied Customs duties to protect various industries; but it would appear that some people, in their anxiety to foster industries, forget that the first and most important thing to establish and protect is a desirable type of citizen. Industries will accomplish nothing, unless we have the right type of manhood, in this country. The people have shown a tendency, recently, to insist upon being protected from a threatened invasion of undesirable aliens. I contend that the character and morale of a people are the primary consideration in the buildingof a nation. We speak of Australia as being " full of possibilities," and as " God's own country," and, while we look forward to accomplishing things as yet unthought of, we harbour men who decry this country, and whose sole aim is to make sound and sane government impossible. Differences of opinion must always exist between different individuals, for what is one man's food is another man's poison. We concede to one another the right, to differ on most subjects, but in the paramount business of nation building we must insist upon unanimity. In that matter we must stand unitedly behind a Government that is working for stability, and must get rid of the class of person who is threatening the home life of this young country. This Parliament has a duty to perform in preventing the immigration of undesirables, and I am therefore astonished that there ehould bc any opposition to the bill. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr. Charlton)  is evidently satisfied with the first portion of the bill, for, in moving - his amendment, he contended that the Government already had the necessary powers to restrict the immigration of undesirables. Paradoxically, however, he seeks to amend the bill in the direction of making it a more effective instrument in restricting alien immigration. This measure is superior in many respects to any other bill of a similar nature that has ever been introduced, as it contains provisions which will further assist in ensuring the safety of the Commonwealth and the protection of the Australian people. I am in hearty accord with the action the Government propose taking in connexion with the deportation of undesirable persons, as under existing legislation it has insufficient power to control those whose sole object is to engender industrial strife and class warfare. In consequence of the actions of such men, whose presence is not desired even by those whose cause they are supposed to advocate, the prosperity of the country has been seriously retarded and industry has, in some cases, become almost stagnant. It is easy for honorable members opposite to jeer at those whose opinions are supported by a large majority of the Australian- people; but they, too, realize that this measure has been framed with the sole object of regulating immigration and of giving the Government the power to deport those who are a menace to Australia. Honorable members opposing the bill are not expressing the opinions of those who sent them to this Parliament to speak on their behalf, but are assisting the communistic  section in Australia, which, fortunately, is very small. What can be the object of those who are supporting the principles of the communists and bolshevists in our midst? They are ignoring the wishes of the masses, and assisting those whose sole  object  is to destroy law and order, which are so necessary in a prosperous and well-governed community. It is gratify- . ing to know that the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  and his colleagues have sufficient courage to introduce such a measure, under which it will be possible to take a careful stock of those in our midst, and deport persons who, after close investigation, are found to be a menace to the Commonwealth. Surely we do not wish our industrial life to be so disturbed that commerce will be practically at a stand-still. The workers themselves are not supporting this small section which is advocating industrial upheaval and general disorder; and it is regrettable that there should be an attempt vo blight the prospects of deserving citizens, and to engender class hatred on the part of a few men. Cannot honorable members on both sides of the chamber display an earnest desire to legislate in the interests of their fellow-men ? In my bumble way, I intend to assist the Government in passing the bill, as I am confident that in doing so I shall be complying with the wishes of the majority of Australian citizens. Although the bill lias been termed drastic by some, its early passage is imperative. Such legislation would not have been introduced if it were not  needed. The Government has accepted the responsibility of introducing the bill, which, if passed, will prove of benefit, not only to the industrial section of the community, but to the whole of the people of this great continent. 
.- I do x;ot think I can add very much to the excellent speech delivered by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr. Charlton),  which has been ably supported by other honorable members on this side of the chamber. I wish, however, to protest against the bill, and particularly some of the vicious provisions it contains. The honorable member for Henty  (Mr. F. Francis)  stated at the conclusion of his speech that the need for the bill was imperative, but he did not prove his assertion. He did not mention any existing condition which could not be dealt with under the laws already in operation. We must go afield to understand the purport of this bill. It is a measure to amend the existing Immigration Act, and its main purpose is to extend the deportation provisions of that act. Because I regard all the other clauses of the bill as but the setting for those main clauses, or as the trimmings which surround them, I purpose to speak chiefly of the proposed extension of the power of deportation. By this bill the Government proposes to add a new crime - that of striking - to the calendar of crimes punishable by the deportation of the offender. No previous government has ever sought to provide that a striker shall be deported from Australia simply because he is a striker. This bill not only provides for that; it goes further, and enacts that any one who is concerned in a strike may be deported from Australia. Undoubtedly this legislation is aimed at the industrial leaders of the country: it goes far beyond those individuals whose names have been mentioned during the course of this debate. Our defence of industrial leaders does not necessarily imply that we consider that they are justified in whatever they do, but that we shall stand, as this party from its inception has stood, for their liberty and protection. Not only does this bill add a new crime to the list of crimes punishable by deportation, but it places those men who are engaged in an industrial dispute in a class worse than that in which criminals are placed. It regards a striker as deserving of less consideration than one who advocates assassination, or is guilty of murder. That may seem to be exaggerated language, but the wording of the bill justifies it. I repeat that this measure denies to a striker that protection which is given to the worst assassin. Men who are engaged in industrial disputes are, under this bill, to be refused the trial that is granted to a murderer. Surely that cannot be the intention, of honorable members who sit behind the Government ! But that will be what they will vote for when they vote for this measure. In the act which it is sought to amend, provision is made for the deportation of men who advocate violence, force or assassination, or are guilty of criminal acts. Under the proposed legislation those men are still to he protected to the extent that their guilt must be discovered within a period of. three years from their arrival in Australia. This bill does not provide for their deportation if, after they have been here for three years, they are found guilty of the criminal acts referred to. 
If the honorable member will seek to amend the bill in that direction, he will obtain some support. 
 Na  suggestion has yet been made by the supporters of the Government who have spoken that the bill should be amended in that direction. Because of the prejudice and bias of those who are behind the introduction of this measure it is only strikers who can be deported at any time. There is no suggestion that criminals of the type who advocate violence or assassination should be placed on an equal footing with strikers. Industrial leaders are to receive worse treatment than that now meted out to criminals. Murderers and criminals of the worst type are given a trial; but there is to be no trial for men who have committed the "crime" of engaging in an industrial disturbance. There is, of course, the pretence of a trial; there is to be an investigation by a board. I  invite  any honorable member on the other side to explain the reasons for the appointment nf a board to deal with these men. The Prime Minister carefully evaded the slightest reference to that aspect of the question, and honorable members opposite have also been silent as to why these  men  should not be dealt with by the courts. Do they not trust the courts? Are they afraid that the courts of this country, and their judges, who are pledged to do justice to all, are not to be depended upon to deal -with these strikers as is desired ? While the argument has not yet been put forward in connexion with this bill, we know that one reason which was advanced for the drastic powers of the War Precautions Act was that while a man may be known to be guilty, it is frequently difficult to prove his guilt; that although witnesses are available to prove his guilt, it is not always considered wise to bring them to the courts to give evidence. There can be no other construction put on that argument than that there is a doubt as to the guilt of the accused person in such cases. It is a maxim of British justice that every accused person shall be. given the benefit of the doubt. But this Government and its supporters say that that fundamental principle of British justice should not apply when the accused is a person engaged in an industrial trouble.- A person accused of the most diabolical crime, or the most shocking offence, is given the benefit of any " doubt that may exist, but a striker or a person concerned in a strike is not so treated. That is the kind of legislation which this Government proposes to place upon the statute-book of this country in the year 1925 ! The honorable member for Henty admitted that this measure is drastic. I say that it is vicious. The honorable member said that there is a clanger of an invasion of foreigners imbued with communistic ideas, who would' advocate the overthrow of law and order by force and violence. If such people have been discovered attempting to enter this country for that purpose, what has the Government done in the matter ? The Government has power to prevent their entry into Australia. There is no need for further legislation to enable that to be done : the power already exists. That was made clear bv the right honorable member for North Sydney  (Mr. Hughes),  who pointed out that the existing Immigration Act gave all the power that was necessary in this direction. The honorable member who followed the right honorable member for North Sydney introduced into his speech the ingenious argument that undesirable persons may not be discovered until after they have resided in Australia for a period of three years, and that consequently they could not be dealt with under the existing legislation. If that be so, I suggest that all we have to do is to amend the existing legislation to provide for a period greater than three years: But this bill does not propose to do that. It has been introduced specifically to include in the list of crimes that can be punished by deportation that of having engaged in an industrial dispute. That provision is not only vicious, but it is unsound. It is a denial of that liberty which for many years has been regarded as the right of the working man. The proposed legislation strikes at the root of the principle of trial by jury in the courts of the country, which is the right of every citizen of this great Commonwealth. We have been told that this extraordinary legislation is necessary because of an emergency which has arisen. The emergency indicated by ministerial supporters is the danger of a great shipping strike, likely to involve thousands of workers, and do a~ great deal of injury to trade and commerce in Australia. This impending catastrophe has confronted us for many months. No one regrets it more than I and other honorable members on this side of the House, and no one will do more to avert disturbances of that description. The bill now before the House will not prevent this industrial crisis. On the contrary, it will aggravate it. This has been the experience with all legislation of this character in the history of Australia. At the conclusion of his speech, the Prime Minister stated that any laws to ensure industrial peace would be of no avail without the cooperation of the leaders on both sides. With that statement I heartily concur. Strongly as I believe in the principle of arbitration, I have never held that it will solve all our problems, and bring about industrial peace. A complete understanding between the disputants is essential, and, if arrived at, will be more effective than any legislation yet devised. One would have thought that the Prime Minister, having made that profession, would live lip to it; but, instead of doing so, he definitely slammed the door against the leaders of organized labour, who have been striving for the last two or three weeks to arrive at a basis for industrial peace. In Victoria we have a body known as the Industrial Disputes Committee of the Trades Hall Council. Every honorable member with an intimate knowledge of industrialism in this state will agree that that committee has done more to maintain industrial peace in Victoria than any other institution or organization. The committee consists of a body of honest, earnest men, who, without thought of reward, have given much of their time to the. settlement of industrial troubles. Occasionally they have failed, but in the majority of cases they have succeeded in smoothing over disputes and keeping the wheels of industry going: A few months ago, in Adelaide, representatives of the disputes committee met the delegates of other industrial organizations of Australia, and, as this trouble was looming in the distance they created a disputes committee for Australia on the lines of the Victorian committee, which has been doing such good work in this state for so many years. Subsequently members of the newly-formed organization waited upon the Prime Minister, and requested him to summon a round-table conference with the ship-owners. They gave a definite undertaking that they would do all they possibly could to discipline any union, or the individuals in any union, that threatened to disturb any agreement arrived at by that conference. A more reasonable proposition was never put before the head of any government in any part of the world by the representatives of organized labour. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister spurned their overtures, and slammed the door on all negotiation. It was obvious that his reply to the deputation had been prepared beforehand, and that he was not in the mood to listen to reason or argument. 
He handed his reply to the press before delivering it. 
I heard that statement made, and. I was amazed at it. As an excuse for his attitude the right honorable gentleman declared that the Government stood by the principle of arbitration, and that as ,the Seamen's Union had been deregistered he would have nothing to do  with  it. Subsequently he stated publicly that as the seamen were outside the court the Government .would fight them to a finish. Does the Prime Minister know what a fight to a finish with the great industrial movement of this county means ? These  honest  men, who have been earnestly striving for some means to avert trouble, said, in effect, that the onus would be on the representatives of organized unionism in Australia to honour the compact to ensure peace. This  is  the first time that such an undertaking has been given by the representatives of organized labour for the whole of Australia. By his refusal io grant their request, the Prime Minister turned down the best opportunity ever presented to ensure industrial  peace in Australia. Is it suggested that the Arbitration Court is sacrosanct? As a matter of fact, there is no reason why men should be " beyond the pale " simply because they are outside the jurisdiction of the court. 

 - Mr. Hughes recognizedthat. 
Everybody does. Several big unions in Australia have never registered with the Arbitration Court, and still they are able to carry on negotiations for the peaceful conduct of their work. Of course, the Prime Minister's excuse that the seamen must be fought to a finish because they have been deregistered is merely a bogy. It is well known that political forces opposed to the Labour party have never been unanimous in their support of arbitration. The only party that has been solid for that principle for the last fifteen or twenty years is the Labour party. I have always favoured arbitration. I realize that disputes are bound to occur in this buying and selling of human labour, just as in the buying and selling of commodities, and I prefer to see them settledby constitutional means, instead of by the resort to strikes and lockouts. Some years ago, I lost my seat in this chamber for having voted to extend the principle of arbitration. The honorable member for Hume  (Mr. Parker Moloney),  and several other honorable membersof the Labour party representing country constituencies, because they dared to vote for the inclusion of rural workers, were hounded out of public life by the people who support honorable members now sitting on the Treasury bench. We are told that, because the Seamen's Union is outside the Arbitration Court, there can be no negotiations with them. Do honorable members supporting the Government stand for the principle of arbitration? What is the position of the honorable member for Forrest  (Mr. Prowse)  ? Does the honorable member for Swan  (Mr. Gregory)  champion it? What did the honorable member for Franklin  (Mr. Seabrook)  say in this debate? According to him, the Arbitration Court is the greatest curse in Australia. 
 Of course it is. 
The honorable member is at least frank about it. When he was asked, by way of interjection, whether he would ad vocate the lowering of wages if the Arbitration Court could be got rid of, he replied "Yes." The cat has been let out of the bag! Although the Prime Minister refuses to negotiate with the representatives of organized labour, on the paltry excuse that the Seamen's Union is outside the jurisdiction of the court, an honorable member sitting behind the Government says that this court is the greatest . curse in Australia. A point that has not been stressed is that, immediately after the representatives of the organized unions had been rebuffed, they sought an interview with the ship-owners. The latter, also, courteously but firmly, refused them a hearing. 
 I thought that the owners did meet them. 
Not at that time. The ship-owners eventually agreed to meet the union representatives after the Commonwealth Shipping Board had agreed to include in the articles the working conditions awarded by the court. Prior to that, however, when the time was opportune to strike a blow for peace, the door was slammed in their faces. The Prime Minister did not even ask the accredited representatives of organized unionism in Australia what they wished to discuss with him, but simply replied,  "No;  the Seamen's Union has sought deregistration." That statement, although it has been repeatedly made, is false. The union did not seek deregistration, but, on the contrary, it fought against it, and spent thousands of pounds to prevent it. 
The honorable member will surely recognize that this bill does not deal merely with the procedure and complaints of one union. 
I do, but I propose to show that, although the House and the country have been informed that this bill is legislation intended to deal with a. pending emergency, the grounds advanced for it are not sound, because, when the representatives of organized labour sought to deal with the particular emergency in question, their representations were ignored. The union repelled the application for deregistration in the first instance, but it was attacked on a second  occasion, and it "would not have been deregistered had it not been for the application made by the ship-owners, in conjunction with the Commonwealth Shipping Board. On what ground was the application made? It was said that the union refused to man the  Eromanga  and the  Dilga.  That offence, we are told, justified the Government in refusing to negotiate with the representatives of organized labour, and justifies the present bill. I point out, however, that a sort of guerilla warfare has been going on between the Seamen's Union and the Commonwealth Shipping Line for some time. There may be faults on both sides, but the fault mainly lies on the side of those who began the fight, and in this case it was the Commonwealth Shipping Line, which chartered vessels not observing Australian conditions. Three of the four ships chartered in Great Britain had coloured crews. The  Volumnia  had a white crew, who, when they became aware of what had been done, lived up to the best traditions of British seamen, and declared that they would not be made tools of to the detriment of Australians. 
Order ! I cannot see the relationship between the procedure adopted by the Commonwealth Shipping Line and the Immigration Bill. 
I submit that my remarks have a very strong bearing on the measure, but I bow to your ruling. The Government's entire justification for the bill is that it is emergency legislation. I hope that what the Prime Minister refused to do a fortnight ago he will now do, even at this belated hour. He has said that disputes of this character may be settled if the leaders on both sides are willing to come together. I have pointed out 'that the leaders of trade unionism have shown more than a desire to bring about industrial peace. The onus, therefore, is on the Government and their supporters outside to assist in bringing about a peaceful settlement of the present trouble. Had I been permitted to proceed with my argument, I should have shown that this bill, which is drastic and abrogates all the principles of British justice - -denying the protection of the courts of the land to industrial leaders, although it gives the benefit of the doubt to the vilest  criminals  - is not designed, as is claimed, to meet an emergency. Nor has it been introduced be cause of fear of any communistic bogy, one of many ghosts that the Labour party- has had to lay during the 25 years of its existence. Some twenty years ago it was alleged that the Labour party wasout to smash the marriage tie; Bolshevism, and communism had not been thought of at that time. The ridiculous assertion wasmade that infants were to be nationalized and taken from their weeping mothers tobe placed in a compound. Just as our opponents have continually changed the name of their party, so have they altered the bogies with which they have tried tofrighten the people. No ; this is not anemergency measure, and it has not beenintroduced for fear of the communist bogy. It is intended as a display of strength. The party opposite wishes toshow. that it has a strong Government, and that there is a Mussolini in Australia-, prepared to do things that no other PrimeMinister has been ready to do. I maintain, however, that the Government,, instead of making a display of strength,, has furnished an exhibition of weakness.. Big interests outside which honorable members opposite represent have issued the word of command, and the political! servants inside have rushed to obey. The divided ranks of the Government have been consolidated on this matter. Pacts and pools have been forgotten. The. tariff has been thrown overboard. Everything has been thrust aside to make a big political push against the ranks of organized labour. This is harsh legislation. Deportationmeans transportation, for life. In thecruel old days in the Old World, transportation for life was regarded asan alternative to hanging. Yet this  is the punishment to be meted out under this bill to men who dare" to take part in an industrial dispute  in  this country. Honorable members opposite have said that it does not matterwhether a man dealt with under this bill1, has been here three years or 30 years-.. How little do honorable members think of the rights of citizenship when they speak like that. Men who have been herefor 30 or 40 years have been the pioneers! of Australia, and have blazed the track.. They have laid the foundations of this? country. They have long enjoyed citizen rights. They are citizens of the Commonwealth, and they are entitled to equal treatment under the law with any Australianborn citizen. It is because of their years of citizenship, because they have established their homes in this land, and because their family interests are rooted deep in its soil, that we protest against such persons being willy-nilly shanghaied out of the country which we love to speak of as a land of freedom. The honorable member for Henty  (Mr. F. Francis)  says that we should preserve law and order. I agree with that. I stand for the preservation of law and order. The party to which I belong stands for constitutional action. We want a change in the existing system, but we want that change made by constitutional methods. I say to the- Government, and honorable members who stand behind them, that if they wish to preserve law and order they must preserve respect for the law by making it just, and not harsh. Harsh and unjust measures always destroy respect for the law. This measure is harsh and unjust, and will destroy respect for the law. Oppression may make slaves of some, but it unquestionably makes rebels of many others. This measure will make rebels of  men who have been good citizens. Honorable members on this side are not opposing the bill because of fear of its political consequences. If, as a political party, we were selfish, we should welcome this measure. Its passage will strengthen this party politically. But we are against it because it is unsound in principle, because it must be harsh in its operation, and because it will punish individuals for industrial offences, if their actions can be so described, by deportation from the land in which they have lived for many years. This bill will stir the trade unionism of this country into action. It will wake up the apathetic, and galvanize them into life. It will do no harm to the Labour party. Though individual unionists may to-day be condemned by their fellows, differences of opinion will be forgotten, unionists will be more determined than ever to fight for better conditions, and trade unionism will grow stronger, because of legislation like this. The history of the world shows that oppressive laws have never solved these problems. This bill will not reform anything. Under it a few may be punished, but it will provide no remedy for any existing evil. The only advantage of a permanent character that, in my opinion, is likely to arise from it is that it may be used as a relic to be shown to future generations as another example of the coercive laws which governments have introduced to keep the workers in subjection. Looking back upon the age-long struggle in which leaders of the working class have fought for economic and political freedom, it will be seen that when they encountered obstacles such as this, they surmounted them, and went on their way. In Ballarat there is an Old Curiosity Shop, and hanging on a wall of the building is a "miner's right" that was issued in the fifties of last century. It is there as a relic and an example of what a harsh and despotic government can do. In the Art Gallery of the golden city there is preserved and treasured an old flag - the flag the revolting diggers hoisted at the Eureka Stockade. I say to the Government and to those who sit behind them to-day that they should ponder well the lesson to be learned from that old miner's right and the old tattered flag of Eureka. 
.- This bill is one of the most important measures discussed in this Parliament since the passing of the Immigration Restriction Act of 1901. It rightly gives the Government power to regulate the immigration of people of foreign nations, and it also gives a very definite power to deport aliens when the necessity for their deportation arises. So far the measure has been discussed under three headings : immigration, deportation, and industry. It has been stated that under the existing law the Government has ample power to deal with immigration. If that is so, honorable members opposite can have no great grievance against the bill iti that respect. But the provisions of the existing law dealing with immigration are not fair either to the immigrants or the Government. They give the Government power to apply the education test on the arrival of an immigrant. In fact, we say to the people of other countries,  ' You are all welcome ; come along to Australia " ; but when they arrive the Government, carrying out the provisions of the existing act, can apply the education test in any prescribed language, and may use the test as a definite bar to the admission of any person. But under the bill now before the House immigration is dealt with and regulated in such a way as to be perfectly fair. I am pleased that the Opposition has not discovered any serious ground of objection on which to challenge the provisions of this measure dealing with immigration. 
So far as the deportation clauses of the hill are concerned, I may say that under the existing act persons may be deported under certain conditions, but not if they have been in Australia for three years or over. Under the existing law the average undesirable with the  cunningness  and shrewdness which characterize such people could lie low for three years after his arrival in the Commonwealth, and then begin to sow the seeds of discontent and become a menace to good government.  His  presence in the . Commonwealth might be very undesirable, but the Government would have then no power under the existing law to deport him. Under this bill the Government would have power by proclamation to deport for all time any immigrant alien or undesirable. I commend the Government for the ample provision made in the measure it has introduced to deal with this very important matter. No government could continue to exist if it exceeded its duty in the application of the deportation clauses of this bill. They are, in my opinion, absolutely necessary to maintain the good government of this country, and they are to be used only in the event of the necessity arising. Whilst honorable members opposite are entitled to their own opinion, others differ from them with regard to the power of deportation. I find that the Aliens Restriction Act of 1914 of the United Kingdom provides in section. 1 that - 
His Majesty may at any time when  a  state of war exists between His Majesty and any foreign power, or when it appears that a case of imminent national danger or great emergency has arisen, make provision by Order in Council for the deportation of aliens from the United Kingdom. 
That is a more drastic provision than the clauses of this bill, to which so much exception has been taken. In Canada, legislation more drastic than that 'now under consideration has been carried. In that dominion persons proposed to be deported are dealt with by a board, as proposed in this bill. We all know what happened in South Africa quite recently. and there the power to deport is left absolutely and entirely in the hands of the Government. In New Zealand, under the Undesirable Immigrants Exclusion Act of 1919, the Attorney-General is authorized, if so* directed by the Governor-General in Council, to order the deportation of any person from New Zealand. Persons ordered to leave New Zealand may be arrested and detained pending deportation, and provision is made for the payment of such expenses in connexion with the deportation as the Attorney-General considers reasonable. There, it will be seen, the power of deportation is entirely in the hands of the Government, and there is no reference, as under this bill, to a board. In the United States of America, under the act of 1924 - it is to be found in the  Federal Statutes Annotated Supplement,  at page 46 - provides that any alien who at any time after entering theUnited States of America is found tohave been at the time of entry not entitled to enter, may be deported. In view of the fact that provision for the deportation of undesirable persons is made by the leading nations, of the world, I cannot understand the opposition of the Labour party to the provisions of this bill, which, in my opinion, are absolutely imperative. The deportation provisions of the bill may not be used, but still they are necessary, because they can be used in an emergency. Many laws on the statutebook would prove most unpopular, and, indeed, most unfair in their incidence if they were applied to the fullest extent.. If persons were constantly being arrested for most trivial offences, how long would such a condition of affairs be tolerated?  Yet  the policeman has unlimited powers of arrest. He does not exercise them to the fullest extent, nor will the Government exercise to the ' fullest extent thepowers given by this bill. 
The position of Australia to-day is very much the same as that of America a hundred years ago. The people of America have bought their experience dearly, and we are profiting by it by taking immediate steps to maintain our racial purity and avoid all possibility of having undesirable immigration. America has now partly closed its doors against immigrants, and I fully believe that many of that country's leading statesmen regret that such action was not taken long ago. Other nations are also closing their doors against people whom- they do not desire. The power of deportation may not have been needed in the past, but at the present time it is absolutely necessary, because it is probable that within the next 30 or 40 years, or even within a shorter  period,  Australia will have a great inflow of immigrants. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr. Charlton)  says that, providing there is no unemployment in the Commonwealth, and providing that every person who conies here is provided with employment, he is quite prepared to assist immigration to the fullest extent. But it is within the memory of the oldest honorable member that there have always been unemployed in Australia, and if we adopt the policy advocated by the leader of the Opposition, I am afraid we shall have no immigration at all; because we shall always have unemployed in our midst. It is much more pleasing to me to contrast the views of another prominent Labour leader with the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition. While all honorable members appreciate the sincerity of that honorable member, we equally appreciate that of his brother Labour man whom I am about to quote. The 

 Age. of the 9th July last contained the following paragraph : - 
The Premier,  Mr. Collier,  was accorded a public reception in Perth on Wednesday, and a state luncheon later. Notable features of the Premier's utterances were his emphatic declaration in favour of well-directed migration, the possibilities of trade within the Empire, and the conservative tone adopted towards a borrowing policy. He did not think any large increase of population would increase unemployment. 

 Mr. Collier's opinion is vastly different from that of the Leader of the Opposition, and should provide ample thought for all exCept those who are prejudiced and have made up their minds not to be convinced. It strengthens my opinion that we should have the fullest freedom to introduce immigrants in order to fill our waste -spaces. I wish also to contrast the opinion of the honorable member for Darling  (Mr. Blakeley)  with that of a, brother Labour mau,  Mr. Theodore,  ex-Premier of Queensland. The honorable member said, in effect, that if he had his way not another Italian would enter Australia. With all due respect to the honorable member, for whom every one has the highest respect, I think  Mr. Theodore  has an equal amount of intelligence. He has been living in that part of Australia where Italians are working, and he has been closely associated with them as settlers. According to the Brisbane  Daily Mail  of the 4th July,  Mr. 
Theodore, speaking at Cairns, dealt with the influx of foreigners, and said - that the Italian question was an important one which came within the realm of federal politics, because it was the Commonwealth Government which controlled migration. They fully agreed that in Australia an increase of population was imperative, and they could not hope to develop effectively, or hold this vast continent, willi a mere handful of 6,000,000 people. It would be a constant menace to the White Australia policy if they continued to occupy the country so sparsely..... 
Britishers were certainly welcome, and for years past there had been a very liberal system of assisted passages, but unhappily the stream of Britishers under this system had been remarkably small, while that of Italians had been large. It was no good having racial prejudice on matters of this kind. Referring to the aggregation of foreigners in small centres, he said that in the Burnett they had some of the best land in Queensland or in Australia, amounting to 3,000,000 acres. 
Here is a very significant statement by  Mr. Theodore- 
The first 14,000 blocks were opened in 1923. and the first 400 blocks had not yet been settled. ... If the Italian went there, it would be a means of solving the problem. 
Either the honorable member for Darling or  Mr. Theodore  is wrong. I am inclined to think that  Mr. Theodore,  in the way he has handled this very important question, is a great deal nearer the truth than the honorable member for Darling. 
Unemployment has been touched on very frequently. As I understand the position, the unemployment which exists in Australia to-day is the result of high wages, shorter hours of work, and the unlimited opportunity for recreation the cities provide. In Australia half the population is to be found in the cities, and there is an increasing flow to them of the young sons and daughters of our farmers, who are so urgently needed in our effort to open up the country. They flock to the cities because the conditions of city life are so much superior to those of country, life. I know the reason for it. We have a Customs tariff that allows the manufacturer a market largely to himself. We have- wages boards and arbitration courts that fix wages in accordance with the cost of living. I do not contend that there is room for any reduction of wages until the price of commodities is reduced. As a matter of fact, high as the existing wage may appear, the wage-earner is compelled to live a hand-to-mouth existence. But we can pay high wages so long as we have efficiency. I am certain that there are some manufacturers in the Commonwealth who are fleecing the community, and that profiteering is as rampant in our midst to-day as it has ever been in the history of federation. And it is not all onesided, owing to the inefficiency on the part of workers. While workers in the factories are giving as little service as they possibly can, and while manufacturers are charging as much as they can, the rest of the community is bound to suffer. It is a problem that needs to be tackled in a non-party way by both sides of the House. I say without fear of successful contradiction that there is sufficient employment in the country for thousands of men, but not at the rates of wages paid in the city factories. The primary producer has to' compete in the world's market with the employers of sweated labour in other countries. 
The honorable member will surely find it difficult to connect his remarks with the bill. 
I am trying to connect my remarks with the provisions for restricting alien immigration. Under reasonable conditions there is room in this country for many more people, and I am endeavouring to show that the secondary industries in the cities receive preferential treatment. 
I am afraid that the honorable member cannot proceed on those lines in debating this bill. 
The only objection I have to the bill is that it is not half severe enough. I would give the Government power to deal with those persons whom the community feels are undesirables; it should get rid of them at the earliest possible moment. 
An Honorable Member. - Hear, hear ! 
I tell the honorable member who says " hear, hear " that, but for the pressure applied by the trade unions of this country, members of the Labour party would not be so uncompromising in their opposition to this bill. 
Do not talk nonsense. 
Let me give the honorable member some evidence of the pressure exerted upon members of Parliament by the Trades Hall in this state: - 
On the motion of Messrs. H. C. Gibson and J. Fryer, the following resolution was passed by the Melbourne Trades Hall Council last night concerning the attitude towardsthe bill of a member in another place :  - 
That in the opinion of this council any legislator returned as a Labour member who supports or votes for the deportation clauses of the Immigration Bill now before Parliament is unworthy of being a member of the Labour party, and should be expelled. 
Does any honorable member say "hear, hear " to that? 
Mr.Mathews. - Hear, hear ! 
I am satisfied that most of the members of the honorable member's party, if they were not subject to outside pressure, would endorse my view of the deportation clauses of the bill. I hope the bill will have a speedy passage, andthat amendments moved in committee will not make the deportation clauses of it less stringent. I support the second reading with pleasure, and shall vote for any amendments that will improve the bill. 
This bill has greater potentialities than any other bill I have seen. There is in its provisions power to destroy the goodwill existing between different classes of the community. I had the misfortune to witness in this chamber many years ago the forcing through by the State Government of a bill to deal with the great maritimestrike. The government that introduced that iniquitous measure was shortly afterwards expelled from office. It was the landboom in 1889 that led up to the maritime strike. Mr.H. M. Hyndman, in his book,  Commercial Crises of the Nineteenth Century,  shows that boom periods recur periodically, and, according to his theory, another boom in Australia is about due. During the maritime strike to which I have referred, the sailors, in loyal comradeship with the engineers, ceased work, and I shall never forget the misery and wretchedness that resulted. Two hundred of my friends lost their homes in the crash that followed the bursting of the land boom, and are now scattered throughout Australia. West Melbourne and North Melbourne then lost some of the finest workers those districts ever had. Financial institution after financial institution closed its doors. Men with deposits of £10,000 could not draw more than £200 or £300, and that only as a favour. Misery was general. 
Landlords did not receive rent, but paid their tenants to remain in their houses. The Government to-day is standing, like Moses on Mount Pisgah, looking at the Promised Land. I believe that every honorable member wants to see Australia, our promised land, setting an example to the rest of the world in advanced legislation. The money power of the world has now more influence than ever it had before, and kings and 'aristocracies have lost much of the power they once held. No king to-day, except, perhaps, an Eastern potentate, would dare to declare war without consulting his subjects. That is one benefit the world derived from the great war. I have never advocated a war or a strike, because behind every soldier. as behind every striker,  I  see the woman and the child, and I know how much they suffer. During the great maritime strike three loads of sheep's heads were sent into Melbourne and carried free to the Trades Hall. They were made into soup, and any mother who wanted one could take it away with her. Auctioneers dared not sell distrained goods in Melbourne. A man who was as good as ever breathed the breath of life held under control every auctioneer in Melbourne who tried to sell goods seized under warrants of distress. When rent had not been paid for one week, a technicality of the law was invoked and the tenants' goods were seized. All that was, however, eventually stopped. The memories of those times are terrible, but although many of the fathers and mothers who lived then have passed away, their children remember what they suffered. Under this bill we are dealing not with a state, but with a continent, and when it was introduced I could not help saying to the honorable member on my left,  ' Shades of Gladstone ! What are we coming to ?" I have no time for Walsh and Johannsen, who have repudiated the Labour party. Just as the Labour party has no time for them,  so  they have no time for us. If the Parliament passes this bill there is no certainty how far it will reach. After the maritime' strike, which was the most terrible in my experience, Victoria had a railway strike. It was caused by the then Premier,  Mr., now Sir William,  Irvine. On a certain night, in the hope that the parties would come together, I spoke in the House for five and a half hours. The workers suffered great misery, and suffered it unjustly. I met a number of them in South Africa recently. I am grateful to that dominion for providing a home for 4,000 or 5,000 deserving Australians who were driven seeking work out of this country. Honorable members from Western Australia know that refugees from Victoria went to that state in thousands. One day I stood in St. George's-terrace for half an hour, and 35 Melbourne men came up and spoke to me. The men who had been forced to strike offered to accept a county court or supreme court judge as an arbitrator, but the strong man of the time, the so-called " Iceberg," crushed them. Two bills were brought down. 1 compared one of them, paragraph by paragraph, with the terrible bill passed by the British Parliament after the assassination of Lord Cavendish and  Mr. Burke,  and introduced on the night when the mortal remains of those men were buried. Does any one doubt that the British Parliament was severe? But it was not so severe a3 the Victorian Parliament at the time of which I speak. If honorable members doubt what I say, let them read in  Hansard  the severe indictment of  Sir William  Irvine by the Leader of the Opposition when he left the Victorian Parliament. For an offence for which Gladstone's Coercion Act imposed a sentence of three months, the Victorian Parliament imposed a sentence of twelve months. If a few people stood together in the street they were liable to be arrested, and any one who assisted the women and children could be imprisoned. 1 told Parliament that, law or no law, I would help the women and children. By the second act, every public servant was robbed of the right to vote in the district in which he resided, because the Government knew that the public servants were opposed to it. Members of the Victorian Parliament agreed unanimously, in the Council and Assembly alike, to expunge that act from the Victorian statute-book. In this connexion let me recall the incident when  Mr. Lloyd  George - who was not then Prime Minister of Great Britain, although a Minister, and who was then more truthful than he is to-day - unveiled a monument at Tolpuddle, in Dorsetshire, to the memory of three men who were imprisoned for seven, five, and three years respectively because they asked that their working week should be reduced to 70 hours and their weekly wages increased from l1s. to 13s. The conditions in  Great Britain were deplorable, and in Australia they have been such that we are glad to forget them.  Mr. Harrison  Ord, one of the finest men who ever controlled a" Government department, and who, unfortunately, died too early in nis career, was largely responsible for our present factories legislation and the improved conditions under which our people are working. In England even little children were employed in factories, and it was often necessary to thrash them to keep them awake. In Australia girls were employed at 2s. 6d. a week, and the records in the archives of our library bearing on Victorian factory legislation disclose the attitude adopted by  Sir Alexander  Peacock in giving effect to reforms which were advocated by men like the late Rev. Edgar, of Wesley Church,  Mr. Samuel  Mauger, the late  Senator Barker, Mr. Sincock, Mrs. Muir,  and myself. In connexion with an inquiry held into the conditions under which women and children were employed in Australian clothing industries,  Mr. Harrison  Ord stated that the employers - the " kind " employers to use his own words - paid girls 2s. 6d. on Saturday morning, an amount which they were compelled to return on the following Monday, as it was said that they wereb eing taught a trade. But owing to the activities of  Mr. Ord  and Miss Cuthbertson - one of God's good women - who was then an inspector, and who, until recently, occupied a responsible position in the Myer Emporium, it was found that these girls were not being taught a trade, and that the wages paid were from 8s. 7d. to 10s. 9d. per week. 
I find it difficult to see how this can have a direct bearing on the Immigration Bill. 
I am showing that, owing to organization, the industrial conditions to-day are infinitely better than they were during the period which I have mentioned. Under a recent agreement between employers and employees in South Africa, men and women, whether white or coloured, must be paid the same rate. Will the Australian shipping companies tell their employees what their wages and conditions will be, and what hours they will be expected to work ? As wealthy shipping companies have paid me1s. a month for medical work done for them on board ship -1s. a month for looking after migrants  who  were being taken to Western Australia - can any one blame seamen who are forced to protect themselves for any action they may take to do so? Medical officers on Australian coastal vessels are paid £25 a month, but those serving on overseas vessels are paid only £15 a month,but many doctors give their services for as little as 1s. a month, simply because the medical profession is not sufficiently organized. Why should the shipping companies object to insert  in  the agreement with their men a provision setting out the conditions under which they are towork? Such quibbles and pinpricks lead only to industrial unrest, such as occurred during the maritime strike. I had to wait until 1903 to see one of the strongest opponents of the claims of maritime workers deprived of the right to sit in this Parliament. I bear him now no ill  will,  but I shall never forget the actions of  two  scoundrels who acted as his secretaries. Would any employer working under the Factories Act  dare  to do what the big shipping companies are attempting? They are out to destroy our Commonwealth shipping service, and so force our produce to be carried in vessels under their control. There are vague rumours - I hope there is not a scintilla of truth in them - that even the heads of the Commonwealth Government line are not above suspicion. and that they are acting in the interests of the Shipping Combine. I refer honorable members to the opinion expressed by the right honorable member for North Sydney  (Mr. Hughes),  who,. I consider, put the position very clearly. I have no respect for men such as  Mr. Walsh,  who repudiates and disregards the policy of the party I represent. I cannot forget his wife and little children, who have a right to some protection. I shall closely watch how the votes of honorable members are recorded on the second reading of this bill, and I think I shall be safe in saying that a majority of those who support its passage will lose their seats at the next election. On the 1st December last, a scale of wages was introduced in South Africa which it is hoped will be the means of preventing strikes and industrial disorder. From the date mentioned the highest wage paid in the building trade was 2s. 9d. per hour, but in most districts it has since been increased to 3s. 4d. per hour. A genuine endeavour has been made to dispense with overtime, as it is recognized that it interferes with continuity of employment, which is essential to the welfare of the people. In connexion with the building trade in South Africa, it has been provided that - 
Any person who is guilty of an offence under this act for which no penalty is expressly provided shall be liable to a fine of not exceeding £500, or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding two years, or to both fine and imprisonment. 
An Australian millionaire, named McKay, is endeavouring to introduce women into the moulding shops of the establishment under his control. Will he pay them men's wages? 
 They are already there. 
One only needs to inspect the works to see the arduous nature of the employment, and to realize that 25s. per week is totally inadequate pay for it. Honorable members would do well to study the South African system, as it would do more to prevent strikes than legislation such as that which is now proposed. One is tempted to ask whether the money kings of the world are ruling Australia. As an old banker, I know that nothing will tend to create depression, or destroy credit, so much as unemployment. The raising of the rate of interest, making it difficult for bankers to advance money, has a similar effect. God knows that I do not want to see a big maritime strike in Australia. I remember the great upheaval that took place some years a.go, and I do not want to undergo a similar experience again. The ship-owners probably believe that, because of the great number of unemployed, they will be able to fill the places of the men who refuse to work; but I would remind them that the bonds that unite the workers are to-day more strongly welded than ever before. I have heard many election cries which came to nought, after the people had expressed their will at the poll. Have honorable members forgotten the Kyabram movement? Individually, Ministers may be estimable gentlemen, but as a body comprising the Cabinet of this country, I tell them that if they bring about this crisis, their names will go down to posterity as those of men who were utterly unworthy of their high office. Instead of introducing a bill which has as its object the deportation of a few men, why does the Government not tell the ship-owners to place in black and white in the men's articles the conditions, wages, and hours of work that will apply to them? 
 And the freights that they will charge. 
Will any honorable member contend that men should be engaged for work and not told the conditions pertaining to their employment? If honorable members could see what I have seen, not one of them would vote for this measure. Just as the common sense of the people of Victoria resulted in the repeal of the acts introduced into the Victorian Parliament by  Sir William  Irvine, so will it seal the fate of this Government if it persists with this measure. Ministers resemble the ancient Roman gladiators, who in the arena cried, "Hail Caesar: we who are about to die salute you." The Government is in a similar position : it is about to die. I protest against this legislation; if it becomes law, I shall not consider myself bound by it until it has the approval of the people. There should be a referendum of the people on such an important matter; whatever the people decided, I should be prepared to accept. In this connexion, I desire to refer to a resolution of the Labour party of England, that - 
No treaty or convention of any kind shall be binding on this country, or will be recognized as such by any future Labour Government, until it has been confirmed by Parliament. 
I feel disposed to move, when the bill reaches the committee stage, the addition of the following words to clause 7 : - . 
Notwithstanding anything contained in this act, or any other act, it shall be mandatory that when any profiteer, whether an individual or a company, has been proved to have made 100 per cent. profit on any food, drink, clothing or rent, he or they shall be deported; in any case in which any money-lender or financial institution has been proved to have  charged as much as or more than  25  per cent. during any current year, he or they shall he deported. 
 Will the honorable member apply that principle to doctors? 
I am a believer in the nationalization of the medical and legal professions. Who supports the profiteers. Honorable members on this side certainly do not. If we had the power, we would control every one of them. That profiteers and money-lenders are supported by honorable members on the other side was evidenced by the raising of the rate of interest by the Commonwealth Bank authorities without any protest from them. In his useful work,  Commercial Crises of the Nineteenth Century,  Mr. H.  M. Hyndman, when dealing with the Baring crisis in England, said - 
Not a single bondholder or shareholder was represented on this great committee, of which Lord Rothschild was the  chairman,  and the whole affair was arranged to the ruin of the investors so as to suit the pockets of those who sat with him round the table. 

 Mr. Hyndman refers to the Rothschilds, who took this opportunity to crush their rivals, the firm of Baring Brothers. If the Government persists in its present attitude, we shall have in Australia a crisis similar to that experienced in England in  1890.  Honorable members must remember that in this dispute a whole continent is involved. I ask them, therefore, to pause before they record their vote for the bill. If men break the laws of the country, they should be punished, but not deported. 
 The Government has adopted a policy of cowardice. 
As surely as the Government says,in effect tothose whom it wishes to deport, " As we cannot allow you to remain in this country and punish you sufficiently, out you go," so will the people of this continent, through the ballot-box, say to those now on the Treasury bench, " Out you go." 
.- It is not my intention to say much about the first clauses of this bill, as their purpose is to provide Australia with a better class of immigrant. 
 I draw attention to the state of the House. 
Legislation which will ensure a better class of immigrant is greatly to be desired. Honorable members know that among those who have migrated to Australia are many undesirables; anything that will bring about a better state of affairs in that connexion is to be commended. Honorable members of the Labour party have advocated the introduction of the quota system. I point out, however, that, while that system has its advantages, it also has many disadvantages. Once we arrange for. quotas, it will be difficult to alter them, and to prevent persons to the number fixed upon from entering Australia. While there are some people whom wo do not want in Australia at all, it is very difficult for us to say that we shall allow some to come here, and keep out others. We are not in a position to do that. If we can so arrange matters that we shall not be compelled to admit as citizens of this country people from some of the European states, we shall do wellto adopt that course. It is unwise for us to say anything derogatory about any nation, or its people, as such statements may cause much harm. We can take the stand that, if people do not conform to our standards, we shall not permit them to enter Australia; and we can do that while showing the best of feelings towards them. When I was a boy I worked for a man and lived in his house as a member of his family. I always thought that the mother of that family was the embodiment of common sense and common honesty - and when one says that of a person he says all that is necessary. On one thing she insisted, and that was that no one in her house should say anything derogatory of any one else. On one occasion, when her lad was playing with another boy, a dispute arose, and hot words were exchanged. The lad retailed the incident to his mother, who reminded him that he must not speak ill of his playfellow, who was God's child just as he was. Then, the motherly instinct asserting itself, she said, " But you must not play with him." That is how it is with us as a people. We do not wish to say anything against the people of certain other countries. Indeed, we may regard them with the best of good feeling, but we do  not want them in Australia; we do not want to play withthem. They may be quite as good as, and perhaps better than, we are in many ways, but since we cannot  assimilate them in our population we do not want them in this country. It has been said that, because of our unemployment difficulties, we cannot absorb many immigrants. I do not think there is amore distressing spectre in the world than unemployment, especially when nien are willing to work but unable to find it. It would be extraordinary if a country like Australia, with an area of 3,000,000 square miles and a population of less than 6,000,000, could not absorb more people. This big country should produce millions of pounds' worth of those commodities for which the world is hungering. To suggest that we cannot absorb many more millions of people is an admission of bankruptcy in statesmanship and co-operation. I have in my hand a pamphlet compiled by one of the ablest citizens of my state. The writer is one of our biggest and most successful farmers, besides having important financial interests in other directions. In this pamphlet he is asking the State Government to construct a railway to serve an area of 30,000 square miles of country, which he regards as some of the finest wheat-growing land in  Australia. This man, who knows what he is talking about, declares that there is that vast area in one corner of Western Australia awaiting development. And. yet some people say that we cannot find employment for the comparatively few people in Australia and those who may wish to come to this country ! There is one class of migrant whose admission we cannot afford to limit by any quota; I refer to the Australian baby. The conditions in this country should be such as to encourage more births. Unhappily, the birth rate in the Commonwealth is- not onehalf of what it should be. Many reasons are advanced for this unfortunate condition of affairs. Perhaps the  chief  reason is that a great number of people think that they cannot afford to have larger families. There may be some truth in that. Imagine bread at ls. a loaf, and meat at ls. a lb., in a country that grows the finest wheat and meat in the world ! House rents are so high, and the necessaries of life cost so much, that it is almost impossible for men to rear larger families. Consequently, families are not coming along as they should. We want more young Australians. 
 Many reasons have been advanced in support of, and against, the deportation clauses of the bill. Some people say it is necessary to give the 'Government this authority because of the industrial unrest that exists in the community. Many honorable members opposite have declared that the provisions are aimed exclusively at certain leaders of the Labour movement. I hope they are not. If I thought there were, I would not support the bill. I hope, also, that in its administration the Government will be absolutely fair and just. Others saythat the present industrial unrest has been brought about by the unfair tactics of the capitalists. There may be something in that. I do not say it is altogether untrue. There is not the slightest doubt that there is a great deal of industrial unrest and discord in Australia, and that anything may happen. I do not believe, however, that the position is as bad as some people suggest. I believe the good sense of the people will prevent an irretrievable disaster. Yet we cannot get away from the fact that, as a people, we are not working as unitedly as we should for the progress of Australia. It seems to me that we are all migrants in one great ship, sailing westward. It is a pity that we cannot agree better, and that there should be so much quarrelling as to who shall pilot the ship. For some time this national craft has been tossing about on troubled waters, and many of the passengers or migrants are wondering whether the right course has been set. Meantime there is much pitching and tossing, due, in some measure, to many of the passengers and crew trying to get hold of the helm. Not a few of the passengers are so seasick that to them it is a matter of no concern whether the ship goes on the rocks. Some people think that there will have to be a great deal of manoeuvring to get the vessel back on her course again. They fear that, unless the greatest care is exercised, she may strike an uncharted rock. In other words, they fear that, unless tilings are soon set right, we may experience all the horrors of internecine strife, That is the danger we should, if possible, avoid. These seasick passengers mustarouse themselves from their lethargy and demand that the vessel be navigated on a definite course. To do this it may be necessary to throw all pilots and would-be pilots overboard. If this is done, a lot of good brains may be lost to the service of the country. Now let me come ashore  again. -I heard the Prime Minister say, not once, but several times, during his second-reading speech, that much of the trouble and unrest in Australia could be traced to the extremists on both sides. I think we may all agree with that statement. On some occasions, truth and wisdom fairly exude from the right honorable gentleman. 1 remember the same statement being put by an old lady in language quite as eloquent, if not so elegant. She said, " We have some very dangerous elephants - meaning elements - in our midst to-day. We have these  bolshewitches  and  arrocracks  - she referred to the extremists among the wealthier people. These two classes are like  cannisters  - that is, cancers - eating into the fair face of our social system. We shall never have peace until we have civilized war." There was more than a modicum of truth in the old lady's statement. These two elements are causing a great deal of trouble in every democratic community. There are capitalists and capitalists. I suppose some people would call me a capitalist, although every penny I have is at work, so I am only a capitalist nominally. During and subsequent to the war it was part of my duty to try to rectify the grievances or troubles of soldiers or their relatives. Many incidents that then came under my notice fairly staggered me. In my commercial experience, extending over 30 years, I have been compelled at times, owing to the exigency of circumstances, to do things of which I did not approve, but during the time of which I speak, I came to a knowledge of things which I did not believe any human being could dp. I found that there were a few men who accumulated wealth and used it for the sole purpose of making other people miserable. 
I remind the honorable member that he is not discussing the bill. 
I believe that. in my own state I could count these persons on my fingers. We have also in our midst those who pretend that they are anxious to promote the welfare of the people, but are in' reality enemies of the com munity. I agree with the Prime Minister that the two extreme elements are the cause of most of the industrial trouble, and it seems to me that a repressive measure such as this bill is necessary to deal with them.  One of those elements may be described as a ghoul and the other as a vampire. Deportation is not too bad for them. To use a simple illustration, let us liken the community to a family. Suppose that a man living under my roof set out to make trouble. No matter how deep may be the affection between husband and wife, differences of opinion arise in a home just as in a community, and they can easily be magnified until they become important enough to cause disruption of the family. K a man living under my roof caused an estrangement between my wife and me, should I not be justified in ejecting him? Undoubtedly I should. But honorable members opposite, by their argument, say, "If he has done anything wrong why not take him to law." Let me remind them that although such a man may not have violated the sacred chastity of the home, or stolen my goods, he may have destroyed something, more valuable than the wealth of Croesus, and may have taken from me that without which life would not be worth living. Honorable members opposite contend that if men were deported the community would object. If in the case I am putting the man were turned out, and my family had no more faith in me than to plead to have him. brought back, it would be because I was no longer fit to be the head of the household, or because I was wrong and he was right. But should an interloper be allowed to return and complete the mischief he had commenced ?, My contention is that all nuisances, whether on the side of commerce and finance or in the ranks of industrialism, should be eliminated, and there should be power to deport them. I have.no desire that the bill should be applicable only to a particular section of the community, nor do I wish it to be made retrospective. As in the case of a family, it is not desirable to turn out a son or daughter. The best method is to attempt reformation. But there is no reason why an interloper, bent on the disruption of society, should not be deported if he offends after the passage of this measure. 
Then the honorable member does not believe iri trial by jury ? 
I maintain that if a person seeks deliberately to create industrial discord and make community life impossible, he should be deported at once and no humbug about it. 
Without a trial? 
I have tried to show that in many cases it is impossible to bring a person within the pale of the law, even though he commit a wrong more serious than the breaking of any law of the land. But I suggest that after the board had decided in favour of deportation it should be necessary for the decision to be confirmed by two judges. The board might possibly be biased, but I do not think that any government would be mean enough to appoint such a body to suit its own ends. 
I have a keen recollection of the terrible results of industrial upheavals. I particularly remember one disturbance that began as a strike, and ended as a lockout. It extended over a long period, and soon afterwards there was an epidemic of influenza. As one who was associated with the efforts to quell the outbreak I had the misery attendant upon the industrial trouble vividly brought home to me. Some people tell us that the workers would have made no progress had it not been for the weapon of the strike, and the employers, on the other hand, contend that they should have the power to shut down their works. There may be something to be said on both sides, but there is no doubt as to the misery suffered by the employees. In one home I saw the father of four little children, one a baby in arms, lying dead on a bed improvised from bacon boxes and bags. I saw the poor wife standing broken-hearted and almost stupefied. When I asked her if she had any food in the house, she replied, " Nothing except a bit of bread." In answer to further questions she explained that she did not like to make her plight known. She told me that her husband had been a good man, and that they had both been prepared to sacrifice everything for an ideal. She said that she had been trying to keep her home together by doing charing, but since her husband had been sick her plight had been terrible. During the previous six months she had sold all the furniture in the house in order to provide food. All that was due to an industrial upheaval. Surely in this twentieth century a better remedy can be found than was tried in that instance ? Many years ago at Daylesford I was associated with a strike, and also with a lockout, and it was claimed then that soon there would be ho necessity for further strikes, and no more misery for anybody. Forty-four years later I witnessed the scene that I have just described. 
The honorable member has, no doubt, had a wide experience, but I point out that his remarks do not bear directly on the bill. 
I claim that any outsider coming to Australia for the purpose of bringing about a state of affairs such as I have described should be deported. 
 But not a man who has lived here for 40 years, and is British born? 
I have already intimated that I consider that the bill should apply only from the date of its enactment. 
 Would the honorable member apply it to British subjects ? 
I would apply it to any man who deliberately caused industrial or social trouble. With the reservations I have indicated I shall support the second reading, hoping that, in the committee stage, amendments along the lines I have suggested will be incorporated. If injustice should be inflicted upon anybody as a result of the bill, I trust to the sense of fair play inherent in the people of Australia and I am sure that they will insist on the punishment of the culprit, and the making of reparation, if possible, for any act of wrong. 
Mr.PARKER MOLONEY  (Hume) [5.55]. - The honorable member who has just resumed his seat was most interesting when he assumed the ro1e of a prophet. He likened the Commonwealth to a ship in distress rolling and tossing about on a sea of trouble and turmoil, and he said that presently the seasick passengers would rise in revolt against the captain. He pictured the people of this country rising up and sweeping from the Treasury bench the real culprits who are responsible for our troubles at the present time. I tell the honorablemember that if the ship of state is in trouble the causes of it can rightly be laid at the door of one set of people only, and they are the people who occupy the Treasury bench and claim to be steering the ship. They are not steering it clear of the rocks; they are steering  it on to them. When a ship is in trouble its captain is primarily to blame, and I venture to say that there never was a captain more to blame for the trouble into which the ship of state has been steered than the captain in charge at the present time. In his generosity the honorable member for Fremantle  (Mr. Watson)  said that there are extremists on both sides. When he said that he seemed to be regarding very closely the honorable member for Indi  (Mr. Cook),  who had just previously astonished him by his utterance that this measure should be twice as drastic as it is. While he had one eye on the honorable member for Indi, no doubt the other was on the honorable member for Franklin  (Mr. Seabrook),  who said that arbitration is the greatest curse this country has experienced. If the honorable member for Fremantle were looking for extremists he had them galore on his own side. He might have confined his attentions to honorable members on his own side, because he could not find in the speeches of honorable members on this side any such extreme opinions. 
So many speeches have been made on 'the bill that it is difficult now to avoid repeating observations that have already been made. The first thing that strikes one about legislation of this kind is that it is panic legislation in the extreme. That has already been said, but it cannot be too often repeated. The worst thing about panic legislation of this character is the great injury it does to the country. It is a bad advertisement for the Commonwealth abroad. In the eyes of the people of other countries, it is about the worst form of advertisement that could be given to Australia. What can be the impression on the public mind of people in other countries when speeches such as those of the head of the Government, the present captain of the Commonwealth ship, are cabled abroad, except that there is a seething mass of discontent in this country. Honorable members opposite are always harping about the necessity of keeping capital in this country, and doing nothing to drive it out. But I venture to say that panic talk and legislation of this kind do more than anything else to discourage the investment of money in the Commonwealth. I propose to contrast the speech made by the Prime Minister the other day, when he indulged in carping criticism of trade unionism in this country, with a speech he made before he assumed office, and hence before the time when he felt called upon to introduce legislation of this kind to draw the minds of the people from the sins of commission and omission of the Government. When the right honorable gentleman was a private member of this House, he spoke on the Industrial Peace Bill after his return from a trip abroad. He spoke then uninfluenced by the motives which are actuating him to-day, when he is trying to stir up the passions of the people and to divert their attention from the sins of his Government. He then expressed his surprise at the speeches made on the Industrial Peace Bill. The same wild statements were then made as have been made by the honorable members for Franklin and Indi on this bill. There were the same tirades of abuse directed against unionism, because of a condition of affairs for which trade unionists were said to be responsible. This is what the Prime Minister said then, as reported in  Hansard  for the 5th August, 1920, page 3329- 
The problem of industrial unrest is worldwide. Any one who has been out of Australia recently knows that our industrial problems and troubles are small in comparison with those of nearly every other part of the world. 
That is as true now as it was then. 
That is so; but it does not suit the right honorable gentleman's book to admit that now. Hewent on to say - 
Early last year I visited Great Britain, the United States of America, France, and Canada. On my return I was surprised by what I heard said on public platforms, and in private conversations, and by what I read in the press concerning the conditions in Australia. 
Does the honorable member know that there were over 500 strikes in Australia in that year ? 
How manywere lockouts? 
-N o matter how many strikes there were then, the party towhich the honorable member for Franklin belongs was in power, and consequently was responsible for them. I am quoting a comparison of Australia with other countries of the world, made by the Prime Minister when a private member. He said, further - 
The impression was abroad that this country was a seething cauldron of unrest, and that it might be better to seek some peaceful land where industrial conditions were more stable. There never was a more absurd impression. We have our industrial troubles; but, as I have said, compared with those ofother countries, they are small. We possess a priceless asset in the fact that, generally speaking, labour here is organized and controlled. 
He paid a tribute to the Commonwealth because of its comparative freedom from industrial unrest, and a tribute, also, to the great industrial organizations of this country. 
So he does to-day. 
If he does, then the industrial organizations cannot be responsible for the conditions which, professedly, this bill is introduced to remedy. Those conditions must be due to the party which has been in power since a Labour Government left office as far back as 1916. I can find nothing better to support my contention than the words of the Prime Minister when he was a private member. This panic legislation, and these tirades of abuse of the great industrial organizations, are calculated to do a great amount of injury to this country by misrepresenting its conditions to people overseas. The conditions existing to-day are the same as those which existed when the Prime Minister, as a private member, took to task those on his own side who were indulging in extreme statements such as those which are being made by honorable members opposite to-day. But the right honorable gentleman does not speak in the. same strain to-day, because to do so does not suit his political book. It suits the political book of the right honorable gentleman and those associated with him to-day to stir up the passions of the people and divert their minds from the real issue. The Prime Minister made a speech recently at Geelong. In order to stir up the enthusiasm so lacking on his own side, he referred to the great victories which were being achieved by Labour. This was prior to the New SouthWales elections, and he referred to the fact that Labour Governments had been returned to power in Western Australia, South Australia, and Tasmania. He then made this interesting statement, which bears out my contention - 
  Nationalism to-day has none of the great ideals which actuated us during the war period. 
How like the Prime Minister and honorable members opposite that statement is! The trouble with them to-day is that they have none of those things which they call ideals, which helped them during the war period. To-day we are at peace, and the only meaning that can be read into the words I have quoted from the Prime Minister's speech is that honorable members opposite feel that politically they will be in danger unless they can put some issue before the country on which they can appeal to the passions and prejudices of the people. We know that the minds of the people were inflamed during the period of the war. We cannot blame the people for that. They could not view things in their true perspective when their minds were inflamed by passions that are a necessary accompaniment of war. It was by the appeal to passion and prejudice that the Government was able to retain its position on the Treasury bench. But the day of the war has passed, and the Government is now trying to bring about a great industrial dispute in order that at the next elections it may divert the minds of the people from the real issues which will be before them. Among the most interesting features of this debate is the sudden conversion of some honorable members opposite to the principles of trade unionism and arbitration. It was amusing to hear the belated declarations of the honorable members for Wakefield  (Mr. Foster),  Macquarie  (Mr. Manning),Corangamite (Mr. Gibson),  Swan  (Mr. Gregory),  and others in favour of trade unionism and arbitration. The honorable member for Swan was about the most amusing of the lot. I quote him merely because he is typical of others who spoke on the opposite side of the chamber in favour of arbitration, because it now suits their political book to do so. In a lengthy speech he would have us believe that he was the life-long champion of arbitration. He said,"that arbitration laws had been passed and other efforts had been made to improve the conditions of the people, that both National and Labour Governments had by means of arbitrationcourts endeavoured to provide reasonable and proper conditions for the workers, yet there were persons who said that they would not abide by those laws." The honorable member further said - 
This bill should have been introduced months ago. The attitude of those people who endeavoured to get away from the Arbitration Court should not be tolerated any further. The Australian seamen should return to the Arbitration Court, accept its conditions and see that they are observed. 
No one could have spoken with greater fervour on the principles of arbitration than did the honorable member. But compare these remarks of his with what he said when speaking on the Industrial Peace Bill in  1920.  He was speaking then before the conditions which gave rise to this bill had come about. When it suited him to talk from the opposite point of the compass, he had no difficulty whatever in doing so. On that occasion he said - 
We have had compulsory arbitration in this country for a fairly long time. I do not know whether honorable members generally will agree with me, but I am certainly of opinion that the operation of our compulsory arbitration law has been detrimental to the development of this country. I say, without fear of contradiction, that it has helped to embitter the relations between employer and employee. The very operation of our compulsory arbitration law tends to create dissatisfaction and trouble between the two parties in industrial disputes..... For many years in Kalgoorlie there never was an appeal to th« Arbitration Court. The mine managers welcomed the opportunity to make agreements with the Labour organizations. All matters in dispute were settled between the organizations of employers and employees without any appeal to the Arbitration Court. It is only in later days that appeals have been made to the court, and it has given rise to some of the bitter feeling that has grown up. 
The other night the honorable member would have us believe that he had always been the champion of arbitration, yet in  1920  he said, in effect, " Get away from the Arbitration Court to the round-table conference." He should have been the first to condemn the attitude of the Prime Minister, who the other day refused to meet certain people who came before him to ask him to arrange for a round-table conference in order to settle a great industrial dispute threatening the country at the present time. Evidently it did not, suit the political book of the honorable member to do so. He says now, "Get away from the round table and back to the Arbitration Court," yet, in  1920,  he said, " Get away from the Arbitration Court to the round-table conference." When the honorable member was indulging in his tirade of abuse - I can call it nothing else - of the unions, and endeavouring to place on their shoulders the responsibility for all the turmoil in this country, I could not help thinking of his attitude upon another occasion. He painted a pitiful picture of the awful effects caused to the men, women, and children of Australia by disputes which he laid solely at the door of the working classes. For three years I sat with the honorable member on the Public Works Committee, and for the greater part of that time we were investigating a matter that was calculated to have far more dreadful effects on the lives of men, women, and children than anything ever done to them by any industrial dispute. I am speaking of the contract for the building of coffin ships. 
Order! Will the honorable member now confine his remarks more closely to the bill? 
I shall connect them with the bill. The honorable member for Swan says that industrial workers should be deported because of some possible sin committed against the wives and children of this country, yet in regard to. a case in which a crime was committed that might have involved the lives of many innocent men, women, and children going to sea on certain ships, he has never risen in his place to condemn those responsible or to claim that they should be deported. 
 They should not be deported; they should be hanged. 
Does not the honorable member know that the Government not only refused to hang the persons responsible, or even to utter a word of castigation, but paid them  £126,000  for what they did ? . 
The honorable member knows that, although there may be a loose line of connexion between his remarks and the bill, the connexion ought to be definite ; that is to say, he must discuss the bill. 
I bow to your ruling, but I hope that at the proper time the honorable member for Fawkner will have something more to say in regard to the crime I have mentioned, as I  hope myself to have something to say upon it. The real purpose and effect of this bill must be to inflame the passions of the people. It has been frequently said that it will not have a deterrent effect on those who are engaged in industrial disputes. I do not understand why honorable members opposite have not even hinted that the proposed new section Sab should be applied to any one but the workers. 
To all law-breakers. 
I have not heard any supporter of the Government say that it should be applied to any one but the workers. The employers have committed offences that would bring them under this clause. If the bill had been law before the shipping dispute began, it could have been put into operation against the ship-owners, who applied to the Arbitration Court for the deregistration of the Seamen's Union. I recently read an article written by the honorable member for New England  (Mr. Thompson)  in a journal which circulates in his electorate. In that article he did not attempt to conceal his belief that if the bill is passed it will be put into operation against members of the Seamen's Union. 
I have read the article, and in it the honorable member said quite distinctly that the bill would be used against certain members of the Seamen's Union. If honorable members opposite were trying to be fair, they would admit that in the present dispute those responsible were not the members of the Seamen's Union, but the shipowners. 
Does the honorable member consider that the ship-owners should be exempt from the provisions of the bill? 
The honorable member for Forrest  (Mr. Prowse)  evidently does. 
I do not. 
It is clear that the object of the Government is to waste time with legislation which will inflame the minds of the people, while avoiding those contentious questions which create turmoil in its cabinet and caucus meetings. I can imagine what the honorable member for Swan says in a caucus meeting when he finds that the right honorable the Prime Minister has declared on a public platform that the only policy of value to this country is protection. The Prime Minister said it in a hesitating way, for he knew that it would not be endorsed by the honorable member for Swan, the honorable member for Forrest, and other members of the Country party. We could have no greater proof of the fact that the Prime Minister wishes to divert the minds of the people from the sins of the Government than the disappointment shown by him the other day when a partial settlement of the shipping dispute was reached. According to statements in the press, the Prime Minister demanded from the manager of the Commonwealth Government Line an explanation of why he had signed an agreement with the union, and obviously the right honorable gentleman was very angry with the members of the board controlling that line. The dispute will provide a very useful lesson. For as long as I can remember, the causes of industrial disputes have always been laid by honorable members opposite at the door of the Labour party. The shipping dispute should disprove that charge, because it can safely be said that if  Sir George  Fuller, instead of  Mr. Lang,  had been Premier of New South Wales, there would not have been even a partial settlement of it, and it is safe to say also that if the honorable member for Hunter  (Mr. Charlton)  had been leading this Government when overtures were made by the Seamen's Union, a roundtable conference, such as the honorable member for Swan believed in in 1920, would have been arranged, and the same result would have been obtained as was obtained by  Mr. Lang  in Sydney. The remedy for industrial disputes in this country is to sweep the Nationalists from the Treasury benches and to put Labour into power. 

 Sitting suspended from6.3O to 8 p.m. 

The circumstances surrounding the latest industrial turmoil in Australia effectively dispose of the contention of our opponents who for years have been making political capital out of industrial disputes and using them as an argument for keeping the Labour party out of office. They seek to give the impression to those who do not take a very great interest in politics that there is more likelihood of industrial peace throughout the Commonwealth when a. Nationalist Government is in office than when Labour is in power, but our latest experience effectively dispels such a contention. Only the other day the Prime Minister  (Mr Bruce)  slammed the door in the face of certain delegates who came to Melbourne to ask him to assist in restoring peace in connexion with the shipping dispute. On the other hand the Labour Premier of New South Wales  (Mr. Lang)  brought representatives of the Commonwealth Shipping Line and of the Seamen's Union together and in a little while their differences were settled. The only logical conclusion to be drawn from such an incident is that with a Federal Labour Government and Labour Governments in all the states industrial turmoil would cease. 
Give the men everything they ask? 
That may be the honorable member's conclusion. It is interesting to note the words of Rear-Admiral Clarkson,  chairman  of the Commonwealth Shipping Board, who in a letter to the Premier of. New South Wale3 said - 
. I regret that at the moment I am unable to give you any assurance that the Steamship Owners Federation will agree to any clause giving the late award a place in the articles. My board wishes to thank you very sincerely for the action you have taken to bring about a settlement of this difficult situation, and trust that your efforts will be the means of bringing in a new era of industrial peace in Australia. 
That is a confirmation of the only conclusion at which one can arrive in regard to the shipping dispute, which is typical of others, and to which this measure would also apply. The attitude of the Prime Minister is in striking contrast to that of the Premier of New South Wales. In effect the Prime Minister said, "We do not want peace; we want war." 
War to the knife. 
War to the knife. I would remind the House of the right honorable gentleman's memorable speech at Geelong in which he said that to-day the Nationalist party has no great ideal such as it had in war time. We are, therefore, to assume that the ideals of the Nationalist party are incubated in times of war or during industrial turmoil. 
Who said that? 
The Prime Minister. Consequently the only conclusion to be drawn is that the right honorable gentleman and those supporting him realize that their only hope is in appealing to the passions and prejudices of the people. They do not want peace, but turmoil. The only effective way of disposing of conditions such as now exist is to place a Labour Government in power which would do in the federal sphere what has been done by a Labour Premier in New South Wales. If the Commonwealth Government Shipping Line had been developed as it would have been under a Labour Government not only would this dispute have been settled more expeditiously but our primary producers and those who had produce to ship would not have been placed at the mercy of the shipping combine as they had been- 
The honorable member must confine himself more strictly to the bill. 
I shall now refer to the argument used by  practically  nine-tenths of honorable members opposite who have spoken  on the second reading of this bill, and who have said that this measure will strike at those people to whom they refer as communists. They have said that they do not wish to interfere with the rights of trade unionists. The most amusing of the speeches by honorable . members opposite was that of the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr. Gibson)  who, in denying that the bill was a blow at trade unionism, said that the object of the bill was to deport those who are killing trade unionism and the Labour movement. After giving utterance to that expression, the Postmaster-General suddenly ' collapsed. I suppose he pictured himself running around some of the outback places in the Corangamite electorate with a drawn dagger looking for the avowed enemies of the Labour movement, and the picture was too much for him. 
Why would he not get rid of these " enemies of Labour " in the same way that he would at one time have got rid of the profiteers? 
The Postmaster-General told us on one occasion that from an upstairs window in this building, facing westwards, he could shoot those enemies of the people, who are more responsible for industrial turmoil than are trade unionists. The honorable gentleman, however, under the influence of those by whom he is now surrounded, has forgotten all about the profiteers, and is looking for other enemies. 
The honorable member should quote me correctly. 
I do not wish to do the Minister an injustice. I am quoting from his speech in  Hansard. 
That incident has been quoted on many- occasions, and sometimes incorrectly. 
As I have stated, nine-tenths of those honorable members opposite who have spoken have referred to the bogy of communism or bolshevism, which, as the honorable member for Yarra  (Mr. Scullin)  said, was for twenty years spoken of as socialism. After the New South Wales elections the honorable member for Kooyong  (Mr. Latham),  in delivering a speech at one of those interesting little gatherings in which the ladies of his electorate indulge, said - 
The Nationalist party will not gain anything by attacking Labour tor its association with communists. The result of the New South Wales election reveals the fact that the number of communists in Australia is negligible. 
Honorable members on this side of the chamber have repeatedly pointed out that this talk of communism is a bogy, a scarecrow - used by the Government to divert the attention of people from its sins of omission and commission. The honorable member for Kooyong has said that the attack on Labour must be based on something else; that this cry will not serve their purpose. It has already been mentioned that the- total votes of those supporting the communistic candidates, who bitterly opposed the Labour party at the New South Wales elections, numbered only 800. I commend' to the honorable member for Indi  (Mr. Cook),  the honorable member for Forrest  (Mr. Prowse),  and the honorable member for Swan  (Mr. Gregory)  the utterances of their associate, the honorable member for Kooyong, in connexion with this matter. The Government has evidently brought in this bill in a vain attempt to restore its lost prestige. The bill fails in the very object for which ifr has been introduced, and will do more to damage the Government in the eyes of the people than any of its past actions. This proposed legislation strikes a blow at a fundamental principle of British liberty - the right of an accused person to trial by a jury. The offence for which industrialists are to be liable to deportation is that they shall have the temerity to say what they will charge for their labour. The PostmasterGeneral and others sitting with him have at times expressed themselves strongly regarding those people who make undue profits from the sale of commodities, but the drastic penalties to be provided for industrialists who dare to go on strike are not to apply to those persons. The man who has, as it were, only his flesh and blood  - his labour - to sell, is to be deported without first being tried by a jury. It remained for the present Government to strike this drastic blow at a principle of British liberty of which we so often boast. 
, - My contribution to this debate will not be long. I should have thought that the speech of the Prime Minister, when he moved the second reading of the bill, would have left no doubt in the mind of any rational person as to the intention and application of the bill; but, for some reason best known to themselves, honorable members on the other side have deemed it politic to endeavour to throw dust in the eyes of the people, and particularly of unionists, as to its real purpose, scope, and application. Any doubt as to the intention behind the bill, which was not dispelled by the lucid speech of the Prime Minister, should have disappeared after the honorable member for Kooyong  (Mr. Latham)  had spoken. The honorable member analyzed carefully the provisions of the bill, and explained the reasons for its introduction. Opposition members, in a strenuous effort to camouflage the real purpose of the bill, have presented to us what are really the distorted fantasies of their fevered imaginations. Let us consider for a moment the real purpose underlying this bill. In our midst there is a body of men, mostly foreigners, who are utterly unable to appreciate the advantages of the freedom which they enjoy in Australia, or the benefits conferred on them by those democratic institutions under which they live in this country - a country in which 95 per cent, of the voters can, by no stretch of imagination, be described as belonging to the capitalistic class. Numbers of undesirables from other countries have found in Australia a safe refuge, but they are so little appreciative of the benefits which they enjoy that they have no hesitation whatever in taking advantage of their freedom to proclaim te the world their intention to disrupt the entire fabric of society.  They are not only opposed to the employers .in our midst, whom they describe as capitalists or exploiters of the workers, but their hand is against every person in the community who does not accept their crude and fantastic ideas. Their intention is to destroy society  and that not by constitutional means, but by force: Against the activities of those mischievous elements in our community this measure is directed. The first portion of the bill should have been in operation many years ago, when Canada and the United States of America were deporting undesirables who had been creating strife in their territory, and threatening the destruction of society there. New Zealand, realizing the situation, took steps to prevent their entry into her territory, with the result that many who had sought a landing there continued their voyage to Sydney, and were admitted to Australia without any questions being asked. It was only when, having permeated the industrial organizations of this country, they put into operation their declared intention nf " white anting " them, and taking the control out of the hands of those who governed them, that they came to be recognized as a real menace. While it is true that their numbers are comparatively small, we must remember that, as one bad apple in a case, if not removed early, will soon cause the whole to rot, or as one case of small-pox in a community of one million people, if not at once isolated and dealt with, will soon decimate the entire population, so will these forces, if not checked, undermine society. 
Why not vaccinate them? 
--The object of the bill is to prevent their coming here, so that they shall not be able to disseminate their poison in our midst. They may be said to be affected with politico-economic small-pox; and their influence upon the rising generation,  and  particularly upon unthinking and unformed minds, is harmful. Let us con sider for a moment what is the nature of the doctrines that these people advocate, and then leave it to honorable members opposite to say whether they approve of those doctrines, or whether we on this side are not right in our contention that these people have no real place in the life of Australia, and cannot possibly be assimilated. They boast that they recognize no allegiance to any country. At the revolutionary activities of those types of immigrants the bill is aimed. Paragraph c of sub-clause 1 of proposed new section 3k proposes to exclude people who are deemed unlikely to become readily assimilated or to assume the duties and responsibilities of Australian citizenship within a reasonable time after their entry. while sub-clause  gd  of clause 3 applies to- - any person who advocates the overthrow by force or violence of the established government of the Coin,monwealth or of any state, or of any other civilized country, or of all forms of law,  or  who advocates the abolition of organized government, or who advocates the assassination of public officials, or who advocates or teaches the unlawful destruction of property, or who is a member, or affiliated with, any organization which entertains and teaches any' of the doctrines and practices specified in this paragraph. 
That exactly describes the people to  whom  I have referred; they are against every person in the community, whether he be a capitalist, a trade unionist, or a nonunionist. Instead of being fearful that this legislation will result in injury to trade unionism, every unionist in Australia should thank the Government for having had the courage to introduce this measure, and thus to save his organization from ultimate extinction. In a statement issued last June by the Communist Party in Sydney the following appears1 - 
We believe that there can be no improvement in the lives of the workers until they take power in their own hands. The workers must, first of all, expropriate the big capitalists, the big financiers, land-owners, and industrialists. The small property owners they can leave alone until their forces are stronger. But all large property must  be  confiscated at once without compensation, since to buy out the capitalists, whoso power is money, is only to leave them in power. 
It will be seen that not only do these people aim at the large capitalist, but that their efforts are directed against every property owner, including every working mau who owns a cottage, or is purchasing a home for himself and family. Nor must we lose sight of the fact that every man who has a shilling in the savings bank is a capitalist who, with every succeeding deposit, is endeavouring to make himself a bigger capitalist. An examination of many so-called capitalistic concerns reveals the fact that the majority of the shareholders are men of small means, and members of the working class. 
Will the honorable member show me the relevance of his remarks to the matter before us? 
Certainly ; they have reference to the very object of the bill itself. This bill is aimed at the checking of the destructive activities of the type of person to whom I have referred, who are a. danger, not only to unionists, but also to the whole community, their purpose being to overthrow, by force or violence, constitutional government. Because of their activities this bill is necessary. The first part is designed to exclude from admission into Australia, the second part to provide for their expropriation after they have become a menace here. Members of the Opposition have endeavoured to make it appear that instead of this legislation being directed against these mischievous foreign agents, it is intended as a blow at trade unionism. The statement by the Communist party, to which I have referred, also affirms that - 
It must establish a state monopoly of foreign trade. 
It must annul all debts, public and private. 
It must take immediate steps to meet the housing shortage by rationing the existing accommodation among the population. 
How is it proposed to bring about this change? Certainly not by parliamentary or constitutional methods, but by a programme of action, which is set out in what is termed the  Communists' Secret Bible,  some extracts from which were published in the London  Morning Post  in February of last year. These tactics were embodied in a thesis contributed to that paper and accepted as the policy of action of the party at the last Lambeth Conference - 
Thebasis of tactics .... is direct action of revolutionary masses and their organizations against capitalism. The gains of the workers are in proportion to the degree of direct action and revolutionary activity of the masses. By " direct action " we mean all forms of direct pressure of the workers upon the employers and the state; boycott, strike, street demonstrations, seizure of factories, uprisings, and other revolutionary activity which tend to unite the working class in the fight for socialism. 
And so on. Further translations deal with the means by which the communists are to endeavour to seduce the military and naval forces, and also other practical elements of society. With regard to the deportation provisions of the bill, whilst I propose to vote for the second reading of the measure, I cannot say with the honorable member for Indi  (Mr. Cook)  that I shall do so with pleasure. On the contrary, I shall vote for it with very great reluctance, and only because present conditions make a measure of this kind necessary. It will be seen, however, by reference to the bill, that before any person can be deported certain action must be taken by the authorities. This point has been entirely overlooked by honorable members, whether inadvertently or deliberately I am unable to say. If they examine the proposed new section 8aa they will find this provision - 
If at any time the GovernorGeneral is of opinion that there exists in Australia a serious industrial disturbance prejudicing or threatening the peace, order, or good government of the Commonwealth, he may make a proclamation to that effect, which proclamation shall be and remain in force for the purposes of this section until it is revokedby the Governor -General. 
This presupposes that before a proclamation is issued it must be patent to all that there is threatening the peace, order, or good government of the country a condition of affairs of so seriousa nature as to justify its issue by the GovernorGeneral. Sub-section 2 of the proposed new section states - 
When any suchproclamation is in force, the Minister, if he is satisfied that any person not born in Australia hasbeen concerned in Australia in acts directed towards hindering or obstructing, to the prejudice of the public, the transport of goods or the conveyance of passengers in relation to trade or commerce with other countries or among the states, or the provision of services by any department or public authority of the Commonwealth, and that the presence of that person in Australia will be injurious to the peace, order, or good government of the Commonwealth in relation to matters with respect to which the Parliament has power to make laws, may, by notice in writing, summon the person to appear before a board at the time specified in the summons and in the manner prescribed to show cause why he should not be deported from the Commonwealth. 
The proclamation will apply to persons not born in Australia who may act to the serious prejudice of the people, and whose presence in the Commonwealth is deemed to be injurious to the welfare of the Commonwealth. This provision refers not to any particular class of person, but to "any" person. It is certainly not directed at trade unionists any more than at any other section of the community. I feel, with other honorable members, that a great deal depends upon the constitution of the board, and that the greatest care will have to be exercised so that the board may inspire the confidence of all sections of the people. No government, whether drawn from the ranks of the Nationalist, Labour, or any other political party, would attempt to put into force any order for deportation, unless it had the force of public opinion behind it. That is the great safeguard against deportation. Personally, I am not keen upon deportation, as it may tend to the creation of fictitious martyrs, and evoke a spurious sympathy with the deportees. I would prefer a different plan. We have before us a very great problem in the settlement of the Northern Territory, and I suggest that the extremists might try their communism there. The enthusiasm and fanaticism of people who hold communistic views cannot be doubted. Probably they sincerely believe the doctrine which they are endeavouring to promulgate amongst the people. I would not interfere with their activities or their freedom of speech if they did not advocate recourse to force and a total disregard of constituted authority. If by constitutional means they could convince the majority of the electors that their policy was right, they would be entitled to give it a trial. If they can persuade people to accept such an outlandish doctrine, and if they really believe that it will mean the salvation of the workers and lead to the millenium, let them collect all their forces, whether few or great, throughout Australia, establish a new state in the Northern Territory, and show the world what may be done there. We have in settled Australia the widest franchise in the world, and the voting power is in the hands of the great masses. So there is no need for violent coercive action. Ill-advised communistic enthusiasts over a quarter of a century ago set out with high hopes to establish a new colony in South America. They came back thoroughly disillusioned., Russia, more recently, has tried to set the rest of the world an example, and we know what a terrible failure it has proved. Let these enthusiasts who, by disseminating this false doctrine in our midst, are disturbing industry, trade, and commerce, take their courage in both hands, and go into the Northern Territory to show the world what can be done. There they will have no bloated capitalists to bar the way, nor will they be troubled by a complex system of production and exchange. Starting off from scratch, they will have a good opportunity to demonstrate the success of their theories. Their success would mean such an object-lesson to the rest of Australia that they need have no fear then as to the acceptance of their doctrines in the rest of Australia. 
.- " History repeats itself." " There are  spots  on the sun." " Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty." 
Seven wealthy towns contend for Homer dead, 
Through which the living Homer begged his bread.  " Laws are chains for the poor man, cobwebs for the rich." If thy brother offend thee, forgive him " until seventy times seven." These,  Mr. Speaker,  are what I would like you to understand- 
 Are the text. 
As the honorable the Postmaster-General has interjected, they may be regarded as the text for the few remarks which I am about to make concerning this bill. I give them because I really think they are accepted by all. In quoting them, I have said something already which will be accepted by my honorable friends opposite, even if they do not agree with the rest of my remarks. I may add that I should like to recite those very fine lines called " Not Understood." 
I do not think the honorable member would be inorder. 
The lines are quite in order,  Mr. Speaker;  but if I would be out of order in quoting them, I  will spare honorable members. But perhaps you will allow me to quote the lines most appropriate to my remarks. 
I shall judge when I hear them. 
"O God! that men would see a little clearer." That will be sufficient. I should also like to remind my honorable friends opposite of two other fine pieces of poetry, not quite so fashionable just now, "The Song, of the Shirt," by Thomas Hood, and lines, " The Cry of the Children," by Elizabeth Barrett Browning. Honorable members opposite profess not to understand the reasons why the Labour party opposes this Bill. I do not think that I have heard any debate in which they have expressed to such an extent as in this case their inability to understand the reason for our opposition. This is not so much an immigration as an emigration bill, for the whole debate seems to have centred round the compulsory emigration clauses. After all, it seems to me not so important that the Government should bring down these restrictive clauses as it is that the administration by Ministers themselves should be efficient. I pointed out in this chamber some time ago that great inefficiency was shown in the management of immigration affairs, and that there was a grave danger of admitting mental defectives. I showed how, during the regime of this Government, a mental defective had been admitted into the country, and in my own electorate had committed a diabolical act on a child of five years of age. I might add that one of the last acts of another Nationalist Government, which recently went out of office in New South "Wales, was to liberate that man after he had served one year and nine months of his sentence- to liberate him again, not upon this society, but upon the society of the Old World, which should really be of equal importance to us in this ' regard. I also draw attention again to the startling facts which I recently gave concerning two notable families in the United States of America - the dreadful number of mental defectives that had descended from them, and the enormous cost they had been to the government of that country. These facts have been added to by the recent cases in New Zealand. I have no doubt that Ministers have had their attention drawn to this danger, and it should not be necessary to emphasize the desirability of keeping, mentally defective persons out of Australia. I come now to that part of the bill around which the greater part of the debate has raged - the compulsory emigration clauses. I think that I can understand the inability of honorable members opposite to appreciate the reasons for Labour's opposition to the bill. One reason for our opposition to it is that the great body of workers in Australia known as the trade unions are emphatically opposed to it. 
Perhaps they do not understand it. 
Let me assure my honorable friend that members of the trade unions have a very keen appreciation of the economic position, and I could produce thousands of unionists who could furnish the honorable member with a most apt reply to his idea of segregating some of them in a particular part of Australia. 
I am referring to this bill. 
They  quite  understand the bill, too, and the danger threatened to the whole of the trade union movement, for it is a direct challenge to trade unionism. It has been called by the Prime Minister emergency legislation. Although it has been inferred by many in this House that the measure is directed only against a particular section of unionists, the gun is really levelled at the whole movement. If the Government intends this legislation to be directed only against a particular section, an awful mistake has been committed by them in making it appear to be directed against the whole movement. Why should one section suffer for the alleged misdeeds of the whole? I am afraid that the movement is not understood by honorable members opposite, any more than is our opposition to the bill, because they have not had the privilege of assembling with trade unionists generally. We hear them declare that they are not opposed to the principles of trade unionism, but I point out that the mere mental acceptance of trade unionism is not sufficient. Seeing that the movement has so woven itself into the social and industrial life of the community, it is. essential that the Government and their followers should thoroughly understand it. It is necessary to study the whole spirit of the Labour cause in order to understand our opposition to the bill; to inquire how and where the trade union movement originated, and to consider what it has done for the workers of Australia as well as for those of other countries. I should like to take a glance at it, because it seems to me that this is a challenge to the whole' trade union movement. Any person looking at society with a critical eye must have agreed that if the conditions existing in Great Britain within the memory of living men had gone on as they were after the introduction of the present economic and industrial system without a corrective being found, society would have degenerated to a level much below that of the most savage races on the earth to-day. I need not dilate upon those black  pages  in British history and dwell upon the bent forms of the men and the emaciated bodies of the women and children that were to be seen in factories in the Old Country. Those melancholy conditions are depicted in the literature and art of the period. If honorable members opposite do not wish to see them there, they have only to go to the blue-books of the times to find them in black and white. Those conditions have obtained even in Australia, although to a less degree, certainly, because industries have not grown to such a magnitude here as- in Great Britain. But,  Mr. Speaker,  a corrective was found, and it expresses itself to-day in the trade union movement. It has done much for industrial society in the Old Country, and particularly in Australia. Wherever the growth of the movement has been most rapid, the results have been most effective, and I think they have been more rapid and thorough in Australia than elsewhere. These good results honorable members opposite cannot deny; they profess, of course, to accept them. They have meant a raising of the wages of the workers in general, and an improvement in their working conditions. The tone of the whole community, ethically,  morally and physically, has been raised. When members of the Country party talk about the home market being their best market, let- them remember that the value of that market is due to the consuming capacity of our people being great on account of the progress of the trade union movement. The best thing those honorable members can do in the interests of the primary producers is to refrain from belittling this movement. 
We have never done so. 
That answer has always been given from the very initiation of the trade union movement. When its pioneers sought to improve the workers' conditions, the reply was, "We are in sympathy with you, but, unfortunately, economic doctrines prevent us from assisting you." Economic arguments, and everything in the intellectual line, even the Darwinian theory, were raked up to prevent the workers obtaining decent conditions, and to-day one hears the same old cries. If members of the Country party have not opposed us, they have not remained passive, for they - or, at any rate, the party behind which they stand - has at all times opposed the principles espoused by Labour. Instead of belittling trade unionism, instead of advertising throughout the world, that Australia has been ruined by trade unionism, they should let it be known that trade unionism has been the salvation of this country. Instead of being negligent of the international Labour conference, the Country party should recognize and make known the fact that the improved conditions of the workers have enabled them to be greater consumers than formerly of the primary products of Australia, and they should advise the people of other countries to adopt the same standard of wages and conditions as are enjoyed by workers in Australia, and thus increase the markets for primary products. But, blinded as they are to the necessity of improving the conditions of the workers, one cannot expect them to cast their bread upon the waters in the hope that it will return to them after many days. The success of this move- . ment is due to the workers themselves, to their system of intense organization, and to their determination to stand together in the face of spurious economic doctrines which were always written for a purpose. They determined that the work of man should have more recognition than some purely abstract doctrine, and they have shown for their cause and ideals a loyalty and devotion, and a readiness to sacrifice themselves, which I think has not been excelled, if equalled, by the devotees of any other cause. One of the guiding principles of unionism has always been "our union, right or wrong." Experience has shown unionists that only by acting on that principle can they attain their end. If our country is involved in war, we are apt to forget the real and immediate issue, and accept the dictum, " My country, right or wrong." In the same way, the experience of the unionist compels him to accept and follow the advice of his leaders. I do not know whether honorable members will admit that, but they should not forget that unionists know their industrial history. They know that in past times the state has done nothing for them, that during the whole of the black period of the beginning of their movement the state did nothing for them, and that all the advantages they now enjoy in the shape of better industrial conditions, higher wages, and shorter hours have been secured through the work and instrumentality of the unions. We cannot condemn the unionist if, seeing that his union is so close to him, and has won for him such benefits, he at times puts it before his state. Personally, I agree that it is rather to be regretted that there should be a conflict between loyalty to a union and loyalty to a state. That conflict hasat times occurred, and has resulted in disaster to the unions and temporary disaster to the state; but I think no unionist can be blamed for it in the circumstances. Devotion to their organizations has been the cause of suffering to unionists in times of crisis. Honorable members, if they knew their political and industrial history, would agree with me that the records of leaders of race and religion are not greater or more to be admired than the records of the leaders of the cause and ideals of unionism throughout the world. I think that, although their graves may be more obscure, and they may not be sung in poetry or music, they are equally worthy of our admiration. All that I have referred to has been done in spite of the opposition of those who have on every occasion been opposed to every movement for the betterment of the workers' conditions. Those who have represented the same political thought as honorable members on the other side have always been opposed to them, although they have eventually had to confess that the Labour movement has been one for the benefit, not of the individual, but. the whole race. One of the Prime Ministers of Great Britain - the late W. E. Gladstone - on a certain occasion, after showing opposition to measures of this kind, said something like this, "We should reflect that in nearly all the political controversies of the last 30 years the wealthy class, the leisured class, and the titled class have been wrong. It is well to remember that it is to the common man of the ordinary working class we are indebted to-day for almost all the political reforms which are now accepted by the world." 
They hadto suffer for it. 
Mr.F. McDONALD.- As the honorable member says, they had to suffer for it. Some of them suffered the extreme penalty. Many of them suffered deportation to this land, and many suffered in other ways. But the tribute I have recalled was paid to them, and when so much was done by the people of those days with their limited opportunities, we need not wonder that so much has been done in Australia, where the people have had better opportunities. Since our industrial and political history shows that what has been obtained by the worker hasbeen in spite of what has been said by honorable members opposite, or those who think with them, is it likely that to-day, when the Government introduces this bill and honorable members opposite profess to be the friends of trade unionism, those in the trade union movement will not understand or will believe their professions? They understand only too well, because their history shows them that- on every occasion when they have trusted the anti-Labour section they have been disappointed and deceived. Look right down the corridors of history and I challenge honorable members opposite to point to any occasion when the antiLabour forces have done anything at all to better the conditions of the worker or to improve the trade union movement. Can honorable members give me any instance of the kind ? I do not think they can. 
This is their opportunity. 
This is their opportunity, as the honorable member says. If they are able to point to any occasion upon which they have been the friends of the trade union movement or have tried to promote its advance, in their party or from their political platforms, let them speak now or for ever hold their peace. 
Does the honorable member think that under our democratic form of government any government would be likely to abuse the power provided for in this bill ? 
That is the very point to which the trade union movement is directing its attention at the present time - Can we trust the present Government to use the very wide powers which this bill proposes to' give them? 
Those in the Labour movement may know nothing personally of honorable members opposite, but the whole history of their movement shows that no national government and no anti-labour government can be trusted. The very recent history of New South Wales shows that while a national government was asking the trade unionists to fraternize with it, it was preparing to disappoint and deceive them. Honorable members do not deny that there was recently in New South. Wales a Labour government. The Nationalist party, desirous of getting into office, induced its one-time opponents to fraternize with it. It said to the trade unionists, "Vote for us and we shall guarantee not in any way to alter your conditions in regard to wages and length of working hours." The trade unionists to a very large extent accepted the promise, fraternized with the Nationalists and placed them in power. But no sooner was the Nationalist party in power than it reduced the wages and lengthened the hours of the workers, after making the solemn promise not to do so from every hustings in New South Wales. I understand that the Federal and State Nationalist parties are one, and cannot honorable members understand that with such experience on the part of the trade unionists of New South 
Wales they will not take any notice at all of promises made by honorable members on the other side. 
They have always been backed up by performances. 
They were not backed up by performances in the instance I have mentioned, but by deception. No matter how anxious honorable members opposite may be personally to keep the word they give in this House to-night we know that the charge they often bring against us of being coerced by outsiders to take certain action applies with greater force to themselves. 
The charge of not being free agents. 
Just so. Honorable members opposite should be prepared to admit that that charge which they bring against us can with very much better reason be levelled against themselves, and no matter what they may personally desire to do in this connexion, they will not be permitted to follow the dictates of their own conscience. They may not do so to the same extent as honorable members on this side, because within our conferences different views are freely expressed by members of our party. 
Is the honorable member in favour of deportation ? 
I was not in favour of it this morning, but, having listened to so many irrelevant interjections from honorable members opposite, I am beginning to favour it. I was showing that trade unionists cannot trust the promises of anti-Labour people. Let me give honorable members another instance connected with the one I have mentioned. A little while ago the Nationalists throughout New South Wales asked for the support of another large section of people, who in a way cannot be called trade unionists, inasmuch as they are not affiliated with the great Labour movement, but who have a registered association or union. I refer to the. teachers of New South Wales, the great body of workers with whom I was closely associated before I entered this Parliament. I suppose that they are the most hardworking body and the body most loyal to their work in New South Wales. For many years under the old principles which honorable members opposite espouse - freedom of contract, and so on - they suffered very severely. At last, by persistence and the worth of their  cause they obtained the right to go to the Arbitration Court to have their wages fixed in order that they might not be any longer dependent upon the whim of a penurious Treasurer. The moment the Nationalist Government got into power in New South Wales it took away that right from the teachers after protesting from every platform that no section of the people would be deprived of it. 
Will the honorable member now come back to the question before the House ? 
Mr.F. McDONALD.- I did not think that it would be necessary for me to move to get back to the question, because I thought I was right on it. 
The honorable member has walked wide of the line for several minutes. 
Then I shall endeavour to retrace my steps. 
History has a habit of repeating itself, and it is because the great trade union movement knows that eternal vigilance is the price of freedom that it is so vigilant regarding the deportation clauses of this bill, which it believes to be directly aimed against it. Whilst all that I have said has been done by the trade union movement, I will not for a moment contend that it has made no mistakes. Very serious mistakes have been made - but there are spots on the sun. Errors of judgment have been made, but we should remember that, after all, the industrial battle is as keen as the military battle. The right honorable member for North Sydney  (Mr.. Hughes),  in one of his celebrated writings, said - 
Many more are doomed upon the industrial field to death than are doomed upon the military field. The slaughter on the military field is nothing compared to the slaughter in the industrial field, and the suffering in the one is nothing compared to the suffering in the other. 
The right honorable gentleman knew a great deal on this subject, although he is not to-day on this side of the House, and perhaps will not be on this side to-morrow. 
 Thank God for that ! 
The honorable member says " Thank God for that," and. while that may be so, I think I should say that while the right honorable "member for North Sydney was in the Labour movement, and held the views which we hold to-day, he rendered very great service to the trade union movement. Of course honorable members opposite, and people elsewhere who hold similar views to them, claim that they are largely responsible for the growth of trade unionism. After decades of opposition, they have come down to our way of thinking, and have assisted us, they say, in building up this splendid edifice. But if they are really in earnest in assisting the Labour movement, they should not be introducing a bill which proposes a complete change of system, and which is really a new gun trained on the foremost trench of trade unionism. Decade after decade trade unions have been slowly advancing trench by trench, sometimes gaining and holding on, and sometimes being repulsed. 
 Mr. Walsh  has been the man behind the gun all the time. 
The honorable member may know more about  Mr. Tom  Walsh than I do. 
 Speaking for Tasmania, we know nothing but the effect of the gun. 
I agree with my friend that Tasmania has sometimes suffered from mistakes which I admit have been made, but if the honorable member looks at to-day's paper he will see that the tradeunionists are so moderate that they declare that if they should be obliged to take certain action to secure their rights they will still maintain a continuous shipping service for Tasmania. They are very much more conciliatory in that regard than are honorable membersopposite. 
 How long would that service be maintained ? 
I am not in a position to speak for the trade union movement in that respect. Our justifiable suspicion that this bill is but another move directed against the whole trade union movement is sufficient ground for our opposition to its deportation clauses. Trade unionists can see in these provisions a means by which a Government. if it likes, may deport their leaders. The honorable member for Reid  (Mr. Coleman)  asked the Prime Minister if he would deport a shipping magnate. The right honorable gentleman avoided the question to a certain extent by saying that the bill will apply equally to all citizens who break the law. We know that while the union leaders may easily be deported, all. the shareholders or directors of a company  could not very well be treated in the same way, and that even if one or two directors were deported their agents would still remain behind to carry on the practices for which the directors were responsible. Therefore, the punishment will be unequal. No bill should discriminate in this way. 
Another objection we have to the bill is that action is proposed to be taken in a way quite contrary to what we have always believed in, and that is in regard to the tracing and punishment of an offender. A court is to be set up which will have no resemblance to a court of justice such .as we know in Australia, or such as is known in every part of the British Empire. It will, have no resemblance to anything we have known in the past, unless it be the Star Chamber. It will be a political court, because it will be composed of the nominees of a political party, whether it be National or Labour. The procedure will not safeguard the person charged. It will not assure to him a fair trial, or justice, as justice is administered in Australia. I do not think honorable members opposite will challenge that statement. It is a very serious objection to the bill. 
Are the judges political ? 
If a judge is appointed temporarily to preside over these proceedings it will be a political appointment. In any case there will be two laymen on the board, and I suppose that the majority will prevail. The majority, in any case, may consist of the two laymen. If the Government is anxious to set up a judicial body, why does it -not appoint three judges ? The procedure of this court will be quite apart from the ordinary legal process we have known for the last 100 years. Honorable members opposite have scorned the mention of Magna Charta in relation to this matter, but Magna Charta laid down a principle of British justice which has not been departed from during all the centuries, except in the . case of tyrannical governments. Honorable members- opposite would depart from that principle, and set up a court which does not safeguard the rights of the accused. We have to remember that the temper and spirit of the trade unionism of Australia are no strong and so much to be admired that if the great body of trade unionists think that one of their leaders is suffering on their account, and is in the right, and if they find that he is deported, the whole of the movement throughout Australia will be aroused in opposition to the Government. I do not think that even honorable members of the present Government would like to see that happen. No one who knows anything about Australia and the spirit of the trade union movement would want to bring it into conflict with the industries of the Commonwealth. 
Thus' we object- to this bill, because it discriminates between one section and another, and because it is not to be carried out with the ordinary legal process. The trade union movement objects to this big gun being trained upon it. At any rate, this is not the time to have big guns trained on any section of the community. These are not the days of force. Honorable members opposite profess to believe in the settlement of international disputes by means of conciliation. 
And arbitration. 
We have in Australia today a dispute which is something like an .industrial conflict, but what evidence have honorable members opposite given that they want to have it settled by means of conciliation ? A little while ago a deputation representing a large section of the trade union movement in New South Wales came to Melbourne to see the Prime Minister. They came to say to him.' " Let us sit around a table and reason about this matter. Let us talk with one another and see if it cannot be settled." Did the Prime Minister show himself to be in favour of conciliation? It is reported that metaphorically he slammed the door in their faces, and said, in effect, that there was to be no conciliation in this matter, and that- he wanted a fight to a finish. Such was his answer to those who wanted the matter settled in a conciliatory "way. On the other hand, a very large section of the trade union movement has shown itself to be prepared to settle the matter by means of conciliation or arbitration. When the Prime Minister refused to entertain the idea, the deputation returned to Sydney, where the Premier of the state  (Mr. Lang)  set about doing what the Prime Minister had refused to do. He called a conference, and with one section, at least, of. the shipping industry the strike was settled on just terms to the satisfaction of both parties.When this was done we expected to see the papers filled with telegrams of congratulation sent by the Prime Minister to unionists and  Mr. Lang.  But I have not yet seen those telegrams, nor heard of any jubilations. On the contrary - I speak subject to correction - a newspaper did report a telegram which the Prime Minister was supposed to have sent to the Shipping Board asking it to explain the extraordinary action it had taken in settling the shipping dispute by means of conciliation. 
Those are the honorable member's words, and not the wording of the telegram. 
I say that I am open to correction. I have seen it in one of the papers. 
The Prime Minister has already given it a denial. 
If that is so, I am sorry that I have made a mistake. I do not wish to make an accusation which is untrue against the right honorable gentleman. I do not know the facts, and I accepted as truth what was printed in one of the Melbourne papers. In any case, my leader has just reminded me that the Prime Minister has asked for a report from the Shipping Board. Instead of sending a telegram of congratulation, the Prime Minister was evidently anxious to know more about the matter. He certainly was not as pleased with the settlement of the dispute as we thought he would be. The trade union movement has shown that it wants the matter settled by means of conciliation. This bill is by no means a conciliatory measure.It is an irritating measure. It is designed as a threat against the whole trade union movement. If it is emergency legislation, as the Prime Minister in his speech said it was intended to be, I want to know why it was not aimed against that section of the trade unions which has been irritating the Government, instead of being so designed that it may be used at any time against the whole of the trade union movement? It was a dreadful mistake, and the Government cannot expect the trade unions, with a full knowledge of history, to accept his assurance, and that of his supporters, that this is a gentle and innocuous bill. History has shown them that they cannot by any means accept those statements. 
Much more might have been done to consult the members of these unions. Knowing the condition of industry in Australia to-day, I think that no greater crime could be committed than to neglect to take action to settle a threatened industrial dispute of such magnitude. If it is possible to settle the dispute by conciliation, and if the Government refuses to adopt that means of settlement and thereby involves the whole of Australia in an appalling industrial disturbance, no greater crime could be committed against Australia. The right honorable the Prime Minister was to a certain extent correct whenhe said that although people talk of his responsibilities in the settlement of strikes, a greater responsibility rests upon the leaders of industry on both sides. One side in this dispute has shown to the right honorable gentleman that it accepts that great responsibility, and is prepared to make every endeavour to save Australia from being involved in this conflict; but he refused to do his part, and, so far as we can see, his Government is doing nothing to avert this disaster. 
The bill is an irritating measure, which is calculated to inflame all trade unionists. The Prime Minister is making a dreadful mistake. Can he not see that even if the trade unionists are acting wrongly, their loyalty and devotion to their own movement, and their capacity to sacrifice themselves for their fellows, show that there is much good in them, rough though their exteriors may be? If anything can be done, it should be done to show them that, af ter all, the welfare of the state and the nation is of more importance to them and to us all than the welfare of any union. If they have this capacity for loyalty and devotion to their own cause, and if they can be shown that the cause of the state and the nation is as worthy as their cause, we shall get from them as much devotion to the state and the nation as they now give to unionism. Everything, however, has been done to show them that the only protection they can look for is from their unions, and that the state and nation will do everything possible by legislation to take away the benefits obtained for them by their unions. When the men issued an ultimatum to the ship-owners, it was  countered by a threat by the Prime Minister. We did not expect the Prime Minister to counter threat with threat. I do not believe in ultimatums. A tactical mistake was made in issuing that ultimatum, and in refusing to withdraw it. But we have to remember that the people who issued the ultimatum cannot be expected to have the same social ideas as the Prime Minister. They have not had the same advantage in getting close to literature, art, and other benign and ennobling influences, which are a great educational factor with some people. We cannot expect the man who works in a stokehold from week to week to be filled with the same social and national ideals as the Prime Minister. When we find that these men take a wrong step in issuing an ultimatum, and that it is followed by another wrong step by the Prime Minister and members of his Government, we can only come to the conclusion that the Prime Minister and his followers have not benefited by the benign and ennobling influences to which they have had access. We can also make no mistake by coming to the further conclusion that they are no longer worthy to govern the men who are supposed to be their inferiors. Do they expect these " inferior " men to reach an ideal which they, even with their greater opportunities, have not. reached ? I think they cannot. If some one happened to tread roughly and rudely on the Prime Minister's corns - literally on hia corns - I do not think he would descend to vulgar abuse. 
 He descended very rapidly to it the other night. 
I am speaking literally, not metaphorically. As he would not descend to vulgar abuse if some one trod upon his actual corns, neither should he descend to it when people tread upon his metaphorical corns. A conciliatory measure would appeal to the people, but this bill is by no means conciliatory. It is unjust in ite incidence, because, in the first place, it does not apply equally to all citizens of this country. It is wrong, in the second place, because it does' not make use of ordinary legal processes, and it is wrong 'in the third place because it is directed at a certain section of unionists as emergency legislation. The trade unions of Australia believe implicitly that it is directed against all of them, and for that reason they are opposed to it. It is wrong in every particular. Much as I am opposed to the principle of deportation, and to the processes by which it will be carried out under the bill, and much as I oppose the bill for other academic reasons, if people commit offences, for which the ordinary punishments are insufficient, against such a great humanizing and educational factor as the trade union movement of this country, and the Government can devise an effectual law operating through the ordinary courts of justice to apply penalties equally to the unionists and shipping magnates, which might include, in the latter case, a fine of £10,000 an hour during the- continuance of an industrial disturbance, I would agree to a severe form of punishment to meet the offence, and perhaps even to deportation. 
.- It is interesting to hear from the honorable member for Barton  (Mr. F. McDonald)  that he regards those influences operating in the sphere in which the right honorable the Prime Minister and those who associate with him move as " benign and ennobling." That is quite a refreshing admission from a member sitting on that side of the House, and he seems to expect, having regard to those benign and ennobling influences, better things from the right honorable gentleman. I have listened very patiently to the debate on this bill, and I frankly confess that I am one of those who cannot understand the attitude of honorable members opposite. They seem to be labouring under an extraordinary misapprehension regarding the scope and design of the bill. If they really understood it their opposition to it would vanish. A most remarkable reason was given by the honorable member for Barton for the opposition of honorable members on his side of the House to it. He said, " I oppose the bill because it is opposed by trade unionists throughout Australia." That is a most extraordinary reason for an honorable member to give whose duty it is to subject a measure to criticism, and assent to it or reject it on its merits. 
 I wish to raise a point of order. The honorable member for Fawkner  (Mr. Maxwell)  has misquoted my words, and misconstrued my meaning. 
What I did gay was that I was voicing the opposition of the trade unionists of Australia to this bill. I said I agreed with that opposition, but I did not give it as a reason for my opposition. 
The honorable member has been sufficiently long in Parliament to know that, although another member may misconstrue his remarks, that does not constitute a point of order. I am listening to the fortysecond or forty-third speech on this bill, and I have heard honorable members misconstrue many arguments advanced by previous speakers, but no points of order were raised on that account. 
Then I leave it to the honorable member's honour. 
If it is a point of honour, that is purely a matter for the honorable member for Fawkner. 
I understood the honorable member to say what I have indicated, but if he says he did not say so, I accept his assurance without the slightest hesitation. He says that the bill is opposed by trade unionists throughout Australia, and I cannot help thinking that that opposition has had an influence on the representatives of trade unionism in this House. Let me quote from a speech delivered in the Socialist Hall, Melbourne, by the  president  of the Trades Hall Council last Sunday week. In criticizing the bill he said - 
It is an organized attack by the Government upon the rights of the people. 
Hear, hear! 
That is endorsed. The  speaker  then went on to say - 
It is a direct incentive to violence and force. 
Hear, hear ! 
And that is endorsed. He then went on to say - 
A challenge that must be accepted, and force met by force. 
There is no endorsement of that, I am glad to observe. I also find that the secretary of the Trades Hal] Council,  Mr. Holloway,  wham we all respect, characterized the bill as " a specimen of caveman legislation," and proceeded to say - 
Is a main who has been here in Australia for many years, who has brought up and educated a family, to be sent about his business to another country, to begin life over again, simply because he has rendered himself obnoxious to large business concerns? 
These two utterances show a complete misapprehension of the provisions of this bill. 
I cannot wonder at persons outside, who are not as conversant with the provisions of the bill as are honorable members, misunderstanding its scope, having regard to the fact that the right honorable member for North Sydney  (Mr. Hughes),  in a remarkable speech on the measure, in which after drawing a lurid picture of the influence and action of such men as Walsh and Johannsen, weakly concluded by saying that he would be prepared to do everything in his power to put those men where they could do no harm, but he would not deport them because they held the opinions which they do on industrial matters. Those of us who have given the provisions of the bill the most cursory attention, know that it is not proposed to deport any man because of the opinions he holds, but because of deliberate acts. The Government are seeking power to deport men who are guilty of acts deliberately directed towards paralyzing the overseas and interstate trade of the Commonwealth, which is a vastly different thing. 
That is not in the bill. 
That is my reading of the measure. A man is not to be deported because of his opinions, but because of a deliberate act, the effect of which would tend to imperil the overseas and interstate trade of the Commonwealth. The honorable member for Batman  (Mr. Brennan),  in his interesting and what the honorable member for Wakefield  (Mr. Foster)  termed his charming speech, quoted with effect those well-known words of Shakespeare - 
You take my life 
When you do take the means whereby I live. 
The honorable member for Batman applied those lines to the individual, but they are capable of a much wider application than that in which they were used by the honorable member. The community could also say - 
You take my life 
When you do take the means whereby I live. 
This bill is framed to deal with the acts of men who seek to strike at the very life of the community. The burden of every speech delivered by honorable members opposite, including that of the honorable member for Barton (Mr; F. McDonald), has been that this bill is designed against the interests of trade unionists in Australia. It has been said that it is a conspiracy on the part of the 
Government and those whom they represent outside to strike a blow at trade unionism. I do not believe that there is a member on this side of the House who would support the bill if that was its objective, or if they thought it would have that effect. When any honorable member on this side of the chamber suggests that he is interested in and believes in trade unionism, honorable members opposite jeer. We listened with interest to the speech of the honorable member for Barton  (Mr. F. McDonald),  in which he traced the history of trade unionism. No one can read the early industrial history of England without a blush of shame - without a feeling of degradation or repulsion, because it is a story of human greed, human rapacitY.  taking advantage of the weakness of  its  fellow men. It is a history of capital in its strength taking advantage- of the weak, and grinding ' the poor for its own enrichment. The tyrannical acts of capital in the early days of the industrial history of England drove the workers into combination, and organizations grew from very little until they assumed tremendous dimensions. 
Human nature has not altered. 
I agree with the honorable member that it has not altered, and, because it has not, we have to do that which we are now seeking to do. Capital is greedy, and tyrannical, and it was when it exhibited those qualities and had driven labour to combine that we had the two great factors - on the one side, capital, combined, and on the other, labour, combined, too. Then began a trial of strength between the two forces. I admit that everything labour has achieved has been won as the result of struggle and self-sacrifice. Labour had to wring its rights from capital. And then a stage was reached at which the community said, " We must put an end to this state of war between capital and labour. We have these two great beneficent forces, which, in a spirit of cooperation and mutual goodwill, could work great good to the community. But what are they doing? They are always at each other's throats. When the demands of labour are not conceded, the men strike, and there is industrial war, with its attendant loss and suffering not only to those directly concerned, but to the whole community." The ' community, there fore, deliberately adopted the principle of arbitration, and established the Arbitration Court in the interests not of capital, or labour, but in the interests of. the community, so that . when disputes arose between these two great opposing forces, they could' be settled by judicial decision. Then we believed that the end of industrial war had come, and that industrial peace would be ushered in. No doubt, arbitration has done a great deal of good, but I would remind honorable members opposite that although a great deal has been said concerning the tyranny of capital, there is such a thing as the tyranny of labour. There is such a thing as the tyranny of organized numbers. Trade unionism, in its initial stages,' in its aim and scope, beneficent, wrongly directed and controlled is capable of becoming so obnoxious . a tyranny as any that has ever cursed the human race. 
Bunkum ! 
The word "Bunkum " is unparliamentary. 
Have not we all witnessed in this community the tyranny of labour when a strike has taken place? The honorable member for Batman  (Mr. Brennan)  claimed the other night that labour has a perfect right to dispose of its labour to best advantage. Certainly it has, but in so doing it has no right to say " I . want so ' much for my labour, and if I do not get it I will take care that no one else takes the job at a lower figure." It is a common occurrence to-day for individual workers, outside the ranks of unionism, to be afraid of the tyranny of organized numbers in the form of trade unionism. These . persons use physical force to prevent men, unless they happen to belong to . their particular union, from selling their labour at the price they think it to be worth. When organized numbers begin to feel their power, they are just as tyrannical as the individual despot. In fact, they are worse. We can remonstrate with a despot, imprison him, or, if necessary, destroy him. We cannot, however, deal effectively with the tyranny of organized numbers, which is tyranny of the most obnoxious description. When we established our Arbitration Courts we thought we had done with this trouble, and that all our disputes would be amicably settled. 
At one stage of its development legitimate trade unionism was beneficent in its aim and scope, but an element bas entered into trade unionism, which unionism would fain rid itself of.  It is that  ele-ment  that is tending to destroy unionism, to make it tyrannical and defy the law, and  it  is against this kind of thing that the bill is aimed. I desire as briefly as I can  to  examine the' industrial situation as it is. Honorable members have been speaking of the industrial position as it might, could, should, or would be, but I want to look at the situation in Australia to-day as it is. We have heard a good deal concerning the general principles of communism in a somewhat vague way, but I propose to deal with them a little more specifically. The honorable member for Batman  (Mr. Brennan)  sneered at the very idea of communism being regarded as a menace. He said it is a bogy. He adjured honorable members to dissociate themselves from the prattle about the foreigner and the communist, and said that the talk of the foreign element and war on society was so much humbug. 
Hear, hear! 
The honorable member for Batman evidently does not understand the situation. If the honorable member is right in saying that communism and war on society is mere humbug, I can quite understand him suggesting that there is no need for the bill. But is he? Let me direct honorable members' attention to a few facts. Probably I cannot mention a single one that is not already  known,  but I shall try to collocate them in such a way as to show their real significance. 
And their relationship to the bill. 
Yes, there will be little difficulty in doing that. We are told that honorable members of this side are opposed to trade unionism, that communism is a bogy, and that legist tion of this kind is unnecessary. I am going to show that it is eminently necessary and absolutely essential that the Government should be clothed with the powers which this bill proposes to give. 
The honorable member for Kooyong  (Mr. Latham)  admits that communism is a bogy. 
I do not think he does. He said the number of communists in the Commonwealth was negligible. I call the attention of the House to certain facts that were established by a perusal of some documents that were discovered on the occasion of a raid on the 22nd August, 1922, made on the secret communist conference at Bridgeman, in the United States of America. I refer honorable members to a most interesting account of that raid in the Boston  Transcript  of the 16th September, 1922, in which the contents of the seized documents are set out. The  following  facts were clearly established : - That a scheme of world revolution is controlled and directed from Moscow; that legitimate trade unionism is the principal obstacle between communism and the objects that it hopes to attain ; that it is the duty of the communists to get into the trade unions with a view to capturing them ; that it is the duty of the communists to associate themselves with every working-class struggle; that in associating themselves with the workers in their efforts to better their conditions they should, wherever possible, incite them to violence, in order that they may become accustomed to the idea of violence as a means of obtaining their ends; that the policy of the communists is to ingratiate themselves with the masses, and to create a militant left wing in every Labour organization. I do not suppose that there is one honorable member on the other side who knows anything about communism that will be prepared to dispute that these are the communist objectives, methods, and policy. The next step in my argument is to inquire what evidence we have that this vile thing called communism is getting a grip of Australia. First, a communist party was formed in Australia in 1920; its secretary is  Mr. J.  S. Garden. I shall have occasion to refer to that gentleman a little later, but at present it is sufficient to say that he is, and from the outset has been, the secretary of the communist party in Australia. At the end of 1922 the communist party sent three delegates to the Third International at Moscow in the persons of  Mr. J.  S. Garden,  Mr.  Earsman,  and, I think,  Mr. Howie.  They appeared before the Third International in Moscow, and  Mr. Garden  himself has given us an account of a report that he made to the conference. What are the outstanding features of that report? He told them that 1,000 communists in Australia controlled 400,000 workers. 
The honorable member does not believe " Jock," does he? 
I do. 
Why be so simple? 
I can always tell when my remarks are beginning to hurt; honorable members will have more to say before I am finished.  Mr. Garden,  in addition to saying that 400,000 workers in Australia were controlled by 1,000 communists, told the Third International at Moscow that the communists had a nucleus in every trade union in Australia, that nucleus comprising from two to twenty members. 
Does the honorable member believe him ? 
I do, and so does the honorable member.  Mr. Garden  also said that the communists in Australia had secured many of the prominent positions in. the trade union movement, and he boasted that of the twelve members of the Trade and Labour Council in Sydney eleven were communists. Do honorable members opposite believe that? 
Does the honorable member himself believe it? 
I do, and so does the honorable member.  Mr. Garden  also told themthat the communists in Australia would demonstrate to the workers that the Labour party could bring them no lasting betterment of their conditions by legislative action within the capitalistic state. 
Does the honorable member believe that? 
I believe that the Labour party will never bring about much  good, either by that or other means. The report of  Mr. Earsman  appeared in the London  Patriot,  it being reprinted from the journal of the international bolshevik organizations in Berlin.  Mr. Earsman's  report showed that the communists had gained entrance to the Labour party in two of the states of Australia, namely, Queensland and New South Wales. 
The honorable member's remarks sound like a bed-time story. He should reserve them for timid old ladies. 
Honorable members should not speak too soon, as I have some more facts to present to the House. 
I am not the only one who believes these things. In his report  Mr. Earsman  endorsed the remarks of  Mr. Garden,  and in an endeavour to sum up the position as it affected the trade union movement in Australia, he said that the communist party in Australia could not be charged with neglect of the trade unions. He added that the party was born within the trade union movement; that its roots were deeply and firmly embedded in it, and that all its activities were in and through that movement. 
Does the honorable member believe that ? 
I do, and I will prove it before I sit down.  Mr. Earsman,  who has not yet returned to Australia for the reason that he was not permitted by the Government to do so, in an interview with the London  Sun of  January, 1923, said that he had received from  Mr. Lenin  the honour of an appointment as an honorary commander of the Bed Army. He characterized the Bed Army as an unbreakable machine, not imperialistic, but there to help the workers of other countries when they should rise in revolt.  Mr. Earsman  at this interview also said that Lenin had informed him that in Moscow the communists were training a band of propagandists for subsequent service in foreign fields. 
"On horror's head horrors accumulate." 
They do and will, as the honorable member will find as I go on.  Mr. Earsman  also said that Lenin had outlined for him a plan of campaign for Australia. 
I rise to a point of order. I heard you,  Mr. Speaker,  tell the honorable member for Perth  (Mr. Mann)  last week that you could not permit him so go to China in discussing the measure. The honorable member for Fawkner  (Mr. Maxwell)  has taken us to Berlin, and is now taking us to Moscow. I ask if he is in order in so doing. 
I am afraid that every honorable member who has spoken on this bill - and more than 40 have already spoken - has erred. A laxity of debate has developed notwithstanding the attempts ofthe Chair to confine honorable members strictly within the rules of procedure. The honorable member for Fawkner must show the relevance of his remarks to the subject before the Chair. 
I undertake to do so. 
I understand that the honorable member has undertaken to show that this bill is designed to cure the curse of which he is complaining. 
Yes,  Mr. Speaker,  that is exactly what I am endeavouring to do. I now ask, what is the attitude of trade unionism to this evil of communism in Australia? In the issue of  The Worker  of the 10th October, 1923, there appeared the following - I quote from memory :  - 
The time has come when members of the Australian Labour party must define their attitude to the Communist party. 
 We did that at the last conference. 
 The Worker  went on to say - 
There is an unbridgable gulf between the two parties of temperament and tactics. The leaders of the Communist party, in order to gain admittance to the Australian Labour party conference, made a false declaration, stating that they belonged to no other political party. The Communist party believes in the rule of the minority necessarily imposed by force, while the Australian Labour party is democratic to the core, and recognizes that the will of the majority is the only safe basis for any social system. It repudiates with loathing the principles of terrorism when deliberately inculcated as a method of government.. . . These communists use the dialectics of subterfuge and falsehood at the bidding of a foreign master. 
This is the view of legitimate trade unionism in Australia concerning those elements in our industrial life which the  honorable member for Batman  (Mr. Brennan)  suggests are merely a bogy. What is the attitude of the leaders of the Labour party towards the menace which this bill seeks to meet? We have heard a great deal about what  Mr. Lang  has done. He has been lauded to the skies because of his efforts recently in the cause of industrial peace. Before I quote  Mr. Lang's  remarks, let me remind honorable members of the attitude of the Australian Labour party itself towards this socalled bogy - this ghost which some honorable members suggest we can afford to disregard altogether. At the 1923 June Labour conference, a motion was carried, on the casting vote of the  chairman,  agreeing to affiliation with the communist party. Subsequently, realizing the gravity of the step taken, the 1924 April conference reversed this decision. Recognizing that communists merely sought entrance into the Labour party for the express purpose of destroying it, the conference decided to exclude all communists. I come now to the attitude of the then leader of the Labour party in New South Wales. I desire to quote a statement by  Mr. Lang  in the columns of  The Worker  of the 5th March, 1924. With your permission,  Mr. Speaker,  and the indulgence of the House, I shall ask my friend the honorable member for Macquarie  (Mr. Manning)  to read extracts I have marked from  Mr. Lang's  speech. 
Such indulgence is always granted. I assume that the extracts about to be read are relevant to the bill? 
They are,  Mr. Speaker. 
While the quotations are being read, the honorable member for Fawkner may resume his seat without forfeiting his right to continue his speech at their close. 
 The passages marked by the honorable member for Fawkner are as follow : - 
The Australian Labour party is open to any one willing to comply with its rules. . . . Our rules are wide enough to admit any one desirous of giving a helping hand to the movement in the true spirit of unity. If the communists will not come in under the rules, they must have an ulterior motive to serve. This motive is to be found in the instructions they have received from their Moscow dictators. 
A Message from Moscow. 
The following statement was issued from 
Moscow early in 1922, and it shows what the communists mean by a united front: - 
There is a movement on foot in Europe to form a united front. It does not matter whether we are in favour or it or not, but we ask the communists all over Europe to take part in the united front, not for the purpose of making it effective, but for the purpose of strengthening the communists by direct propaganda inside the organization taking part in the movement. 
Just so! The granting of affiliation to the Communist party would initiate a struggle for control over the whole field of the Labour movement. . . 
Political Cut-throats. 
Following the recommendation of Communist head-quarters to resort to falsehood and any other device to get into the leagues and unions and to stay in them, communists have gained surreptitious entrance to a few branches with the result that the transaction of useful business has practically been suspended at the meetings; An orgy of abuse and intrigue has taken the place of beneficial effort for the movement. Decent-minded people find it more and more difficult to face the meetings, which are gradually being abandoned to these gangs of blaspheming political cut-throats. 
No  Compromise with Communists. 
No nationalist attack and no sectarian wile ever menaced the unity of the Australian Labour party to the degree that it is being menacedby these communist exponents of the united front. 
 I rise to order. I do not object to the honorable member for Macquarie reading the extract for the honorable member for Fawkner, but I strongly protest against quotations which raise the sectarian issue. 
As to the disability from which the honorable member for Fawkner is suffering; every Parliament in the British Empire immediately grants such an indulgence as that which has just been extended to him. On the point of order itself it appears to me that some of the matter introduced in the extract is not strictly related to the bill. I do not want to chide the honorable member for Fawkner, but I urge him in concluding his speech - and for his information I mention that he has yet twenty minutes - to show the distinct relevancy of his argument to the deportation clauses in the bill. I am assuming that that will be done, and his remarks, therefore, will not be out of order. 
 The passage marked by the honorable member for Fawkner continues - 
One marvels that their efforts to get into the AX.P. to carry on their nefarious work of destruction should receive even a moment's consideration. If a fanatic, armed with an axe, sought admission to an A.L.P. member's home for the purpose of smashing up the furniture and fittings, no time would be lost in debating his request. And no time should be needed to -decide to give the right-about to the communist destroyers of the A.L.P., however profuse and seductive may be their professions of a desire for unity. 
This is the close of the passage marked by the honorable member. 
Let me now say a. word as to the relevancy of my argument. As I pointed out at the outset of my remarks, the attack by the Opposition was directed to the point that the bill was a distinct and deliberate attempt to wreck trade unionism. I am endeavouring to show that the condition of affairs in Australia is recognized by the Government as such that a bill of this kind is necessary in the interests of not only the country generally, but also trade unionism itself. The responsible leaders of the Australian Labour party have been doing their utmost for the last two or three years to try to rid themselves of the. bugbear of communism, and therefore they ought to associate themselves with the Government in the attempt to stem this evil. That was the opinion expressed in March, 1924, by  Mr. Lang,  and in April the Australian Labour party went back on its old decision, and passed the motion to which I have already referred, excluding communists from its ranks.  Mr. Lang,  in his policy speech in May last, on the eve of the election, told the people ofNew South Wales that the Labour party had nothing in common with communism, and had nothing to do with communists, but excluded them from its ranks. 
 One is reluctant to object to the remarks of the honorable member for Fawkner, but I must take exception to the way in which he is dealing with the matter. I contend that his remarks are most irrelevant. The bill is not a measure to deport communists. If it were, the Government would have said so. 
Unless anything has since occurred my previous ruling still stands. So far as the honorable member has gone he is not more out of order than other honorable members have been during this debate. 
 This will be a handy ruling later on. 
The honorable member must not disregard the authority of the Chair, or interrupt it when it is addressing the House. If he does, he will incur the displeasure of the Chair. So far as I am able to judge from the trend of his argument, the honorable member for Fawkner is inorder ; but I hope that he will become more conclusive than he has been up to. the present moment in showing the relevancy of his remarks. 
The statement by  Mr. Lang  was replied to by  Mr. J.  S. Garden in the columns of the  Workers' Weekly  on 8th May. He said that  Mr. 
Lang was desperately trying to dissociate himself from the communists, although his puerile efforts only roused the amusement of the Nationalists and the contempt of organized workers. 
The result of the election in New South Wales did not show that. 
Is the Leader of the Opposition simple enough to think that the number of votes polled for the communists directly at the last New South Wales election is a measure of their power? 
I am simple enough to think that the voting in New South Wales shows that the people approve of the Labour party and its platform. 

 - Mr. Garden, in the  same article, said they would do their best to help put Labour in power, in spite of  Mr. Lang.  All through the piece we have seen the responsible leaders of labour doing their best to dissociate themselves from the communists. In every trade union there is a nucleus of from 2 to 20 of these people, and they are doing their deadly' work. When we marshal these facts before our minds and consider the influence that communism is asserting on the labour movement to-day, what are we to think of the action of such men as the  Deputy  Leader of the Labour party in this House ? 
The honorable member has only ten minutes to go, but up to the present he has said nothing about this bill. 

 Several other Opposition members interjecting - 

Honorable members of the Opposition who object to the honorable member for  Fawkner's  address by interjecting in this way know that their conduct is unseemly. If there is any protest against the ruling of the Chair it can be made in the appropriate way according .to the Standing Orders. In the meantime the honorable member for Fawkner is entitled to be heard. 
It is one of the most disgraceful episodes in this Parliament since you,  Mr. Speaker,  have been in the Chair. The remarks of the honorable member for Fawkner are in no way relevant. 
After what you yourself have said,  Mr. Speaker,  about the irrelevance that has characterized the debate on this bill, I think I am entitled to say that it is remarkable how honorable members opposite have, submitted to the irrelevancy of the speeches up to now. 
-Order! I remind the honorable member for Fawkner that in my last appeal I asked him to become more conclusive, and. I now urge him to show the relevancy of his remarks. 
I am trying my best to show that every fact that I have given seems to me to have a direct bearing upon the attempt that is being made in this bill by the Government to pro- tect the community from such a state of affairs as I have depicted as existing in the Labour movement itself. 
Not in trade unionism. 
I say within trade unionism. I have to meet the attack that has been made upon this bill by the Opposition. It was made very persistently and repeatedly, and I am simply trying to repel it and to show the necessity for such powers as are sought to be conferred upon the Government by  this measure. I was going to ask, having regard to  Mr. Lang's  statement and the extract I quoted from the  Worker  to show how this poison is in the Labour movement, what are we to think of the action of a man like the DeputyLeader of the Federal Labour party  (Mr. Anstey),  who in a speech he delivered at Perth about eighteen months ago commended Russia for the way in which she had shaken herself free from her indebtedness. What are we to think of the action already referred to by another honorable member, of the Leader of the Federal Labour party  (Mr. Charlton)  in heading a deputation bearing banners on which were inscribed such phrases as " Long live Russia," " Spread the way for revolution." 
I rise to a point of order. I submit that the argument advanced by the honorable member has no relevance whatsoever to the question under discussion. 
I think that the honorable member for Fawkner  (Mr. Maxwell)  is already aware that a considerable section of the House does not 
Bee the relevancy of his remarks. Judg ing those remarks from the Chair, I have considered that his whole argument is based upon the assumption that the bill is directed against the activities of communists in Australia. From that honorable members of the Opposition apparently disagree, but so long as that is a fair assumption from the reading of the bill, the honorable member's argument is relevant to the measure, and I ask honorable members to allow him to conclude. 
I was going to refer to one other honorable member on the Opposition side, namely the honorable member for Darling  (Mr. Blakeley).  We have the Leader of a State Labour party saying in Parliament that communism is no good, that the party has nothing to do with it, and has nothing in common with it, and has excluded communists from its membership. But in his speech, made when the motion was before the conference to affiliate the communists with the Labour party, the honorable member for Darling took up the position that the communist party cannot function outside the Labour party ; it must come inside, and he went on to say that the platform of the Labour party was broad enough to accommodate the most extreme of the communists. I understand that at the time he said that, the honorable member was  president  of the Australian Workers Union. If these things are so, does not one begin to suspect that communists have got into the Labour movement ? 
I rise to a point of order. I again take the point that the honorable member is not in order, and has not been in order at any time during the last quarter of an hour. 
That statement is a distinct reflection on the Chair. I have given several rulings on a number of points of order respectfully submitted by members of the Opposition. The honorable' for Darling is not entitled by any of the rules of Parliament to reflect upon the Chair, and I ask him to withdraw his reflection. 
I most certainly withdraw; but I understood you, sir, to say that the honorable member for Fawkner  (Mr. Maxwell)  was not. in order. 
1 did not say so. I urged the honorable member to show the relevancy of his remarks, and I expect him to do so. 
I understand that you, sir, recognize that my argument is directed to showing that the bill is aimed at the communists who are within the Labour party. 
I recognize that the honorable member does not make the task of the Chair very easy. 
Then why, sir, do you not rule him out of order straightway ? 
Order I 
I do not quite understand the position, but I bow to the ruling of the Chair. 
The honorable member is giving us the same stuff as he gave to the old women in his electorate. 
An Honorable Member. - The action of the Opposition is caddish. 
It is not half so caddish as what honorable members on the Government side are doing. 
Unless honorable members cease to disregard the authority of the Chair as they have done, I shall leave the chair until the House is restored to order. 
Let me remind honorable members of the statement made by  Mr. Garden  at Moscow, that the Labour party here could not bring about any permanent betterment in the conditions of the workers by legislative action, and the further statement that propagandists were being trained in Moscow for service here and elsewhere. 
I rise to a point of order, and I desire to quote one of your rulings, sir, during the debate on this bill. You said - 
Order! The House is considering the Immigration Bill. I am afraid the honorable member's argument has become one relating purely to arbitration. 
I submit that if arbitration may not be debated under the bill certainly communism cannot be debated under it. 
I think honorable members are aware of the great difficulty of confining this debate. I have alluded to it on four or five occasions when I found it necessary to interrupt honorable members. I am giving the honorable member "%or Fawkner full latitude I admit. I have appealed to him, thinking that he would recognize that the House desired him to show the relationship of his extended argument to the bill,  and particularly the deportation clauses, more conclusively than he has so far done. 
Suppose one of these propagandists who has been trained in Moscow in the policy and methods of the communists comes to Australia, and is found, having got into a trade union here, to be doing his dastardly work, to be concerned in acts inciting the people to lawlessness and acts which tend to paralyse interstate or overseas commerce here, what do honorable members opposite propose to do with a man of that kind ? I say this bill is designed to meet a case of that kind. I have been trying to show that this kind of thing is going on from one end of Australia to the other, and that much of the industrial unrest from which we are suffering is directly caused by these emissaries, either men who have come from Russia direct, or are inspiring those here who share the same views. I am exceedingly sorry that  Mr. Speaker  seems to think - 
 I am sorry myself that the honorable member did not touch upon the bill. 
I had no intention when I rose of discussing the methods of deportation, because I say deliberately that with honorable members opposite it is not a question of the method of deportation. They are opposed to the principle of deportation. 
 Hear, hear ! 
Whatever the method may be they are against the principle. We on this side ask why consideration should be given to a man who is found guilty of the offence described in the bill. 
 By a board. 
That is part of the method of deportation. I say if a man is found guilty of the offence described in the bill- 
 A foreigner. 
Yes, a foreigner. 
 A foreigner who may have lived here for forty years. 
A man who has lived here for forty years ought to know better. The longer he has lived here, the more heinous his offence. Unquestionably the action of honorable members opposite in this regard is dictated by per sons outside. Another honorable member has asked them to take their courage in. both hands, and I make an appeal to them. I ask them not to dance like a. troop of meek monkeys to the piping of a. gang of foreign revolutionaries, but rather to follow the dictates of their own good Australian horse sense and vote for the bill. 
 Mr. Speaker-- 
I move- 
That the question be now put. 
On behalf of the  Chairman  of the Joint Library Committee, I lay on the table the report of the Committee for the year ended the 30th June, 1925. 
Ordered to be printed. 
On the 26th June,  Senator Duncan  asked the following questions : - 
What was the total sum received by the Commonwealth in respect of terminal cable charges for the year 1923-24 for ordinary, deferred, press, and other classes of traffic? 
What proportion of this sum approximately represented traffic actually handled by the Commonwealth Post Office over land lines operated by the Post Office (i.e., excluding traffic operated by the cable administrations over lines leased by them) ? 
What was the cost of maintenance of land lines leased to the Eastern Extension Company and Pacific Cable Board respectively for the year 1923-24? 
What was the interest charge on the capital cost of such lines? 
What was the total loss on the Telegraphic Branch of the Postmaster-General's Department for the year 1923-24 without crediting cable terminal charges for which the Post Office performed no services? 
Will the Postmaster-General, in future reports of the department, show clearly the receipts in respect of cable terminal charges and separate these figures from ordinary receipts of the Telegraphic Branch? 
The following are the replies : - 
£236,090. 
Statistics are not kept. 
Land lines are not leased but are provided free of charge to the Eastern Extension Company and Pacific Cable Board. The cost of maintenance (including depreciation) of the lines, but not including the cost of operating staff at repeating stations or cost of interest and maintenance of buildings, was approximately £22,300. 
£19,375. 
Statistics are not kept to indicate the proportion of traffic on which the Post Office performs any service, but the net loss on the telegraph system as a whole was £189,000. 
These particulars are already shown in the department's reports. (See Appendix " A," Table No. 5, page 30, of report for 1923-4.) 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow : - 
The Commonwealth has not asked the British Government whether it would have any objection to the Commonwealth approaching the New York market. 
No. 
I ask leave to move, without notice, that leave be given to introduce a bill for an act to amend the Navigation Act 1912-1920. 
Objection having been taken, the Minister cannot have leave to move his motion without notice. 
.- Then I move- 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent a bill for an act to amend the Navigation Act 1912- 1920 being introduced without notice, and passed through all stages without delay. 
I do not propose at this juncture to deal with the bill itself, other than to say that the matter is urgent, and that the Government desires that it be proceeded with without delay. In view of the general desire that Parliament should rise for the celebration of the arrival in Australian waters of the American Fleet, it is essential that the procedure associated with the preliminary stages laid down in the Standing Orders, by which a delay of two or three days would occur, be dispensed with in this instance. As the matter is urgent, I ask the Senate to agree to the suspension of the Standing and Sessional Orders. 
I certainly- will not lend any assistance in the direction of the suspension of the Standing Orders to facilitate the introduction of a bill to amend the Navigation Act. I will not countenance the habit that has been formed by the Government of asking every week or so for the suspension of the rules which ordinarily govern our procedure. This is not a coincidence. It is not an accident. The practice of  asking for the suspension of the Standing Orders, for the purpose of rushing legislation through the chamber, is becoming chronic. .The Government seems to have got into a state of panic. Ministers are being stampeded themselves, and they are endeavouring to stampede the Senate. If it be necessary to amend the Navigation Act, surely the ordinary practice can be followed. The Minister  could  obtain leave to-day to introduce the bill, and fix the date for - the first reading, after which the clauses of the measure could be debated deliberately. Even if the matter be urgent the suspension of the Standing Orders is not justified. By following the usual pro.cedure the bill could be debated at its several stages to-morrow, on Friday, and, if necessary, on Saturday. I do not know what its provisions are. The Minister has not seen fit to vouchsafe any information as to what portion of the Navigation Act the Government desires to amend. All I know is that there has been a caucus meeting of the supporters of the Government. It was held hurriedly this afternoon, and the Leader of the Senate, after rushing down from that gathering, now endeavours to stampede us at short notice into the suspension of the Standing Orders to enable the bill to be passed at' express speed. Are the Standing Orders not for the good conduct of the business of this chamber? Almost every week since we assembled on the 10th June we have had the Minister asking for the suspension of the Standing Orders. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber agreed to their suspension in connexion with  the National Debt Sinking Fund and States Loan Bills, for we realized the urgency of those measures, but in the present case we remember that the Navigation Act was not placed on the statute-book until it had been deliberated  upon for many years. From nine to ten years of almost continuous debate took place in this Parliament before the mea- ; sure was passed, and even then it did not come into operation until it received the Royal assent. Considering how important that legislation is, and the benefit it has conferred upon the people of Australia, why should the Senate now suspend the Standing Orders so that an amending bill may be rushed through this chamber, and probably also through the other? I see no vital reason why the motion should be agreed to. Had the Minister given some indication of the nature of the amending bill we should not have been left entirely in the dark, but he has calmly invited us to give him a blank cheque. Let him bring in the bill in the ordinary way, circulate it amongst honorable senators, and let the measure be debated in the ordinary course. If the Minister then found that an attempt was made to block the bill, his present request might be opportune. I hope that he will not insist on pursuing the course he is adopting, ana I urge the Senate to show by its vote that it wishes that the recognized procedure of this chamber be followed. The Minister might as well ask that the Government be given carte blanche to introduce any legislation it desires, and rush it through the chamber without observing the Standing Orders. I recognize that the numbers are up on this occasion, and that the Minister is only obeying the dictates of the caucus meeting, hot-footed from which he has  just  entered the chamber. I trust that the Senate will reject the motion. 
I wish to endorse the sentiment expressed by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham).  If the matter is of such an urgent nature that the Standing Orders should be suspended, honorable senators are at least entitled to some information to justify them in voting for the motion. The only reason given for it is the near approach of the American Fleet. What has the visit of that fleet to do with the Navigation Act, that has occupied a place on the statutebook for so many years? When we had a visit from the Prince of Wales, the heir-apparent to the British throne, who was accompanied by a section of the British navy, the Government of the day  did not consider it essential to ask for the suspension of the Standing Orders to enable a bill to be introduced to amend the Navigation Act. Why, in connexion with the recent visit of a. section of the Japanese navy, -was it not considered necessary to amend that measure ? We on this side are entitled to know the real reason for the Minister's haste on this occasion. Is the haste due to the pending visit of the American Fleet, or does he desire the suspension of the Standing Orders for another purpose altogether ? I have an idea that, his action is, in some way, connected with the' present shipping dispute. If the honorable senator's object is to introduce a bill to amend those sections of the Navigation Act which render protection to both Australian seamen and the shipowners during normal times, we on this side desire to know what those amendments are, and for whose protection they are intended. I fear that the object of the Government is to place itsfull power behind the Steamship Owners Association in their conflict with the seamen. I can only endorse the remarks of the deputy-leader of this party  (Senator Needham),  that no . legislation passed by this Parliament had a more difficult passage 'through both Houses than the present Navigation Act. A few days ago  Senator Lynch,  in the course of a speech in this Chamber, asked for an alteration of the Navigation. Act; and I also heard representatives of Tasmania advocating the repeal of sections of that act which in years gone by they fought for because they believed that they would be of benefit to Australian shipping and those connected with it. To say that the arrival of the American Fleet is a sufficient reason for the suspension of the Standing Orders  to enable this bill to be rushed through this Chamber is hypocrisy  iti excelsis,  and we on this side will vote against the motion. 
Every section of this Parliament should at all times jealously guard its interests. For that reason honorable senators should not permit the Standing Orders of the Senate to be contravened unless in extraordinary circumstances.  The Leader of the Government in this Chamber  (Senator Pearce)  has stated that the measure to which this motion relates is a matter of urgency. I ask for whom is it urgent. Is it urgent because its quick passage through this Chamber will assist the party to which he belongs? We have been .informed that an urgent meeting of Government supporters was held to-day; and, while I do not believe all that I hear, rumour has it that the meeting was not altogether like a prayer meeting - that there were strained relations  at the gathering. When at that meeting certain suggestions for dealing with the present shipping trouble were made, those who desired to go beyond what the more moderate-minded among' them believed was necessary were told, so we are informed, " Thus far, but no farther." The suggestion was made I understand, that a bill to amend the Navigation Act should be introduced: If there is one honorable senator who ought to hesitate about amending that act, it is the present Leader of the Government in this Chamber. He it was who, as a member of a Labour Government a few years ago, piloted the measure through this Chamber, in spite of the vigorous opposition of men who to-day are associated with him politically. The honorable senator then stood for every provision in the bill which has since become law. He pointed out, as he would point out to-day if he were not tied up as he is, that that legislation was inthe best interests of the shipping industry and all connected with it, as well as for the benefit of the community generally. He showed them that it safeguarded and protected the White Australia policy, that it insured for the workers on the sea  condi-Hons  which they were unable to obtain previously. No  sooner  had the act been placed on the statute-book, than efforts were made to amend it. Those efforts were not made because of a desire to further assist the seamen ; they were made in the interests of- that section of the community from which the Government to-day derives strong financial support-. Reference has been made to the- speeches which have been made in this chamber, urging an amendment of the existing act. From time to time honorable senators representing Tasmania have vigorously opposed some of its provisions; I expect that their influence was exercised to-day at that meeting to which I 'have already referred; 
We on this side hold that there should be no tinkering with the Navigation Act, which would adversely affect the seamen or endanger the White Australia policy. We are informed by the Minister that the passing of this bill is a matter of urgency. Every, thing seems to be urgent when . the GoTvernment wants to get into recess, or enjoy a short holiday. With the Government nothing succeeds like recess. It is true that the American Fleet is expected to arrive in Melbourne next week. It is true also that that will be an event of importance in the history of the Commonwealth, but I confess my inability to Bee any connexion between the arrival in our waters of vessels forming part of the American Fleet and the urgency of an amendment of the Navigation Act. This is too serious a matter to be trifled with. Not in connexion with any measure which has found a place on the statute-book of the Commonwealth have more pains been taken, nor has greater discussion taken place, than in connexion with the Navigation Act, which now the Leader of the Government in this chamber seeks permission to amend as an urgent matter. I shall not assist in passing any amendment of the Navigation Act which is not in the interests of seafaring men. If the act is to be amended, and the numbers are' up from the Government point of view, the amendments should be made in a constitutional way. This Government, one of the characteristics of which is to go slow, seems to get into a state of panic when any alleged trouble arises. It desires then to have the Standing Orders abrogated, and to carry legislation through at express speed, and in a most unbusiness-like way. It is unbusiness-like for the Government to desire the suspension of the Standing Orders at the commencement of a session. There may be some excuse for such action when we. are approaching Christmas, as' at that period of the year there is usually a better spirit abroad. and members are anxious to return to their respective states and to the bosom of their respective families. In such circumstances a motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders would not encounter the opposition that it is meeting with to-day. Parliament reassembled on the 10th June. We had hardly commenced the business of the session when the Government found it necessary to proceed with its work in a way which no other Government would have considered prudent. It is characteristic of this combination, which is supposed to consist of business men. They may understand their respective businesses, but they do not understand the political business. A matter of urgency ! If the 
Government went about ils work in a business-like way it would pass legislation in much less time than it will by introducing a motion such as the Minister has just submitted. The Minister could not bring the bill forward without moving for the suspension of the Standing Orders, and when objection was raised to such a course being adopted he endeavoured to look surprised; but he was not surprised. He would have been if the motion had been adopted without opposition. Any task the Minister has to perform in the direction of amending the Navigation Act must be a thankless one to him.  His  heart cannot be in his work unless the opinions he held a few years ago have completely changed. You will remember,  Mr. President,  how warmly the Minister supported the Navigation Bill, and how vigorously he attacked those who desired to amend it in the way they considered necessary. I believe it was one of the joys of his life when he was able to say that the Government with which he was associated had at last passed a measure which had been so' long under discussion, and about which every preceding Government had issued promissory notes which were never redeemed. lt was a happy day for the Minister when the measure passed all its' stages, and eventually received the royal assent. Is the Minister happy to-day ? If he is ho could be happy in any circumstances ; but I do not think he is constituted in that way. The Leader of the Government in the Senate cannot be unmindful of the past. To hear the opinions of certain honorable senators one would think that the present shipping dispute was something new to Australia. We can reasonably anticipate that the proposed amendment of the Navigation Act is in connexion with the present shipping trouble. If it is not in that connexion, what is its object ? ' Is it to placate those Tasmanian representatives who always seem . to have a grievance ? If they are not complaining of the Tasmanian shipping services, they are in difficulties over the disposal of their apple or hop crops, and if it is not either of those mentioned it is something  incidental to that institution which is known in different parts of Australia as " Tattersalls." 
All genuine grievances! It seems to me that Tas- mania was born with grievances, and that every member from Tasmania is always brimming over with complaints. 
Or asking for cash for his state. 
Considering the meagre information that has been vouchsafed by the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  the suspension of the Standing and Sessional Orders should not be countenanced by honorable senators. For very many years efforts have been made to frame Standing Orders which will give to every honorable senator a fair deal. It is now suddenly proposed to sweep those to one side in order that action may be taken of which honorable senators, on this side at any rate, had no knowledge before the meeting^ of the Senate. The Government is no't playing the game. There are no fewer than 450 Standing and Sessional Orders which honorable senators are expected to observe. An index covering 24 pages is provided to enable an honorable senator to locate promptly any Standing Order that he may desire to consult. For the further assistance of honorable senators an analysis of the various Standing Orders is embodied in another nine pages. We are all liable to err, but prompt action is always taken to keep honorable senators within the limits of the Standing Orders. Apparently, because of the visit to Australia of the American Fleet, the Government desire to pass through all its stages an amendment of the Navigation Act. Very few acts have occupied the time of the Senate for so long a period as did the Navigation Act. It must be remembered that the seamen are not the only persons who are affected by the provisions of that act. It affects also the ship-owners and the travelling public, as well as the sea-borne commerce of the Commonwealth. Any one who Has followed the endeavours by seamen in all countries to better their conditions must have been struck with the fact that at all times they have had a very strenuous existence. It has been said that the conditions of the seamen on the Australian coast, are equal to, and in some cases better than, those obtaining in any other part of the world. They should be. In the opinion of the seamen, however - and they are the best judges in the matterthose conditions are not so good as they should be. Some little while ago a powerful morning newspaper referred to one of the seamen as the leader of a revolution to secure ham and eggs for breakfast. Imagine the impudence of this well-fed, well-groomed, well-paid editor, criticizing the action of one not so well favoured, although built of the same material as he! 
  The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. 
Givens). - Does the honorable senator really consider that that has anything to do with the question as to whether the Standing and Sessional Orders should or should not be suspended? 
Anything which may affect the seamen can, I think, be properly reviewed in a discussion of this motion. I cannot see what urgency there can be for the introduction of an amendment of the Navigation Act. Had the Minister been able to show that there was urgency, the position would have been entirely different from what it is now. He was particularly careful not to give any indication of the nature of the urgency, excepting to say that the American Fleet was visiting Australia. I fail to see any connexion between the arrival, the departure, or the entertainment of the American Fleet and the Navigation Act. 
I did not hear him say that. 
I do not deny that he said it. But what is of greater concern to me is, why the necessity to suspend the Standing and Sessional Orders? Does the Minister think that he is acting fairly in attempting, with the aid of honorable senators who support him; to force this measure through the Senate. That method of doing business may be all right in a place like Italy, and may eventually be adopted in Australia. It may have some good points in its favour, but if the tables were turned, and Labour had a majority in the Senate, those who are now supporting the Ministry would from these benches strenuously oppose a proposal to suspend the Standing Orders for the purpose of enabling the Government of the day to put the whole of the principles of the Labour platform on the statute-book in one act. If the present Government wants to force legislation through without adequate notice, and fair discussion, I can only presume that if a change of government takes place members of the present administration will raise no serious objection to their successors following the example that is now being set. I do not sav that two wrongs make a right, but there will at least be some justification if such a thing is done. Our Standing Orders are ouch that honorable senators frequently come into conflict with them, but they are framed for our guidance. I realize that  Senator Pearce  is perfectly in order in asking ' that the Standing Orders be suspended, so that his proposed amendment of the Navigation Act can be dealt with almost without discussion. 
I understand, of course, that if this motion is carried, honorable senators will not be prevented from opposing the bill to the best of their ability, but it is to be regretted that the Minister did not take us more into his confidence and point out the reasons for thealleged urgency. If he had shown us that something of an extraordinarycharacter necessitated this departure from the usual method of procedure, I am sure honorable senators would have been reasonable enough to give him a square deal. But he has not done so, and I enter my emphatic protest against the suspension of the Standing and Sessional Orders for this particular purpose. 

 Senator LYNCH  (Western Australia) (3.54]. - I will support the Minister,  Senator Pearce,  in hie proposal to avail himself of what the Standing Orders already provide for, namely, their suspension in a case of urgency. Later on, 1 shall refer to the merits of the case of urgency, but, in the meantime, I direct the attention of honorable senators who have already spoken to certain facts that stick out in the history of this country in the immediate past, and which are, I think, relevant to this debate. It is quite possible that those honorable senators who advocate a policy of " going slow " in the matter of legislation cannot get out of the habit thev formed when this Parliament went slow with the passing of thf* Navigation Act. It went so slow that it took seven years to complete the task, just about as long as it took Noah to build his ark; and when it was completed it was found, according to some authorities,  to  be so imperfect that it needed immediate amendment. Applying to this legislation the test of care, scrutiny, and consumption of time in its passage, it is by no means a work of perfection. Consumption of time not having led to perfection, is there any risk in using another expedient, and in seeing what effect expedition will have? There is, however, a superadded reason why the course proposed by  Senator Pearce  should be adopted. I presume that  Senator Findley  read his newspaper this morning. He could not glance at it without seeing that the community is living on the verge of a veritable volcano, and that we are within striking distance of having thousands, if not scores of thousands, of people thrown out of work. Any one with a grain of imagination can see it. The gauntlet has been tossed clown, but it is' evidently of no concern to  Senator Findley.  He will not pick up the glove, but says, "Wait and see." I think' we have seen enough, borne enough, and suffered enough to warrant us in saying that the time has arrived for something to be done in the nature of the proposal  Senator Pearce  has put before us. 

 - Senator Findley was a prominent member of the Government that helped to pass the Navigation Bill, and if he does not see the bearing which, that most important piece of legislation has on the existing situation I am afraid I cannot enlighten him. I can only think that he has not had time to consider the situation or the serious effect it is likely to have on every well-disposed citizen. Does the honorable senator want to keep the wheels of industry running smoothly? Does he want to see the ordinary progress of the country maintained? Or, on the contrary, does he want to see hundreds of men thrown out of work and placed on the verge of starvation through the action taken by some wild and unreasonable individuals in the community? It is time these wild and unreasoning individuals were brought to their bearings and relieved of the responsibility they have too long assumed  in  running the affairs of this country. It is time that slow, lumbering and patient element in the community known as the majority asserted itself, and the law of the. country, and the Government now proposes that the law shall be asserted. We have not yet got back to that chaotic stage when every man by the use of a thorny club made the law as he went along. Society in this Commonwealth of ours is ruled by law. Australia is a lawabiding community. 
All I have to guide me is what I saw in this morning's and yesterday's newspapers. I saw in them a declaration plainly given by a number of people who exercise a very great power in this country, so great a power that' their actions have not been questioned. In certain circumstances they seem to have supreme control over state governments. At any rate that is so in Western Australia. But that is by the way. I am trying to uphold the action taken by the Minister for the suspension of the Standing Orders, because he proposes to do what any community would do to safeguard its interests. Has  Senator Findley  never heard of the Standing Orders being suspended before? Obeying my leader, as I am always in the habit of doing, I have time after time followed   Senator Findley  meekly and decilely across the floor of the Senate to vote for the suspension of the Standing Orders when he held office in a Labour Government. I never questioned the decision of my leaders. But now the honorable senator has stepped from the ministerial bench to another seat of authority in the chamber, not perhaps so important, but yet of considerable importance, and he takes a different view of such action. The country benefits by having a strong Opposition, watchful of every proposal and every action of the Government, because only by that means can Ministers be kept in their proper place. We are all subject to audit. Ministers are watched by other Ministers and by every honorable senator. Honorable senators are watched in turn by the electors, and the electors watched by " old necessity ; and it is just as well that we should have an Opposition to fulfil its traditional role - but always within reasonable and rational limits - of keeping a close scrutiny upon the proposals and actions of the Government.  Senator Findley  thinks that the present proposal is a ninth world-wonder, but he must have read this morning's papers. He is one of the watchdogs of democracy, one of the leaders of public opinion, one of the moulders of political thought. He must know that the country is to-day in one of the most critical industrial positions it has ever reached. 
 Senator Findley  refuses to see the cloud on the horizon, but  Senator Hannan  knows that the position is- so threatening and so desperate for every well-affected citizen that it is time wa paused. Would it not have been better for  Senator Findley  to say that he believed' the action of the Minister was thoroughly justified, that the country was in danger, and that it was on the eve of a desperate upheaval at the instance of men not actually in authority, but arming themselves with an authority, and seeking against the advice of the leaders of democracy to bring the industry and commerce of the country to a dangerous level, and to such a state of confusion that no end of distress and hardship may result? But  Senator Findley  will not admit this.  Senator Hannan  was manly enough to cheer my statement that the country was cai the eve of a most desperate condition. The suspension of Standing Orders is not a ninth world-wonder. Motions for their suspension have been moved in this chamber over and over again, and if we look farther afield we find that other bodies have resorted to the practice. Will  Senator Findley  say that the authorities at the Trades Hall do not suspend standing orders ? He remains silent. He knows that it has been done in the past, and that it is being done at the present moment. The fact is that the Trades Hall has under its rules the power that this Senate possesses, namely, the power when the necessity arises to brush aside the Standing Orders in order to permit of a question of paramount importance being discussed. Therefore, when  Senator Findley  objects to the Government doing what his party has done in the past, and which it is doing now, I ask him to allow some semblance of consistency here with what his party is -doing outside. Comparisons are said to be odious, but they serve a most useful purpose, enabling one to judge the qualities of men as one distinguishes between the diamond and the- counterfeit stone.  Senator Findley  regards the present' proposal as  an unusual thing, but I repeat that the Government is merely adopting a practice that is followed at the Trades Hall. Does  Senator Barnes  dispute it ? 
 I ask the honorable senator whether we should not treat the matter as a serious one? I point out that a serious position cannot be met by ordinary means. Extraordinary means, such as the present proposal, have to be adopted. I notice in this afternoon's issue of the Melbourne  Herald  a statement showing that the course the Government proposes to adopt in. this case is to be followed by the Melbourne Trades Hall Council. This paper does not print anything that I say. But that does not matter. There is a freemasonry amongst the Melbourne newspapers, and if you offend one you offend them all. The old world tyranny was nothing to the tyranny of these " rags." I pick up this paper, and on a page which bears no number, but is stamped " Late City," and bears a red star, which certainly looks ominous, and on that account ought to be accepted as a standard authority. 

 Herald has nothing to do with the question under discussion. 
"What the Government now proposes to do has been done, according to this report, at the temple at which mv honorable friends opposite must kneel, almost with bared feet. The paragraph reads - 
Contrary to custom, the Melbourne Trades Hall Disputes Committee has not yet summoned a conference of the unions likely to be concerned. This action is expected to-morrow or on Friday.  To-morrow  night the suspension of standing orders will be moved at the meeting of the Melbourne Trades Hall Council, to enable the position to be discussed, and the executive of the Council is expected to submit a report on the matter. 
It is obvious that a meeting is to be held post haste at the Trades Hall, and I advise honorable senators opposite to go there post haste and object to the suspension of the Standing Orders, just as they do in the chamber. Let them oe consistent, for they will find that consistency pays best. I ask  Senator Needham  to justify his attitude. The honorable senator cannot face east and west at the same time. 
We have all this make-believe about the objection on the part of honorable senators opposite to the suspension of the Standing Orders, but these champions of independence would not dare to assert themselves in the same way at the Trades Hall. If they did they would be shown the door, and curses would be sent after them. But because there are no penalties to be incurred for their utterances in this chamber they are prepared to have a free fling here and trifle with the best interests of this country, which has been so good to them. 
I admit that some of the Labour men have contributed to it. I fail to see what good can come from objection to the motion. If it is carried honorable senators opposite will still be able to speak at as great a length as they will be if it be rejected. Their chief qualification is their willingness to speak on all occasions. 
And an additional night, too. Has there ever been such an episode in the history of this Parliament? By the time the people responsible for the impending disaster have executed their purpose, and succeeded in dragging others behind them, what will be the position of affairs in Australia? The very men and women who sent Labour members here will be the first to suffer. The Government and its supporters wish to save the Seamen's Union from its folly. I know that it is a thankless task to remind people of their plain duty to themselves and to the society of which they form a part, but I urge honorable senators opposite to cease their by-play and believe for once that there is a large, patient element in the community watching their behaviour as well as mine. Already that element outside has suffered too long, and it is for the purpose of alleviating the position to some degree that the  Government has submitted the present motion as a preliminary proceeding. Do you want this country to be plunged into misery and degradation, because of your ill-fated beliefs that nothing is wrong? Of course you know what is happening. Why do you not speak the words that are in your hearts? 
Order 1 The honorable senator will please address the Chair. 
Order ! The honorable senator knows that it is not in accordance with the Standing Orders to address honorable senators in the second person. He must refer to them always in the third person. 
.- I rise to speak against the motion. Although it is true that on many occasions it has been found necessary for the Senate to suspend the Standing Orders, as far as I can remember, the Minister moving the motion has oh every occasion taken honorable senators into his confidence, informed them of the reason for his proposed action, and given them some indication cif the nature of the amendments to be . brought forward . Honorable senators have already referred to the fact that the Navigation Act. was placed upon the statute-book only after very full consideration; and that, even after it had obtained the approval of both Houses of Parliament, several years elapsed before the royal assent was obtained, and the legislation put into operation. When we consider those circumstances, and then call to mind the circumstances existing at present in the shipping industry, we must seriously consider what should be done. Those who constitute the Parliament of a country are supposed  to  have special ability to deal with great issues, such . as that now agitating the minds of the people of Australia.' If that be true, surely we should not be the first to rush in, looking for a fight. Seeing that the ship-owners and the seamen have been see-sawing, negotiating, and also, unfortunately, uttering words which radoubtedly are unwise, it is not for us to interfere before it is necessary. It is their own fight, and as yet Parliament has no place in it. 

 Senator Lynch read from the  Herald  a statement that the Melbourne Trades Hall Council to-morrow would move the suspension of its standing orders. That is a matter of importance, as the council represents  250,000  workers in Victoria. 
That may be so, but we are not all in touch with the forces in the industrial world. Some of us are, but  Senator Lynch  evidently is not. He said that certain things which are contemplated in this chamber were also contemplated by the' Melbourne Trades Hall Council. Nothing of the kind ! Before the Melbourne Trades Hall Council adopted that course, reasons for the suspension of the standing orders would be given, as well as proper notice of the intention to move in that direction.  Had the Minister given us an indication of the nature of the amending bill, and provided Opposition members with an opportunity to study it, he would have been acting in a- proper manner, and could, with reason, have asked that the measure be passed through this chamber without unnecessary delay. It was only after a long fight (hat the Navigation Act was placed on the statute-book. Among its provisions is one embodying the White Australia policy. It might be that the Government now proposes to attack that principle, and to provide that vessels employing black labour may engage in our coastal and interstate trade to the detriment not only of the seamen of this country, but of the ship-owners also. 
I am sorry to say that they are not, and I am very  concerned whether the action of the Government will assist to make them run. The Prime Minister in another place a short time ago remarked that we. should be careful about interfering in delicate matters. There are people in Australia who know more about this shipping dispute (ban does  Senator Lynch,  but they have sufficient sense not to run in with a big stick and bludgeon every one.  Senator Lynch  has thought fit to deliver a lecture to  Senator Findley  and myself and others who were in the Labour movement before he came to this country, and are in it still. We stand for white labour in Australia, while  Senator Lynch  advocates black labour. Yet the honorable senator presumes to lecture me. There are capable men on both sides in this dispute who, in all probability, are now cudgelling their brains to find a way out. They are prepared to go to the limit of what their respective sides can do to deal with  thi3  dispute in a way that will give them a reasonable chance of settling it honorably. Seeing that I am the  president  of an association containing 120,000 men in this country - all good fighters when the necessity arises - I might be excused if I were presumptuous enough to say that I would be one pf the last to attempt to interfere in a coercive manner in a matter of this kind. I believe that it is the right and privilege of every prominent member of the community who is in the full possession of his senses, whether he be in this Parliament or in the industrial or shipping world, to place his services at the disposal of his country to ensure peace in industry. We want nolectures from  Senator Lynch,  as we know more about the position than he does. Unlike  Senator Elliott,  I have not had the honour of taking a part in the battles of the Empire, but I have been in almost every industrial fight in Australia during the last 30 years. I do not want any one to tell me what I should do or say ; I object to such lectures. We on this side object to the Minister's proposal because we are fearful that the Government will try to do on this occasion what was done under the War Precautions Act, when so many in this Senate were misled. While I am a member of this Parliament I am not going to agree to anything of the kind. I seriously ask the Government to re-consider its proposal, and to give effect to its intentions in another and what I consider to be the constitutional way. If they did that, it would probably avoid the trouble that must naturally arise if action is taken in the direction indicated by the Minister. I trust that wiser counsels will prevail. We should not in this Chamber start a conflict over the shipping dispute which will extend far beyond the precincts of this Chamber; in fact, all over the Commonwealth. It should not be said that as your side is fighting ours will fight also. An earnest endeavour should be made to settle the dispute, and thus enable industry to be carried on in a manner satisfactory to all parties. 

 Senator GIBBS (New South Wales) mitted by the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  with a good deal of diffidence, as this is the first occasion on which I have spoken in this Chamber. I therefore trust honorable senators will bear with me if I do not comply in every detail with the established custom of the Senate. As the debate proceeds the more perplexed I become. The Minister indicated that the motion was submitted in consequence of the approaching visit of the American Fleet. 
The Minister referred to the arrival of the fleet. 
It appears to me that the motive underlying the motion is that given to the Senate by  Senator Lynch.  Everyone is well aware that an industrial crisis is pending, and I am very much afraid that the amendment of the Navigation Act, as proposed, will not have the results anticipated. The Navigation Act, I understand, contains approximately 425 sections, and I should like to know which of these sections it is proposed to amend. Is it the intention of the Government to amend the act so far as it relates to the restrictions imposed upon men who go down to the sea in ships. Does it propose to interfere with the operations of ship-owners engaged in Australian costal trade, or is it intended to place employees aboard those ships who have not complied with the conditions laid down in the Navigation Act? If it is the intention to amend the act inany of these directions I shall most emphatically protest. 
We are grateful to  Senator Lynch  for the kindly feelings he displays towards honorable senators on this side of the chamber. Personally, I am grateful to him for pointing out the evil of our ways, but let me assure the honorable senator that we have nothing  whatever to fear from the people of Australia in the opposition we are showing to the proposal to amend the Navigation Act, which was passed after strenuous discussion and lengthy debate, and which was acclaimed from one end of the country to the other when it became law.  Senator Lynch  said that in consequence of the pending industrial crisis the Standing Orders should be suspended to enable a bill to be introduced to amend the Navigation Act. From that I assume he believes that an amendment of that act will be the means of preventing an industrial crisis. Let me assure  Senator Lynch  that such will not be the case, and that the suspension of those provisions which protect the rights of seamen working on the Australian coast will bring about an even greater industrial crisis than that which is at present feared. I am firmly convinced that the whole of the trouble referred to by  Senator Lynch  could have been avoided if the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  had displayed a little more tact, instead of informing the members of a deputation from New South Wales that a stage had now been reached when the dispute had to be fought to a finish. The right honorable gentleman should have indicated his willingness to intervene and brim* about a conference between the parties concerned. Even at this stage I feel that it is not too late to prevent an industrial upheaval. All that is necessary is for the Prime Minister to intimate to the ship-owners throughout Australia and to the employees' representatives that it is his intention to convene a round-table conference at which all the cards of the opposing factions can be placed on the table. If that is done I believe that the present industrial trouble will be settled in a short time. If the act is amended - I presume that such amendments can only be for the purpose of endeavouring to prevent an industrial crisis being precipitated - in the way which the Government believe is necessary to prevent a crisis, it can only  be done by amending section 39 of Division VI., which provides that seamen must serve a certain time before the mast before the.y can be employed on coastal vessels. Amendments can only be made in that direction or in the manner suggested by  Senator Barnes,  so that overseas steamships may engage in the interstate coastal trade. That would mean the abrogation of our White Australia policy, because the ships which would engage in such trade are in most cases manned by coloured labour. That is a proposal which I, as an Australian born citizen, strongly resent, particularly in view of the strenuous efforts made prior to the introduction of the Navigation Act to protect Australian seamen from the competition of coloured labour. I earnestly trust that the Government will review the situation which has arisen in consequence of the Minister's expressed intention to suspend the Standing Orders, and that he will permit the amending bill to come before the Senate in the customary manner. It is to be hoped that he will not regard the measure as a matter of urgency,  but will allow it to be dealt with as are other bills. If that is done honorable senators will have a proper and reasonable opportunity to debate the bill clause by clause, and we shall then know that the measure has been passed after due deliberation and the utmost consideration of the importance of its provisions. 
.- Practically every honorable senator who bas opposed the motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders appear to be fully conversant with the provisions of the bill to be submitted. I am not officially aware of the contents of the measure- to be presented, but when we remember that during the last two years a royal commission has been inquiring into the operation of the Navigation Act as it affects Australian trade and ascertaining how existing anomalies can be rectified, apparently the time to introduce amendments to that act is overdue. As honorable senators are aware three distinct recommendations have been made, and judging by the reports of the commission there is an urgent need to amend the act. A number of questions have been asked in this chamber and in another place concerning the introduction of an amending Navigation Bill more in keeping with existing conditions, and the Government apparently realize that the time is now opportune for certain amendments to be made. During a recent visit to New Guinea of the Public Accounts Committee, the representatives of the commercial community and those responsible for the administration of that territory brought under the notice of the committee the fact that trade was considerably hampered in consequence of the operation of the Navigation Act. Prior to the visit to New Guinea of the Public Accounts Committee the Navigation Commission also took evidence from representative authorities in that territory, who forcibly stated that its trade and commerce were seriously hampered and that the whole of  the shipping business of New Guinea was being forced under the control of one company. Complaints have also been made by the people of other distant parts of Australia that certain sections of the Navigation Act are affecting them adversely. They have pointed out that, without destroying those provisions which give protection to the seamen, alterations could be made with advantage in certain directions. It is surprising to hear honorable senators opposite endeavouring to forecast the contents of the proposed bill. They may be right, or they may be wrong, in their conjectures. Every honorable senator is anxious to know what the bill contains, so that he can decide whether to support or oppose it. All that the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  has asked is that certain obstacles should be removed to enable the work of the Senate to be expedited. 
I strongly resent that remark, which I regard as grossly offensive, and I ask for its withdrawal. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Newland).  - As  Senator Foll  has objected to the remark, I ask  Senator Hannan  to withdraw it. 
 Senator Hannan  was for many years an honorable member of another place as the representative of an important city constituency. During that time he probably voted for the suspension of the Standing Orders on many occasions when the Leader of the Government of which he was a supporter  moved in that direction. The Standing Orders of the Senate should be the servants of honorable senators. They have been framed merely for our convenience. If it is found that certain of them at times impede the progress of business, it is constitutional, sound, and logical to take act-ion to suspend them. Had the Min ister not given an explanation of his desire to have the Standing Orders suspended, or had he asked for the suspension of the whole of the Standing Orders, every honorable senator would have strongly objected. 
That is so. During the time that  Senator Payne  was Treasurer in a Tasmanian Government he probably asked the House of Assembly in that state frequently to adopt this course to expedite business. I think that  Senator Pearce  gave good and sufficient reasons for the suspension of our Standing Orders. He stated that it is desired to introduce a bill to amend the Navigation Act. Several honorable senators opposite, very unfairly I think, misrepresented his remarks. He stated that the reason for the urgency is that the Government desires Parliament to rise at the end of this week to enable members to join in giving a welcome to our cousins from overseas. 
I listened very carefully to what he said, and that is the impression which .his remarks left on my mind. That is not an unreasonable request. Is there one honorable senator who does not desire to extend the hand of welcome to the officers and men of the American Fleet ? Is there one who is not anxious to do his part in cementing the friendship that exists between the two countries? Honorable senators opposite have jumped to the conclusion that the proposed legislation relates to the unfortunate shipping trouble that appears to be imminent, and which I think every honorable senator desires should be avoided. I know that the proposed measure will have some bearing on that .disturbance. I was surprised to hear  Senator Barnes  say that he, as the  president  of an organization embracing 120,000' workers, would not presume to interfere in a dispute between the Seamen's Union and the ship-owners. Thousands of the members of the honorable senator's organization will suffer, and many of their wives and little ones will go hungry if the dispute extends, yet the honorable senator says that he would be loth to intervene in the dispute. There is too much of the attitude of non-interference shown by men who are elected te the leadership of industrial organizations. 
He forgot that others besides the seamen and the ship-owners will be affected. He loses sight of the fact that thousands of men in his own. union, and their wives and children, will probably suffer if this is allowed to go on. It was a most surprising statement for the  president  of the Australian Workers Union to make, that although he represents 120,000 organized workers, all likely to suffer badly as a result of the impending dispute, he would stand aside, and make no effort to bring about peace.  T  think that most of the trouble existing in Australia at the present time is due to. the fact that "men placed in responsible  posiions  by the votes of unionists do not exert their influence in the direction of bringing about industrial peace instead of turmoil. I was very pleased to notice the effort made by the transport group in New South Wales to see that the shipping of Australia was not held up, and their declaration  that they would not. stand for job control, but would try to see that the seamen did not throw thousands of other unionists out of work. t   Senator Grant.  - What did the Prime Minister say about fighting to a finish ? 
The Prime. Minister pointed out that at that juncture the dispute lay between certain sections of the community, and the Commonwealth Government had not been brought officially into it. While I give credit to the transport group for the action taken by it, I know perfectly well that the unionists will very often listen to honorable senators  opposite  when they will not listen to honorable senators supporting the Government. If honorable senators opposite would only bestir themselves, get among the workers' organizations, and help to run them, instead of allowing a few irresponsible individuals to do so - if they would only take a greater interest in the industrial side of the Labour mo'/ement. instead of concentrating on the political side - they would be a great power for good, and their efforts would tend to bring about a better condition of affairs than exists at the present time. But. with trouble looming ahead- at the present time, we do not find these honorable senators and their friends getting out among those who are likely to be affected. On the contrary, we find them busy in this Parliament seeking to make political capital out of the trouble, and using it as ammunition to fire at the Government. I venture to say that they could, if they chose, do more to prevent the impending trouble from coming to a head than could any other section of the community. And if they did so they would earn the appreciation of every person in the Commonwealth, irrespective of his political belief. Their political opponents would be the first to congratulate them on having brought the matter to a successful issue. 
The honorable senator takes up a peculiar attitude. Honorable senators opposite claim that they are the only sound representatives of the working class in this country, and that they alone represent the trade unionists, yet the honorable senator declares that a Nationalist Prime Minister has a thousand times more power and influence among the unionists than he- and the alleged working-class representatives possess. It bears out my contention that we on this side of the chamber more truly represent the democracy of- Australia than do honorable senators opposite. I believe the people of Australia recognize this, and I am sure they will continue to do so. more particularly after the admission by  Senator Hannan. 
While I thank  Senator Gibbs  for the interpretation he has placed on  Senator Hannan's  intersection, and while it might be more common sense than the interjection itself, nevertheless I must take the interjection and not the interpretation as conveying  Senator Hannan's  intention. 
No one on this side of the chamber is anxious to have an industrial dispute. Every one in the community knows what it means, and it is useless for the honorable senator to put up a smoke screen in. an endeavour to throw the onus for the trouble on the present Government. 
 The onus is absolutely on the Government. 
.- Any proposal to suspend the Standing Orders should be seriously considered. It is not an uncommon  practice  in this or any other Parliament to suspend Standing Orders, but I think on this occasion that the Government' have adopted the wrong attitude. To remove any doubt in the minds of honorable senators, let me say at once that I shall support the proposal of the Government for various reasons which I shall outline later, but I think it would have been better if on this occasion the Minister had taken more time, and first of all circulated the bill so that honorable senators of the Opposition would know exactly why the Government were seeking for the suspension of the Standing Orders. 
As a former state minister and member of a State Parliament for many years, I know that the Standing Orders are suspended on urgent occasions only. The Minister to-day has claimed that the position is sufficiently urgent that he is justified in asking the Senate to take this course. Are the circumstances so urgent? It is useless, as  Senator Foll  expressed it, to camouflage the position, or put up smoke screens. We know that Australia is threatened with one of the greatest industrial upheavals that has struck it for many years. I say this with a great deal of regret. On the one hand we have a very small section of workers, in defiance of other organizations, declaring war on the community. The effects of industrial war are in some cases no less severe upon the people generally than those of real war. Undoubtedly this is an urgent matter. No honorable senator will deny industrial rights to the workers. I have been a member of a trade union most of my life, but the members of one industrial organization are not entitled to declare war against all their fellow industrialists. It is the duty of the Government and of every public man to look first to the safety of the country and the welfare of its citizens. If the impending industrial trouble comes to the worst, drastic measures may be necessary. I am particularly interested in this matter, since I am one of the representatives of Tasmania, which feels the effects of shipping upheavals much more acutely than the mainland states. Although the Seamen's Union has generously  decided that the ships plying between Tasmania and the mainland shall be run for the present, if supplies are stopped the people of Tasmania will soon be short of the necessaries of life, thousands of workers will be thrown out of employment, and industry there will be  at a stand-still. It is the Government's duty to preserve law and order, aud see that the essential services of the country are maintained. I have not the slightest hesitation in declaring that the Labour party, of which I am a member, is under an obligation to the community to speak when a Labour organization is considered to have acted in the wrong. Labour representatives in Parliament should tell industrial organizations when they are in the wrong, as well as praise them when they are in the right. The present trouble would have been settled some time ugo had it not been for the stand adopted by the Seamen's Union. The transport group interviewed the Prime Minister and the ship-owners, but the seamen defied the other organizations, declared war, and gave notice of a strike, despite the negotiations that were proceeding. I believe that the ship-owners were prepared to negotiate for a settlement. 
They gave seven days' notice some time ago, and recently they gave 24 hours' notice of their intention to leave their ships. By that act the union has become an outlaw against the industrial machinery set up by this Par.liamentmachinery for which Labour men and all sections of the community worked for years. If the seamen choose to become rebels under the leadership of Messrs. Walsh and Johannsen they must take full responsibility for their action. I want to know whether the other unions  intend to support the seamen or the community, and whether they stand for law and order or for control by a small section of the community. I believe in rule by the majority. No small section should be permitted to interrupt the transport of passengers and goods, and bring distress upon the whole of the people. Is any Labour principle at stake? Has any attack been made upon the wages or other working conditions of the seamen ? Not at all. Their extreme action is merely an attempt to assert their power, and show contempt for the laws of the land. I do not know what the provisions of the bill are, but if I were in the position of the Government I should take power to suspend the ' coastal provisions of the Navigation Act, even if it were not immediately necessary to use it, so that in the event of certain occurrences the power would be available at a moment's notice. In the face of the serious situation that now confronts Australia, any reasonable measures adopted by the Government should be agreed to by all honorable senators anxious to conserve the interests of the community. I do not propose to discuss the merits of the Navigation Act. Although I do not know what is contained in the bill, I intend to vote for the motion so that I shall be informed of the Government's intention. If an attack is intended on any of the main principles of the Navigation Act I shall be found opposing it. But if it is merely proposed to suspend the coastal provisions to enable . communication to be maintained in the event of a great industrial upheaval, I am prepared to assist in giving the Government the power they need. I do not like to differ from my colleagues in the party in which I have worked for a quarter of a century, but when my conscience dictates that it is right for me to take my stand with honorable senators who support the Government I feel it incumbent upon me to do so. The repeal of the coastal provisions of the act would inflict hardship on not only the seamen, but also the shipowners whom it would hit with double force. The act provides for a greater monopoly and greater safeguards for the shipping companies than for the seamen. If there are faults on both sides in this dispute - and there may be - and the protection of the act is withdrawn, there will be a greater chance than now exists of arriving at an immediate and satisfactory solution. The suspension of the coastal provisions would cut both ways. It would allow the oversea boats to have a share  in the coastal trade and it would prevent the seamen from being buttressed in their present stand by the protection which gives them a monopoly of employment in the coastal trade. As a Tasmanian I welcome the Government's proposal to take this power. In a few months' time there may. be a Labour Government in office, and it also would require power to protect the country's interests in a case of emergency. I intend, therefore, to support the motion to enable  me to ascertain what the Government proposes to do for the protection of the rights of the citizens. Out of consideration for the thousands of people who would be thrown out of work, and particularly for the women and children who would be caused untold hardship, I trust that wise counsels will prevail. The Government should have full authority to meet any situation that may arise. 
.- Having listened attentively to the debate it seems to me that honorable senators who have opposed the motion have entirely misconstrued the object of the Minister in submitting this motion, and have failed to appreciate the need for adopting the course suggested. A Government that would not bring forward a motion of this character in a time of crisis, or when owing to an impending adjournment certain legislation requires to be enacted, would not be worthy of its position. I realize that the Standing Orders should not be suspended for trivial reasons, but, since the Minister has explained that the immediate passage of the bill is imperative owing to the proposed adjournment in honour of the visit of the American Fleet, I regard his reason for the motion . as sufficient. I assume that the bill will provide for an amendment of the Navigation Act in some important particulars in order to meet the needs of the com,munity. Even if I had no reason to believe that, I should certainly support the motion, since for a considerable period I have considered it necessary that certain important amendments should be made. Recently I had the honour of sitting at an inquiry held by a royal commission in regard to the effect of the Navigation Act on a certain portion of one of the territories over which the Commonwealth has .control, and I am well aware of the need for amendment of the act.  For  a considerable time Tasmanians have realized how detrimentally the act has operated. I am hopeful that this measure, which 1 feel confident will pass both Houses, will lift the cloud which has descended upon Tasmania because of the operation of the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act. It has already been pointed out that Tasmania has suffered considerably because of those provisions. The last  speaker  . stated that, in his opinion, this bill is intended to deal with the present shipping dispute. I say that no Government is worthy to remain in . office if, when a crisis arises - as is the case to-day - it fails to take steps to deal with that crisis in the interests of the whole community. I agree with what has been said here to-day regarding the cruelty behind the contention that the interests of a small section of the community should be considered of more importance than the interests of the people as a whole. The dislocation of shipping must of necessity cause hardship to thousands of people who are not directly concerned in the dispute itself. Notwithstanding that we ' have, after long consideration, and the expenditure of enormous sums of money, provided machinery to deal with such a crisis as that which now confronts us, we find that these troubles occur with alarming regularity. For the last seven years similar disturbances have taken place at intervals. I have experienced some of the inconvenience and have seen the damage caused by the cessation of shipping communications. Whether or not the Government has in view a remedy for  thi9  trouble I do not know, but I have had sufficient parliamentary experience to know that no Government would dare to bring forward a motion to suspend the Standing Orders in connexion with a trivial matter. It is only when it is essential, in view of the early close of the session, or because of some crisis, that such an action is justified. I have sufficient confidence in the personnel of the present Government to believe that the Minister would not bring forward this proposal without ample justification. I trust that honorable members opposite will give this matter very earnest consideration before the vote is taken. Some of them are not favorable to a dislocation of the transport services of Australia. They know from their personal experience that the members of the unions con- cerned are never consulted in these matters; that they have not been consulted in this case. 
They have not been asked by the majority of the mem- bers of the union to do so. Honorable senators know that in none of the troubles which have arisen in connexion with our shipping services between the mainland and Tasmania during the last six years, have the members of the unions been consulted. During the shipping strike of last year I conversed with many men who were unemployed as the result of it, but not one to whom I spoke believed in the strike. They went further, and said that the majority of the men in their unions were opposed to the stoppage of the shipping services. I asked them whether they did not believe in majority rule, and if they attended the meetings of their union. They replied in the affirmati ve to the first part of the question, but they said that they would not attend the union meetings because if they opposed the leaders they would be branded as "scabs" and "blacklegs." I argued that the majority of the members who did not favour a strike should attend the meetings, and thus place the other side in a minority as the real " scabs " and " blacklegs." These troubles are forced on the people of Australia without the majority of the members of the union concerned having a voice in the matter. Yet we boast that, in this democratic land, the majority rules. The men who govern the destinies of the organization give the signal, and the men obey. 
I believe that the majority of the members of the union are looking for a' leader who will distinguish between right and wrong, between democracy and autocracy. Some day that leader will arise. When he does the men who to-day are causing distress and misery in the community will find that their occupation has gone. I trust that that day may soon dawn. In the meantime I support the motion. 
SenatorJ.  B. HAYES  (Tasmania) [5.41].  -  I have pleasure in supporting the motion, as I regard the passing of legislation to amend the Navigation Act as a matter of urgency. Long before I entered this Parliament I realized that the Navigation Act needed amendment. I am, therefore, glad that the Government has thoughtfit to introduce a bill for that purpose. But why should we waste time in discussing a motion to enable the bill to be dealt with quickly? Why is it that in such an important matter honorable senators opposite areso desirous of adhering to the formal procedure ? The Government having considered the matter, decided that it was urgently necessary to amend that act; let us therefore deal with it at once.  Senator Hoare  asked why Government supporters " flogged " the motion to suspend the Standing Orders. I reply that we are hopeful that honorable senators opposite will yet be led to support it. If ever there was a time when the Navigation Act needed amending it is now. Thecrisis which has developed in the shipping industry has rendered it imperative that the existing legislation be altered. Because of an upheaval with which the majority of its people have had nothing to do, Tasmania is in danger of becoming isolated. I spent last week-end in Tasmania, and I know what even the rumours of a strike mean to the farmers there. To them stability in the shipping services means a great deal. They do not want to be dominated by the leaders of the seamen's union, or any other union; all they ask is that the ships shall continue to ply between Tasmania and the mainland. I congratulate the Government on introducing a bill which has that as its object. In the north-west and north-east portions of Tasmania the potato growing industry provides employment for a number of people. In a good year that industry represents about £1,000,000 to the state. At the present time the potato growers of Tasmania have marketed about one half of their crop; because of this maritime dispute they are in danger of losing the balance of their crop, as they do not know whether they will be able to get it to market. I do not know what the details of the proposed bill are, but I am anxious that legislation shall be passed which will make more secure the position of these men. The farmer is a hard worker; he works harder and probably gets less for his labour than do the men now on strike. Unlike them, the farmer cannot take two or three weeks' holiday whenever he likes, and still find himself in as satisfactory a position as before. If the farmers of Tasmania lose three or four weeks now it may mean the loss of a year's work. This year, when a fair price is obtainable for their products, it is disheartening to find that, because of the shipping strike, their year's work may go for practically nothing. With no cessation of the shipping services, potatoes on the coast of Tasmania will be worth £9 a ton and upwards for the rest of the season, but if the vessels cease running they will soon not be worth £5 a ton. It costs from £20 to £30 to prepare, plant, and harvest an acre of land with potatoes, and as they cannot be grown successfully in the same soil year after year, planning out the crop is necessary. Moreover, the land must be well cultivated and manured to obtain a satisfactory crop. Honorable senators surely must realize the position of these men when, because of something that  Mr. Walsh, Mr. Johannsen,  or some one else says, ruin faces them. If honorable senators saw the distress which even the rumour of a strike has caused, they would not hesitate to support the motion before us. The position of the fruit-growers in Tasmania is no better. As honorable senators know, Tasmania is a fruit-growing state, but to get the best results from that fruit, supplies must be forwarded to the various markets regularly during the greater part of the year. Unlike wheat, fruit cannot be hell indefinitely. A man who has reaped his wheat may either send it to market immediately, or hold it for six months. That cannot be done with fruit. It must be sold when it is ready, or it will rot. During the last six or seven years the fruit-growers of Tasmania have had a hard time. With them it has been a question, not of making profits, but of getting a sufficient return to carry on and pay the interest on their mortgages. With the threat of a strike overshadowing them, they do not know whether they will be able to pay their way, although this year, owing to the English market being rather good, they have done better than in previous years. It is necessary for them to reserve a considerable portion of their crops for the interstate market, so that the cessation of shipping communication with the mainland means the difference between success and failure for them. Yet they have had no part in causing the strike. The fruit-growing industry provides employment for a large number of persons, not only in the cultivation of the land, in the planting and protection of the trees, in the picking and packing of fruit, but also in the manufacture of spraying and other machinery used by every horticulturist. Large numbers are also engaged cutting timber in the bush for case-making and in the sawmills. Those employed in timber cutting experience conditions which would not for a moment be tolerated by the wharf labourers or seamen who, when they strike, do not pay any regard to the hardships imposed upon others who earn a living under worse conditions. This is a serious matter to the people of Tasmania, as every farmer and horticulturist in that state has already suffered considerably in consequence of the rumour of an impending maritime strike. If our shipping services are to be interfered with, and perishable produce cannot be expeditiously marketed, many of them will be faced with disaster. I congratulate the Government upon their decision to bring forward an amendment of the Navigation Act, and earnestly trust that it will be in such a form that those whose positions during recent years have been almost unbearable will be substantially relieved. I again ask honorable senators opposite to remember that there are workers who, without complaining, experience conditions which would not be tolerated" for a moment by the seamen or wharf labourers. Since they are endeavouring to prevent the introduction of an amendment of the Navigation Act, honorable senators opposite are apparently in favour of large numbers of industrious people being absolutely ruined. Tasmania, in consequence of its isolation, is in a more unfortunate position than any other state in the Commonwealth, as practically all of its produce has to be marketed on the mainland. 
Yes, but the producers there are engaged principally in the growing of wheat, which is not a perishable product. Most of the Tas- manian produce is marketed in Sydney, and, consequently, if the vessels which carry it are to be tied up in the manner anticipated, a great injury will be inflicted upon defenceless people, who have absolutely no voice in such disputes. I trust the motion will be agreed to so that the Minister may have an opportunity to introduce the measure, which we trust will be a means of relieving the unfortunate position in which many people, particularly those in Tasmania, axe placed. 
.- A good deal has been said at different times concerning an amendment of the Navigation Act, and only last week  Senator J.  D. Millen, in submitting a motion in relation to the Tasmanian shipping service, referred to the extreme inconvenience and expense experienced by the people of Tasmania in consequence of the repeated interruptions in the shipping services of that state.  Senator Ogden  has also had on the notice-paper for some time a motion relating to the position of Tasmania, and I understand that his proposed action in this connexion is supported by the Labour Government in that state. In view of all the circumstances, it is only right that the Senate should give the Minister an opportunity to introduce an amending bill. In common with other honorable senators, I wish to know exactly what is proposed, but I shall not have that opportunity until the motion we are now discussing is carried. 
The Minister  (Senator Pearce)  followed the usual procedure in asking the Senate to suspend the Standing Orders so that he could introduce an amending bill, and when he is permitted to do that he will be able to explain its provisions. Every honorable senator is aware that the impending industrial crisis will affect the welfare of the people of Australia. 
I do not know what the Government propose. If the proposed amendments are, in my opinion, inadequate, I shall be prepared to go fur ther, and if I consider them too drastic I shall oppose them. Under existing conditions Queensland, Western Australia, and Tasmania are seriously affected. 
Yes. As mentioned by  Senator Greene,  the Queensland sugar crop, which is at present being gathered, may be held up, and thousands of men employed on the plantations and in the sugar mills may be thrown out of employment. If our shipping services are dislocated the whole crop will have to be stored, at considerable inconvenience and at enormous cost to the growers. On one occasion when the sugar crop had to be stored damage amounting to hundreds of thousands of pounds was caused in consequence of a storm. In addition the shipping services to Papua, Thursday Island, and Darwin would be affected by a strike, and the people in those places who are depending on the sea carriage of supplies would be in a most unfortunate position.. We should give the Minister an opportunity to move the second reading of the bill, and then debate the measure on its merits. 
 A few days ago an honorable senator who is now supporting the motion referred to the dangers of amending the Navigation Act. That act, which was introduced in 1912, was not further considered until 1917. During the passage of the bill the members of the Labour party protected the interests of the seamen, and the act has been a benefit not only to the seamen, but, as  Senator Ogden  pointed out, also to shipowners engaged in the Australian trade. Prior to the passing of the Navigation Act interstate trade, which should have been handled by vessels employing Australian crews, was being carried by ships on which black labour was extensively employed. The Navigation Act has been of great benefit to the Australian people. 
 Senator Ogden  suggested that the suspension of certain sections of the act would facilitate interstate trade, but it would not mean anything of the kind. If certain sections  were suspended and Australian produce was carried in vessels manned by coloured crews, the waterside workers would immediately cease to handle iti The whole of the transport workers would become involved and a greater upheaval would be caused than is facing Australia at the present time. The amendment of the Navigation Act will not give the Government a clear passage. It is the policy of the Government to stand behind the ship-owners and other big business interests. I do not blame it for doing so, because it relies upon the support of those interests. 
This is a question not of standing behind the seamen, but of standing behind the people of Australia. I can see in this' action of the Government a danger to the White Australia policy. Honorable senators mustrealize how dangerous it would be to ' allow coloured crews to compete on the Australian coast with Australian seamen.  Senator Lynch  referred to the proposal by the Trades Hall Council to suspend the standing orders governing its procedure. He overlooked the fact that 24 hours' notice of that intention was broadcast by the authorities at the Trades Hall. The Government did not give any notice of its intention to act in this way. It is contended by honorable senators opposite that we on this side are anxious to create further trouble. My answer to that is that the Labour party is anxious to follow the best conception of law, order and constitutional government. That is a part of its platform. 
The other day [ told the Senate where I and the Labour party stand. We hold no brief for those men. They do not belong to the Labour party, and they have always fought us. 
They are not a political organization and they do not belong to the political Labour party. What did certain honorable senators who now sit opposite do in 1912? In that year the Navigation Bill was before the Senate. When it became law they lauded themselves to tha trade unionists and received a pat on the back for the action they had taken. The " glorious " act that they then took credit for assisting to pass is now, in their eyes, very  imperfect  legislation. If it contains wrong principles to-day, they must have been wrong; then. If they were right then, the act should hot now be interfered with. The other day  Senator Lynch  said that he had found it necessary to change his opinions in order to make progress. Once a man was rewarded with 30 pieces of silver for changing his mind. Had the 'great Robert Emmet altered his views during the progress of the fight that took place on behalf of  Senator Lynch's  birthplace, the honorable senator would say that he was a traitor. 
The honorable senator said that he changed because hewanted to progress. 
According to honorable senators opposite, the amendment of the Navigation Act will have the effect of bringing to an end the trouble that exists in the shipping world.. I do not think that it will. An amicable settlement will not be reached by actions like this. ' I do not see why we should fly in the face of the seamen, whether we agree or disagree with their attitude. The Navigation Act is very dear to them. It has protected them in the past, and they look to it to protect them in the future. We should seek a settlement of the dispute on lines different from those which are being followed by the Government. This will place in the hands of the seamen and others  a whip with which to flog the Government. 
 Mr. Walsh  is the last person to whom we should look for peace. The Government is threatening  Mr. Walsh  with war, not offering peace. I do not contend that we should go to  Mr. Walsh  for anything, but I, and those who think as I do, are just as anxious as any honorable senator opposite to bring about industrial peace.  Senator Ogden.has  appealed for consideration to be shown to Tasmania. As is usual with him, in the one breath he claimed that it is the richest state in the Commonwealth, and in the next breath his argument meant that it is so poverty-stricken that the Commonwealth Government must go to its assistance. He emphasized the effect upon Tasmania of the amendment of the Navigation Act. I do not think that his hopes in that direction will be fulfilled. We should not allow boats that are manned by coloured crews to engage in the interstate trade of Australia. Those crews receive the " magnificent" wage of10d. a day. We should endeavour to uphold the prestige of Australia, and maintain the high standard of living that we have reached. I intend to oppose the motion. 
I bring up the bill and move - 
That the bill be now read a first time. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. 
Givens). - There can be no discussion at this stage, which is a purely formal one. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
That dealt with the necessity for the Government to give an undertaking that there would be continuity of transport facilities between the mainland and Tasmania, which cannot be reached except by water. The many differences that the Seamen's Union has had with the shipping companies culminated on the 4th June in the union being deregistered by the Arbitration Court. Many years were spent in building up our arbitration system in order that all sections of the community might have the protection of the court, and so thatthe wheels of industry might be kept running. But the seamen's representatives now say to the ship-owners, " We are deregistered, and our award is cancelled, but if you do not give a written undertaking that you will observe the conditions of the cancelled awards, we shall tie up all your ships." The ship-owners on the other hand, have declared in effect, " We are quite prepared to observe the existing conditions on board our ships, but we refuse to be bludgeoned into signing an agreement to embody in our articles the terms of a cancelled award." There is a third party to this dispute. I refer to the people of this country. 
The Government feels that they ought to be. It realizes that these people have a right to expect it to prevent any section from taking the law into its own hands. Through the medium of the arbitration laws the Government will assist the seamen, but their union has refused to have anything; more to do with the awards of the Arbitration Court. In these circumstances it is veryencouraging to find, in spite of the statements made in this chamber thisafternoon, that many trade unions still hold the view that the Arbitration Court should be upheld, and that the stand adopted by the Seamen's Union is not suited to the times in which we live. The Navigation Act confers many privilegeson those engaged in the Australian coastal trade, and I am sure that honorable senators will admit that in no other part of the world are conditions to be found equalling those enjoyed by Australian seamen. We are told now by the leaders of the Seamen's Union that they do not want the Arbitration Court and the protection that it has given them, but that they are going to force their own terms on the community. Speaking for myself, I maintain that the stand taken by the unions in New South Wales who undertook to police the Seamen's Union, wa9 fraught with great danger. No union has the right to police another union, except through the medium of the law. I heard the statement made this afternoon that the Prime Minister had said that this was to be a fight to a finish. The Prime Minister has never made such an assertion. He advised the union what to do, and he is willing to assist it to reorganize and brins; itself into harmony with the laws of the country. 
The Government hopes, by this small but very important bill, to place itself in a position to deal with the serious situation that has arisen. It asks, under it, for the suspension of the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act which are covered by Part VI. Part VI. of the act, comprising sections 284 to 293, inclusive, deals with the engagement of ships in the coasting trade of the Commonwealth and of the territories under the authority of the Commonwealth. Under the provisions of this part, no passengers or cargo can be conveyed between such ports excepting where the ship is licensed to engage in the coasting trade, or in special circumstances where the ship is granted a permit to do so. Section 288. deals with the licensing of vessels to engage in the coasting trade. Any ship, whether British or foreign, can obtain a licence on compliance with the conditions laid down in the act. These conditions are - 
That the seamen employed on the ship shall be paid wages at the current rates ruling in Australia; 
That in the case of a foreign shipshe shall be provided with the same number of officers and seamen, and with the same accommodation for them, as would be required if she were a British ship registered in Australia or engaged in the coasting trade. 
The foregoing are the two main provisions. There is also a third condition, of relatively little importance, which requires - 
That where a library is provided for the use of passengers, and there is no special library for the use of the seamon, the latter are to be entitled to obtain books from the passengers' library under the same conditions as the passengers. 
This last-mentioned provision, it may be stated, is practically a dead letter, for the simple reason that in the few cases where coasting ships provided passengers' libraries such were discontinued. Section 286 of the act deals with the issue of permits. As provided in the section, such permits can be issued only - 
where no licensed ship is available for the particular service to a port or between any ports in the coasting trade limits; or 
when the service as carried out by a licensed ship or 'ships is inadequate to the needs of such port or ports. 
The carriage of passengers or cargo under a permit does not subject the ship to any condition as to payment of coasting wages, provision of accommodation according to the Navigation Act standards, etc. The new section, 293a, now proposed, will enable the Governor-General, in times of public emergency, to suspend by proclamation the provisions of Part VI. of the act relating to the coasting trade. This will enable any ships whatever, whether engaged in the oversea or coasting trade, whether British or foreign, to participate in the carriage of passengers and cargo. Let me say here that the Government hope that many of the powers to be conferred by the bill will not be found necessary; but the time has arrived when it should take a very firm and definite stand in this matter. While I say that we should be firm, I also consider that it is equally the duty of the Government to be fair to all sections of the community. I can give an assurance, on behalf of the 
Government, that the powers for which the bill provides will be used, if it is found necessary to use them, with the greatest care, and everything possible will be done to expedite a return to those happy conditions to which the people of Australia have been accustomed. 
In regard to clause 4 of the bill, I may point out that there is no power under the Navigation Act as it stands to suspend or vary the requirements of the act, even in extraordinary circumstances, involving, it may be, the general welfare of the whole community. A still more serious situation is that even Parliament cannot deal with such a matter? however serious a crisis may be, without considerable delay. All shipping bills passed by the Commonwealth Parliament have, of necessity, to be reserved for the Royal assent, and such assent must be proclaimed before the act, whatever it may be, can be brought into operation. Under section 70 of the Merchant Shipping Act 1906 the Board of Trade of the United Kingdom is given power, in certain circumstances, to dispense with the observance of any requirements of the Merchant Shipping Acts. Some year or two ago the wireless operators in the United Kingdom went on strike to enforce certain of their demands on the owners, being under the impression that as the law required that operators should be carried, and as no other operators were available, the owners would be compelled either to comply with their demands or lay up their ships. In the public interests, however, the Board of Trade ' temporarily suspended the requirement as to the carrying of operators. This action brought the men to their senses, and the trouble disappeared. Under the New Zealand Shipping and Seamen Act, also, the Minister administering the act is given power, under certain conditions, to exempt any ship from any specific requirement contained in the act. As the suspension of any provision of the Navigation Act would be a matter of grave responsibility, it has been thought well to confer the power to do so on the Governor-General and not on the Minister. The new provision proposed will enable any specific requirement of the act to be dispensed with in regard to any ship in cases where such requirement is already substantially met, or in cases of national emergency the Governor-General may grant entire exemption from that requirement. If, for example, the whole of our licensed coasting ships were laid up, either as a result of a lockout of the seamen, or of a general strike, it would be possible to suspend wholly or in part the licensing provisions of the act, thus enabling oversea ships in the public interest to carry passengers and cargo between our ports. Sub-section 4 requires the presentation to Parliament of an annual report giving particulars of the cases in which exemptions have been granted under the section, and the grounds upon which action was taken in each case. From the debate which took place this afternoon, I think that honorable senators are fully conversant with the difficulties with which Australia is confronted to-day. For my part, . I feel that the present is the time when a man should be bold enough to say what he believes to be right, whether it be popular or otherwise. While I do not suppose that if a general' strike were declared to-morrow any honorable senator would fail to obtain three meals a day and a bed, there are thousands in Australia who would not be able to do so. To those people we, who occupy positions of trust, owe a duty. I arn gratified to find that in my own state  Mr. F.  W. Birrell, who represents North Adelaide in the South Australian Parliament, and who for about a year was the  president  of the Trades and Labour Council for South Australia,  is reported in- the Adelaide  Advertiser  as having referred to job control in the following terms : - " This question of job control should receive serious consideration by .trade unionists. Under this policy apparently a few men on a job are a law unto themselves. A dispute may arise or be created, and those on the job deal witH it. This is called 'organizing on the job.' Tlie union s not consulted; in fact, it is helpless, these few men having the power to bring about an industrial upheaval which may possibly have a far-reaching effect. There is a danger in this system of which trade unionists should be aware, and there must be an insistent demand that those who are likely to be affected shall be consulted. Otherwise, we shall find unions financially wrecked and industrial chaos resulting." 

 Mr. Birrell stated that the position in connexion with the practice of job control had been fast developing in the manner he had pictured in his address, and the unions con- nected  with  maritime  matters had  stepped  in just in time to avert a most serious disaster. He understood they had acted in a very definite manner on the question. He could conceive of nothing which would eventually play into the hands of unscrupulous employers more than job control. It would break down trade unionism. It. might gain for individual members of a union some benefit, but the time was sure to come when the members of other unions, and even of the union concerned, would refuse to pay the piper unless they had a say in calling the tune. In any case, job control was . not in accordance with the principles of trade unionism. It was tyrannical and autocratic. It was the outcome of a selfish spirit that was the very antithesis of the boasted fraternity of trade unionists. " I trust that job control," concluded  Mr. Birrell,  " has been strangled, and that the members of the provisional Interstate Disputes Committee will bend all their energies towards the creation of a permanent body which should be given sufficient power to prevent either sideshowing a disregard for the law, and to keep in view mainly the necessity for industrial expansion, thus preventing, as far as possible, unemployment." 
I point out that  Mr. Birrell's  address was delivered at the Adelaide Trades Hall. I am pleased to say that is also the view of a great number of - unionists. When I ask honorable senators to support the Government on this occasion, I feel that this is a matter out of which no honorable senator should try to make political capital. Too. many homes are at stake, and there is already too much hunger and distress in our midst for us to treat the matter lightly. The Senate should rise to the occasion and give to the Government in office the power to meet the difficulties, so that the trade and commerce of the country may be continued without any friction between the parties. This bill is important to the whole of Australia, and to every industry in the country. I go further, and say that it is important to every home in Australia. I, therefore, have no hesitation in asking honorable senators to give to the Government the power to which it is rightly entitled in these difficult days. 
.- The brevity of the speech just delivered by the Minister in charge of the bill is in Striking contrast to the long speeches made by Government supporters when the question of the suspension of the Standing Orders was under discussion this afternoon. 
The Government did not have sufficient numbers to carry the motion. 
I did know it. 
That matter has been dealt with, and the Standing Orders provide that a question having been decided cannot be revived. 
The honorable senator is opposed to arbitration. 
I asked a simple question. 
After defying an award of the Arbitration Court? 
What is the Arbitration Court for? 
Because they have defied its award. 
Walsh has always defied the Arbitration Court. 
A Proclamation issued in pursuance of the preceding sub-section may providefor suspension for the period specified in the Pro clamation or may provide for suspension until the issue of a Proclamation revoking the prior Proclamation." 
Clause 2 provides - 
This Act shall commence on a date to be fixed by Proclamation after the King's approval thereto has been proclaimed in the Commonwealth. 
It will be seen that, if this measure is passed by both branches of the legislature, it will have to receive the Royal assent. We are asked to add to section 293 of the principal act clause 3, which I have just quoted. Section 293 of the act reads - 
The master, owners, and agents of anyship engaging in the coasting trade, shall be jointly and severally responsible for compliance with this part of this act by or in respect of the ship, and shall be liable to any pecuniary penalty provided' by this act for any breach or contravention of this part of this act, by or in respect of the ship, and where no penalty is provided shall be liable in respect of any such breach or contravention to a penalty of not more than one hundred pounds, and the ship in respect of which the offence is committed may be disqualified by the GovernorGeneral from engaging in the coasting trade. 
During past years there have been many suspensions of that part of the act. I know that exemption from those provisions was granted in the northwest part of Western Australia, and in other places. All along the line such exemptions have meant the giving of preference to black labour against white labour. 
I make no secret, of where I stand. The honorable senator chided me this afternoon and said that I was afraid to stand up to my convictions. I have always had the courage to state my convictions, and to act according to them. I say advisedly that I was opposed to those exemptions at - the time that they were granted. I deliberately say again ' now. that I am opposed to such exemptions in Western Australia, Tasmania, or any other part of Australia. My reason is that they constitute an attempt to bring about conditions that are derogatory to Australia, by giving preference to black labour to the injury of white- men. 
It does not matter if the people in North Queensland or other parts of Australia are starving? 
Carriage of passengers by British ships between specified ports in Australia. 
Ships in receipt of foreign subsidies. 
Licensing of ships to engage ' in coasting trade. 
Payment of Australian rates of wages. 
Indorsement of rates of wages' on agreement. 
Seamen's rights not affected by agreement. 
Evidence of rates of wages (award of Commonwealth Arbitration Court to be prima facie evidence of those rates of wages). 
Responsibility of master, owner, and agent for compliance with act, 
The object of that part of the act is the preservation of proper industrial conditions and the payment of proper rates of wages to Australian seamen. 
No one can say that on this question there has been any hasty legislation. I propose to confine my remarks largely to principles, and I say that this measure contains the principle that" the Australian coastal trade shall be reserved exclusively for vessels complying with Australian conditions. The Government- contend that this is in accord with the protective principle which has been adopted in regard to trade in other directions. Our mercantile is subject to competition of foreign vessels which are very often subsidized by foreign countries to enable them to successfully compete in Australian waters. The bill attempts to make the conditions of seafaring life on our Australian coast such as will induce young Australians to embark upon it as their vocation. 
.- I also oppose the second reading of the bill. I fully realize what a serious thing it would be to Australia if we should have a tremendous industrial upheaval at the present time. No honorable senator supporting the Government realizes it more than I do; but at the same time I think that instead of bringing forward panic legislation in both Houses of the National Parliament the Government would have been rendering more valuable service to Australia by using its power and influence to bring the contending parties together. I shall not permit honorable senators opposite to place upon the shoulders of the members of the Seamen's Union and their executive officers the whole of the responsibility for the possibility .of a great industrial upheaval. All the trouble that has taken place in. the coastal trade of Australia during the last seven or eight years has not been directly attributable to the members of this union. One dispute that hung up the vessels for a very considerable time was caused by the stewards and pantrymen. On another occasion the marine engineers hung up the coastal service. In the great strike of 1917 the seamen did not go out as a protest against the actions of the Steamship Owners Association. They simply became parties to a dispute that originated in the Ways and Works Branch of the New South Wales Railways. It was the railway men who threw down the gage of battle over the card system that was sought to be introduced by the Commissioners of Railways, and the seamen, in common with carters, drivers, and men engaged in almost every form of transport throughout Australia became involved in the dispute. I admit that since then certain occurrences may have caused some irritation to the steamship owners, but since 1917 the Seamen's Union, as an  organization,  has not been responsible for tying up the whole of the shipping of Australia. 
And on the other hand, the policy of the Steamship 
Owners Association is ,.to tie up all the shipping of Australia. Despite what any Minister may say to justify the attitude of the Government . in bringing forward this panic legislation,- the fact remains that the responsibility for the possibility of the shipping of Australia being tied up at the present juncture must be placed upon the shoulders of the Commonwealth Steamship Owners Association. But let me examine  Senator Crawford's  statement. The Minister for Markets and Migration  (Senator Wilson)  called it a job-control policy. . In the industrial movement of Australia to-day there are two shades of opinion. One type of union leader despises the idea of having a general strike, or even a strike of the whole of the men and women engaged in any one industry. . He believes that the proper method of conducting a dispute is to confine it to one shop or one ship at a time. It has not been the policy of  Mr. Walsh  or  Mr. Johannsen  to tie up the shipping of Australia as a whole. They adopted a policy which, though, it may have irritated the Steamship Owner's Association, was not at any stage likely to bring the commerce or industry of Australia into a state of chaos. I say that it may have been irritating to the owners, but one needs to understand the point of view of the seamen. The law or an award may prescribe that there shall be a certain, number of firemen, trimmers, and so forth, to work certain classes of vessel, according to the number of boilers and the horse-power of the engines, and also that there shall be a certain number of.  cooks employed, according to the size of a vessel. I have been through many vessels. On one boat I would find that the work in the galleys could be done with a certain amount of comfort, but on another vessel I found that, from the moment a man entered a galley until he came out again, he was practically living in a reeking hell. The same remarks apply to. the forecastle accommodation, and to the conditions applying in . the engine-rooms and stokeholds. The trouble is that the law makes no distinction between the different types of vessels. What may properly apply to one vessel may not be suitable to another. At any rate, instead of the unions calling out every man in the whole of the industry in order to rectify a grievance in regard to the conditions of work on any particular vessel, they adopted the policy of endeavouring to get those grievances rectified in another way. They made representations to the owners' association to try' to have the conditions improved in regard to specified vessels. So  Senator Crawford  was quite correct in saying that all the seamen wanted to do was to tie up one ship at a time. But that was not done for the sake of pleasure, or in an effort to disorganize trade. If those who understand seafaring life go down to the vessels and examine them, they will find that in 99 cases out of 100 where the seamen took action to prevent vessels from leaving port because they considered they had grievances to be rectified, their grievances were perfectly legitimate. The leaders of the seamen of Australia are opposed to a general strike, so far as the shipping of the Commonwealth is concerned. 
SenatorHANNAN. - The seamen of Australia have stood for arbitration almost since the establishmentof the Arbitration Court. 
SenatorHANNAN. - They do not defy it. 
When the honorable senator says that the seamen are defying the Arbitration Court, he is speaking in ignorance of the facts. During the last fifteen years I, as a member of the Industrial Disputes Committee of the Trades Hall Council, have frequently interviewed representatives of the Steamship Owners Association to ask for the rectification of grievances. On many occasions we have succeeded, and on other occasions we have failed in having what we considered legitimate grievances rectified. Honorable senators speak of arbitration.. Let them take other organizations. Honorable senators opposite do not hear or read of these things. Some months ago I approached the Chamber of Manufacturers in regard to a certain matter. There are many engineering firms in Melbourne whose managers and owners stand high in the social scale. The awards under which their employees work provide that each employee shall get two weeks' Christmas leave on full pay, provided he or she has worked for a year prior to the 24th December. In one case hundreds of men and women engaged in one factory had given a year's loyal, and, as far as possible, devoted service to their employers, but when it came to the 24th December every employee was given notice to quit. 
I say without fear of contradiction that in Victoria last year some 50,000 to 60,000 men and women who were entitled to annual leave of absence were legally robbed of it through dismissal. I can give the name of a great engineering firm in this state, which immediately prior to the last Easter holidays gave some . hundreds of men a week's notice of dismissal; but intimated that on the Tuesday following the holidays all employees were requested to make application for reinstatement. 
No. The newspapers of this country condemn the unionsfor what is called job control, but they justify the great shipping companies in applying to. the Arbitration Court to put the. Seamen's Union outside the pale of the law. Can honorable senators opposite mention one of the newspapers which has condemned those people who have taken part in legalized robbery all their lives. 
I showed my confidence in the arbitration laws of this country by advising every union to become registered under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I also advised every union to take the full benefits ofthe wages board system, and I believe that I had the honour of taking into the Arbitration Court the first maritime union to get a decision from  Mr. Justice  Higgins. The action of one particular union in going deliberately against the arbitration laws of this country does not represent the attitude of the whole Labour movement in Australia. From the very inception of that movement the Labour party has stood for the enactment and maintenance of the arbitration laws. The presence on the federal and statestatute-books of arbitration measures and wages board legislation is due to the constant agitation and propaganda, industrially and politically, of the Labour party. 
Even if I admit that on this occasion the Seamen's Union ignored the court, one swallow does not make a summer. I could mention the names of hundreds of men not connected with the Labour movement who day after day are committing breaches of the laws of this country. 
It is true that  Mr. Walsh  treated with contempt the application of the ship-owners for the deregistration of the union, but he told them that if they secured the union's deregistration the responsibility would be theirs. 
In what way? 
If the shipowners who pose as upholders of the law wished to act in the interests of the community the last thing they should have done was to ask the court to deregister the union. Three blunders have been committed during this struggle. The first was the action of the ship-owners' in applying for the deregistration; the second was the action of the Government in making the Federal Parliament the cockpit of this great struggle; and the third was the deliberate action ofthe Government in taking sides with the ship-owners from the inception of the trouble. 
The Prime Minister stated that this was to be a fight to a finish. 
On the 8th of this month, at the Rotary Club. 
Other happenings are on record which do not reflect credit on . the party that honorable senators opposite represent. There was a government in power in years gone by which was the enemy of unionism. I well remember that in my younger days  we  had a slogan that it was no use forming unions to obtain collective bargaining ifthe workers went to the ballot-box and voted for the " bosses'" against whom they organized. At the time of the 1890 strike all the governments of Australia took sides with the one object of crushing trade 'unionism. Even in the State of Victoria the military was called out and a certain officer gave the now historic order to "fire low and lay em out." A government anxious to safeguard the destinies of this country in the present dispute would have shown courage and said to the ship-owners on the one hand and to the seamen on the other, You must take into consideration the best interests of the people." 
 No; the. Government incited the ship-owners to treat the overtures of the transport workers with contempt. 
I know the power that a government and a Prime Minister wields. Once a governmentputs its power and authority behind the employers they can defeat any body of organized ' workers. In the 1917 strike a huge blunder was made. I recognized that from the outset. If a proper spirit  of mediation had been shown by the government of the day that strike would have been settled in a few weeks. I resided in Sydney for fifteen or sixteen weeks and took part in the whole of the negotiations for its settlement. When I returned to Melbourne my first duty was to visit the then Prime Minister (Mr.' Hughes). In Sydney I arranged what was probably a unique deputation that waited upon the then Minister for the Navy  (Sir Joseph Cook).  Prior to that meeting in the Commonwealth Bank on a Sunday morning, what was our experience ? The steamship owners said " No " to all our representations, and that the men were to return to work on terms which they would dictate. The outstanding feature of that dispute was that every government in Australia had placed its power and authority behind the steamship owners. 
The Government knew well that the dispute could have been settled in two weeks. 
By the spirit of reasonableness. The trouble having started, the objective of the ship-owners was that the men should be beaten to their knees. Notwithstanding the statement of  Senator Pearce  that the vessels were required to carry supplies to the hospitals, I say that all that mattered was' that these men were to be defeated. I am sorry that that same bitter, vindictive spirit is again being displayed by those who to-day have the power to bring the contending parties together.  Senator Guthrie  at an earlier stage interjected that it was unreasonable for the  Deputy  Leader of the Labour party  (Senator Needham)  to say one word in justification of the actions of the seamen. In the course of a speech which lasted an hour and a half, or longer,  Senator Guthrie  said recently that, although we had a mandate from the people, nothing ofvalue had been done by this Parliament. The honorable senator said that we wanted settlement in the Northern Territory, and then sought to find an excuse for the inactivity of the Government in that direction. He, therefore, directed attention to Moscow. 
When I left this chamber, after having listened to  Senator Guthrie,  I felt that I should like to change my boots, because there seemed to be streams of blood rushing from where he stood through the door of the chamber, and endangering every one coming in. 
Having failed in his duty to his constituents for two years,  Senator Guthrie  is now trying to purify himself in the innocent blood of the-' martyrs ofRussia. 
I have alreadystated that he stands for job control. 
I have neverworked on a job where job control could have been put into operation. 
The difficulty is that ship-owners believe that it can be carried into operation, and that they do not want it. 
They did that which they thought was in the best interests of the workers of Australia. 
Unfortunately, they looked in vain for assistance from the Government, which refused the request of  Mr. Charlton. 
 Senator Reid  has asked what can be done to control Walsh. I reply that had this party been on the Treasury bench the authority of the Government would have been used to bring the contending parties together. Every power at our disposal would have been used to preventwhat is likely to occur - a hold-up of the shipping of Australia. But rather than assist in preserving Australia from the disastrous effects of a great industrial crisis, the Government has used its power and its influence for political purposes, and has endeavoured to foment trouble. The honorable senator asked for an answer; he has now got it. 
He is the secretary of a powerful organization comprising 8,000 men. 
I repeat that he is the secretary of a powerful organization of 8,000 men. 
For honorable senators to say that one man has so much power that, whether he be right or wrong, he can sway 8,000 men, is a reflection on our race. 
 Mr. Walsh  was elected to his present position by the votes of the men in his union. They could remove him to-morrow by their votes if they disagreed with his policy or his administration. 
The right honorable gentleman asked me . whether the men were consulted. The 8,000 men in the union had no opportunity to decide whether or not they should be deregistered as a union, but I believe that had that opportunity been given to them, they would have voted against deregistration. I point out that those 8,000 men were scattered over the seas surrounding Australia. Honorable members will realize that it is a difficult matter to obtain the opinion of the seamen as' a body. I believe, however, that the great majority of them are in favour of arbitration. I know that the Arbitration Act has been of great benefit to every section of the seafaring community. But the seamen have been faced in the past, even when working under the act, by condi tions which at times have brought about a general stoppage of work. Rightly or wrongly, they believe that where men have what they consider to  be a wellfounded grievance on any one vessel, it should be rectified on the spot. 
I am not in a position to say what methods these men have of conducting their affairs. 
I do not know. 
I said definitely that a grievous blunder was made By the Government when it took sides in this dispute. 
Yes; the greatest blunder of all was the action of the steamshipowners in seeking the deregistration of the Seamen's Union. 
Speaking for myself, as an. individual, I say that had I been in the place of the seamen, I should have advocated action to retain the registration of the union. But an important factor which honorable senators are inclined to overlook is that the gage of battle was not thrown down by the seamen. 
According to the Minister who introduced the bill, the people of Australia are face to face with the possibility of a tremendous industrial upheaval. I say that the passing of this measure will not tend to settle that trouble. To  Senator Sir Thomas  Glasgow I say that among trade unionists there is that feeling of comradeship that he knows sometimes exists among men marching in armies. Numbers of them may make mistakes, but they are comrades still. There may have been a certain amount of disagreement, but there was a possibility of the parties ultimately being brought together. The introduction, however, of the bill now under discussion in this chamber, and of a certain measure in another place has incensed the unionists  to such an extent that the possibilities are not now as favorable as they would otherwise have been. Even if there was a certain measure of disagreement between certain sections, the actions of the Government during the last week or two have been sufficient to cause trade unionists to display that solidarity which only trade unionists can when the occasion demands it. If the Government desires to bring about industrial peace and avoid a great maritime strike, such as that with which we are now threatened, it should, instead of introducing panic legislation, allow the measures I have mentioned to stand over until Parliament reassembles after the departure of the American Fleet. Every power at our disposal should be used for the purpose of bringing the parties to the dispute together; and I am satisfied that if that is done, an agreement will be reached that will be to the satisfaction of the whole community. The Minister for Markets and Migration  (Senator "Wilson),  in moving the second reading of the bill; referred to the deplorable condition which would result if the strike should extend, and said that, not only the men, but thousands of women and children would be forced to the point of starvation. In reply to the Minister's statement, I may say that the members of my- party in another place and in this, chamber know better than any one what follows in the wake of a great industrial upheaval. Trade unionists, whether they be seamen, . firemen, car.penters, miners, or labourers,- do not enter into a strike merely to display a vindictive spirit towards their employers. They know the hardship which follows, and the suffering with which they and those dependent upon them have to contend in. fighting for their rights. If the Government would call a conference, I believe the whole difficulty would be overcome. 
- The passage of this bill will not prevent the convening of a conference. 
SenatorFoll. - Have not the representatives of the Seamen's Union defied the transport group ? 
Walsh was not opposed to deregistration. 
I ask the honorable senator to direct his attention to the bill. 
I ask  Senator Guthrie  to refrain from interjecting. 
I want to correct a few of the impressions of  Senator Hannan.  He has charged the Government with rushing this bill through Parliament in view of the industrial position, but I should like to direct his attention to the findings of the royal commission on the Navigation Act. On page 78 of the preliminary report of the commission submitted in August, 1924, honorable senators will find that  Senator Duncan  and I, who were both members of the commission, pointedly directed the attention of the Government to the shortcomings of the act. 
Yes. Our view was not strong enough to suit the views of the  chairman (Mr. Prowse)  and  Mr. Seabrook,  who believed in the total repeal of the Navigation Act. Had  Senator Duncan  and I joined with the  chairman  and  Mr. Seabrook,  we could have submitted a majority report. 
The Minister gave as his reason for bringing the bill forward and moving for the suspension of the Standing Orders the pending visit of the American Fleet. 
The royal commission drew attention to the great disadvantages large sections of the people of Australia suffered by reason of the operation of the act, and there is no doubt that those disadvantages will be aggravated by an industrial dispute. Therefore, the need for amendment pointed out in the report of the royal commission must be much more urgent at the present time than it was last year. On page 78 of the report the commission pointed out the inadequacy of the permit system to meet the requirements of the travelling public. I notice that honorable senators opposite are quoting the section in the original act, but section 286 has already been amended, and reads as follows: - 286. ( 1 ) Where it can be shown to the satisfaction of the Minister, in regard to the coasting trade with any port or between any ports in the Commonwealth or in the Territories under the authority of the Commonwealth - 
that no licensed ship is available for the service; or 
that the service as carried out by a licensed . ship or ships is inadequate to the needs of such port or ports, and the Minister is satisfied that it is desirable in the public interest that unlicensed ships be allowed to engage in that trade, he may grant permits to unlicensed British ships to do so, either unconditionally or subject to such conditions as he thinks fit to impose. 
That provision seems to be wide enough, and almost as wide as the provision the Government now seeks to. introduce, but the Director of Navigation stated in evidence - 
Except in two isolated cases he had always been advised by the Crown Law Department that the Minister's powers are limited by the fact that the existing services cannot be proved inadequate. 
The Minister has first to he satisfied that no licensed ship is available for the service. The Director has never been able to satisfy the Minister that there is no licensed ship. 
An application for a permit cannot be made by a deputation, but by the owner or agent of the ship requiring to carry the passengers or cargo. 
The oversea shipping companies have de cidedthat, in future, they will have nothing to do with permits, which they consider are not worth the trouble they have to take to obtain one. 
Foreign ship-owners will not take the responsibility or incur the odium that would attach to any proposal to break through the protection afforded toAustralian shipping companies. The report of the commission says - 
It seems fairly obvious that the permit system has not been applied very much to cargo, nor is it likely to be availed of for cargo to any extent, with the exception of the case of the Queensland meat industry, which, during the past two years, has sent large quantities of frozen meat to southern markets by the refrigerated space on oversea steamers. 
In the bill the Government has followed almost word for word the conclusion formed by the royal commission, which is given on page 79 of the report, and reads as follows: - 
It appears to your commissioners that this is a genuine complaint, due to the rigid nature of the act. The machinery, is there to enable advantage to be taken of oversea vessels, but it is so hard to set in motion that the oversea companies will not' bother about it, and when the individual attempts to set it in motion, it moves so slowly that the opportunity to take advantage of it is in danger of being lost. The act at present requires that it be shown to the satisfaction of the Minister that the service is inadequate. It would require great courage in administration to declare in advance that a service is inadequate, and it is not to be wondered at that decision is delayed, except in such cases where the interstate companies admit the fact. Great dissatisfaction was shown in many places because the Director of Navigation refers in the first instance to the interstate companies, and the inference has been that there is something improper in this, but it is obvious that such reference is often the shortest way of settling the question of inadequacy. If the interstate shipping companies admit the inadequacy, nothing more is required, for the Minister will be satisfied on such admission. On the other hand, if they dispute the fact, it is necessary to get independent evidence of the inadequacy, and the delay in establishing this inadequacy defeats the purpose of the provision. 
The Government has decided, I trust on the advice of the royal commission, to introduce this hill to get over a difficulty that plainly defeated the intention of the original act. 
The report was presented nearly twelve months ago, and has been open to the study of honorable senators ever since. So much for tlie allegation that we are being stampeded into passing this measure! The subject of job control has been raised, and it has been stated that the Prime Minister might very easily have stepped in and have brought about a conference between the disputing parties. I understand that the ship-owners were perfectly willing to insert in the ships' articles a clause providing for the maintenance of the terms and conditions of the arbitration award under which the service has until recently been carried on, so long as the seamen would give some tangible guarantee that it would be regarded as. binding on them. The seamen have -declined to do this. Neither has the transport group insisted on that guarantee being given. 
The' Commonwealth Shipping Board accepted that clause without any guarantee. 
A guarantee backed by a financial bond. 
In the commercial world if any person wants a guarantee that a contract will be carried out he insists on a deposit. 
Lawyers are needed, when one is dealing with shifty people who" will not stand up to their word, and who .openly preach that they will only be bound by their word when it suits them.  That  is the doctrine openly preached by  Mr. Walsh.  If the . transport section had any faith in their power to control  Mr. Walsh  and his union they would step in and give a bond of £20,000 that the clause in the articles would be obeyed, and then things could carry on. 
I know what power the Government possesses, but the honorable senator has his tongue in his cheek when he suggests that  Mr. Walsh  and the ' whole of his crowd could be jailed. He knows that it would be impossible to- jail all the members of the Seamen's Union,  and if . the leaders of the men were treated in that way, he and his friends would be the first to proclaim them as martyrs. When the Navigation Act .was passed with the intention of confining the work on the Australian coast to our own seamen, we practically' delivered ourselves into the hands of the seamen. 
We delivered ourselves into the hands of both. Honorable senators opposite have hurled at us' the taunt that the provisions of the bill which has been  introduced to-day are -intended  to help the steamship-owners. They are' the very provisions which  Senator Duncan  and I recommended to this Parliament', but which the steamship-owners bitterly assailed. How would it benefit them one iota to have the carrying of the coasting trade done by the Japanese ? As a matter of fact, when I showed representatives of the ship-owners that portion of the report they said that they would have preferred the recommendations of the Labour members of the commission. It is idle to suggest that the provisions of the bill will have the support of the ship-owners. This measure will hit both -the owners and the seamen, but it will save the community from the tyranny of both. 
It is no use Tor the honorable member to quibble. These provisions will enable the Government to protect the community from tyranny, no matter from which side it may come. At the present time tyranny is being exercised by the Seamen's Union. According to some of. the evidence gleaned by the Navigation Commission, the shipowners have been unreasonable, from the shippers' point of view, at any rate, in the- matter of freight. Since the Seamen's Union has proved itself unfit for the benefit which the act conferred upon it, I intend to support the bill. I congratulate the Government on having adopted the view expressed in the considered judgment arrived at some time ago by  Senator Duncan  and myself, after carefully weighing evidence taken in all parts of the Commonwealth. 
 I conceive it to be the imperative duty of any government, when the country is threatened with an industrial upheaval of unparalleled dimensions, to do what it possibly can to prevent such a calamity. In my opinion, the Government has adopted an entirely wrong course. It would have been better advisedhad it taken a stand similar to that adopted by the Premier of New .South Wales  (Mr. Lang),  who deplores, as most people do, the precipitation of  a big strike, because of the .hardship occasioned by unemployment.  Mr. Lang  took a hand in- a proposal to bring  about a settlement of the dispute in his own state, and, as far as he was able to go, excellent results were obtained. Much to the consternation of the Bruce-Page Government, the Commonwealth Shipping Board decided to comply with the request made by the transport group and by  Mr. Lang.  Why should not the shipping, companies also comply with it'? The position is as clear as noonday. The Seamen's Union, prior to its deregistration, was enjoying certain wages and other working conditions, and naturally, after' the struggle that has taken place to secure them, it is not likely that it will lightly give them up. I realize that the Australian seamen have obtained possibly better working conditions than have been secured in any other part of the world, and in their attempts to secure even better conditions than they now enjoy they have the - good wishes of the most enlightened section of the community. It was reported, in the press some time ago that some, of the seamen wished to have ham and eggs for breakfast on certain days, and some of our scurrilous daily newspapers characterized that agitation as a "ham and eggs revolution." For my part I say that, since the seamen, are doing the work of the world, they are entitled to the best of food. They are employed under trying conditions, and no doubt they will leave no stone unturned to make sure that theydo not lose the benefits they have already, won. I am reminded of the time when the late  Sir Henry  Parkes was Premier of New South Wales. He said that the function of government began and ended with the maintaining of law and order. I presume that this Government is prepared to preserve law and order, but it has also taken sides in the present dispute. While the Labour Premier of New South Wales has done his utmost to bring about industrial peace, the leader of the Nationalist Government  (Mr. Bruce),  in a speech delivered at the Rotary Club, and. reported in the Melbourne  Argus,  has intimated that he is " out for a fight to a finish." Presumably the whole of the members who stand behind the Government have adopted a similar attitude. Let rae assure them that they misjudge public opinion if they hope' to prevent the seamen from securing- their object. . 
The retention of the conditions awarded by the court.- 
They did not. They demand the observance of the wages and conditions that they enjoyed prior to their union's deregistration, and, so far as I am aware, that is all that they now desire. A fairly prolonged industrial dispute is imminent. At any rate, the Government seems determined to do all it can to accentuate the present difficulty, the Prime Minister having ranged himself on the side of the Australian Steamship Owners' Federation. 
It is a ' statement of fact, and it' is well at times to place such facts on record. The mere denial by  Senator Thompson  carries no weight. What does the Government propose to do ? Although the bill is not a long one, it proposes, in effect, to take- the very vitals out of the Navigation Act. Honorable senators opposite want to go back to the conditions that existed 150 years ago. Their action reminds me of a case of which I read recently, where four or five men were deported to Botany Bay for having attempted, to form a farm labourers' union in the east of England. Although legislation of that kind is entirely out of date, it appears to appeal to honorable senators opposite. They should  repudiate the statement of the Prime Minister that this is to be a fight- to a finish. . While many who take that stand will not be inconvenienced, they should realize that there are many who will suffer great hardship if this fight is fought to a finish. 
I have done so. 
I shall read from a report which appeared in the Melbourne  Argus  on 2nd July, 1925. It is headed, "Fight to a Finish," those words appearing in large type. Underneath are subheadings,' " Prime Minister's Stand," " Deportation Proposals," " Strike Fomenters Warned." The report -states - 
In a speech to members of the Rotary Club, whose guest of honour he was yesterday, the Prime. Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  declared, amid' enthusiastic applause, that if the seamen - and their leaders persisted in their tactics they must be fought, and fought to a finish. To the poisonous doctrines of imported union leaders he attributed most of the industrial trouble in Australia to-day. 

 Mr. Bruce is reported to have said on that occasion - . 
If industrialists as a whole can lead- these men to reason, there is very little after all in this canker. If not, we will have to come to a fight (prolonged applause). And if it is going, to come to a -fight, let us remember that these men have declined to remain within the jurisdiction of the Arbitration Court, and to observe their obligations- there. They haVe outlawed themselves from the industrial system that exists in this country.  If they  still persist, they have got to be fought, and fought to a finish (prolonged cheering). 
The Prime Minister has deliberately ranged himself on the side of the shipowners, and honorable senators who boast of their independence, but have neither mind nor soul of their own, meekly support, him in his outrageous proposals. All that the seamen want is that the conditions which they enjoyed prior to the deregistration of their union by the court, on the application of the ship-owners, shall be embodied in their articles before they return to work. They are right in adopting that attitude. If a man engages in any occupation without a clear understanding as to his remuneration, and the conditions of his employment, he has no claim at law. 

 - Senator Elliott, if he were here, would support my statement. The desire of the Government and its supporters is to make the seamen, entirely dependent on the mercy of the shipowners, but they will find that they are grossly mistaken, and that the seamen will insist that the conditions which previously existed should be restored to them. 
 -There  is not much in job control. 
In some cases I should have no objection to it. 
I consider that some ulterior motive is actuating honorable senators opposite. They have erroneously adopted the view that the present time is opportune to bring about a big industrial dispute. Whether that is so or not remains to be seen. With the possible exception of the Bankruptcy Act, the Navigation Act occupied more time of the Federal Parliament than did any measure now on the statute-book. Yet, without notice, we find ourselves with the Standing Orders suddenly suspended, and a bill of this character brought before us. Apparently all the forms of the chamber are to be exhausted in order to force it through. 

 - Senator Elliott, this afternoon, quoted from a report which was signed by only two members of that commission, which, I believe, comprised seven members. 

 - Senator Elliott referred only to the report of two of the members. No doubt they were able men, but that remark applies equally to the other members of the commission, who refused to sign the conclusions arrived at by the two members whose report  Senator Elliott  has referred to. This bill proposes to suspend the whole of the provisions of Part . VI. of the original act, including the amendments set out on page 214 of the Amending Act of 1920. The Amending Act of 1920 provides - 
Section 286 of the principal act is repealed, and the following section inserted in its stead: - "286. (1) Where it can be shown to the satisfaction of the Minister in regard to the coasting trade with any port or between any ports in the Commonwealth or in the Territories under the authority of the Commonwealth - 
that no licensed ship is available for the service; or 
that the service as carried out by a licensed ship or ships is inadequate to the needs of such port or ports, and the Minister is satisfied that it is desirable in the public interest that unlicensed ships be allowed to engage in that trade, he may grant permits to unlicensed British ships to do so, either unconditionally or subject to such conditions as he thinks fit to impose. 
The carriage, by the ship named in any such permit, of passengers or cargo to or from any port, or between any ports, specified in the permit shall not be deemed engaging in the coasting trade. 
A permit issued under this section may be for a single voyage only, or may be a continuing permit. 
A continuing permit may be cancelled by the Minister upon not less than six months' notice to the master, owner, or agent of the ship of his intention to cancel it. 
The Minister shall, within fourteen days of the granting of any permit under this section, or the notice of intention to cancel any such permit; notify in the  Gazette  the issue of the permit, or the giving of the notice, as the case may be, with particulars thereof. 
The operation of far-reaching and allembracing sections of that description is to be suspended. One would think that the Government already had ample power to deal with the present situation. But it is nob satisfied with that; it desires to repeal the whole of the original sections 284 to 293; which set out the wages and conditions applicable to the seamen, especially as to the endorsement of the rates of wages on the agreement. If the operation of those sections is suspended, the act will practically be destroyed. 
They were only two out of seven members. I take it that the proposed suspension of Part VI. of the Navigation Act of 1912 is sought for the purpose of enabling any ships coming to Australia to do the work of the Commonwealth at any rate of wages its owners wish, and to employ men on any conditions that may exist in other parts of the world. A government supporting such a proposal deliberately ranges itself on the side of those in favour of paying a wage probably not one-fourth of that paid to Australian seamen. The members of the party to which I belong do not stand for that. Honorable senators opposite favour the use of ships on which coloured crews are employed. 
Honorable senators opposite have no objection to overseas ships engaged on the Australian coast being manned by coloured labour. In  supporting this amendment of the Navigation Act the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce),  the Minister for Home and Territories  (Senator Pearce),  and the Minister for Markets and Migration  (Senator Wilson),  and all their followers are individually and collectively favouring the complete abrogation of conditions at present enjoyed by the Australian seamen, and supporting the introduction of low wages, such as are paid by ship-owners in other parts of the world. The action of the Government is an unworthy one, and notwithstanding what may be said to the contrary, it will not lead to industrial peace. If the Government thinks it can beat the seamen into submission by this procedure, and that the industrial workers supporting them will be compelled to surrender, it has never made a greater mistake. By exercising all the powers at my disposal I shall do what I can to defeat the object of the Government. 
During his brief second-reading speech, the Minister  (Senator Wilson)  who introduced the bill appealed to honorable senators to assist in passing it through all its stages as quickly as possible. The honorable senator drew a harrowing picture of what might eventuate if the threatened industrial dispute assumed anything like the proportions of other maritime disturbances. Having regard to the utterances of the Minister and to the speeches of other honorable senators delivered earlier in the day, one would think that Australia had been free from industrial upheavals until the present year. Three and a half decades have come and gone since we experienced a big maritime strike in Australia, and that, too, was caused by the ship-owners. At the time to which I am referring the officers, not the seamen, of the mercantile marine were labouring under grievances which the employers would not rectify, and so they formed an association and affiliated with the Trades Hall. When they we-e able to exercise more influence and power as an organization than they could exercise individually, they approached the ship-owners and asked for a conference, which the ship-owners said they would not grant until they severed their connexion with the Trades Hall. Prior to the' formation of a mercantile marine officers'' organization, the ship-owners deprived the men of the opportunity to improve their conditions, and they were not therefore likely to leave an organization which was in a position to assist in their grievances being rectified. They desired a conference, and although they were promised in a measure that a conference would be held, for reasons which moved the ship-owners at that time, the owners went back oh their word, and selected what they considered to be a psychological moment for a great maritime strike. At that period there was a considerable number of unemployed, and acute distress prevailed in the different states. Many of the employers of labour considered it a fitting opportunity to hasten a dispute in order that they might be able to weaken the cause of unionism. 
I shall show later who were the friends of unionism in those days and who are its friends to-day.  Thousands were drawn into the struggle which in a measure meant disaster to unionism. It taught unionists, however, that if they were to improve their position industrially and politically they had to organize, which they did, and that period can be said to have given birth to the great industrial and political movement now so. firmly established in Australia. Every time that organized capitalism or those opposed to labour set out to fight to a finish they may or may not win a temporary victory, but if they do, the vanquished are eventually the victors. Honorable senators opposite believe that all employers approve of the cause of unionism. I decline to believe it. They may as well say that there are no employers opposed to arbitration. I have an official report of an interstate conference of employers held in Adelaide a few years ago. 
Yes. 
It does not make any difference when it was held, as the employers to-day hold the same opinions as they did then. At this gathering which was held about 20 years ago certain resolutions were carried in favour of freedom of contract. In other words, the employers wanted to treat labour as they  would treat anything else and pay whatever wages they desired. At that conference the employers also passed a resolution unanimously against the Arbitration Act and thanked the members of both Houses who had voted against the measure. 
We had an Arbitration Act in force. The  chairman   of the conference to which I have referred; in referring to the Arbitration Act. said - 
  It is purely class legislation, and is for the purpose of strengthening the labour unions. It is an experiment to increase the. wages of workers and give them better wages and conditions in defiance of the economic law, and will prove a failure. This act will never work. We are all anxious for conciliation, but we will not accept compulsory arbitration. 

 - Senator Thompson says that our Arbitration Act was not then in existence. 
One resolution . passed read - . 
The Employers' Federation thank those mem bers of both Houses who by their speeches and votes opposed the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill when before the Federal Legislature. 
It is quite true that the Seamen's Union has been deregistered, and if newspaper reports can be taken as correct the members ofthat organization are not too friendly disposed towards arbitration, and to that extent are like many employers in Australia to-day. I have in my possession a number of pamphlets one of which has been issued by the Single Purpose League, an organization which supports this Government. 
Members of that organization are the conservative " die-hards." That pamphlet is in the main a republication of articles that from time to time have appeared in the Melbourne  Argus,  and on the title page is the title'"The Curse of Arbitration." 
Apparently the Seamen's Union also found that the Arbitration Court was a cumbersome and costly institution. Its opponents, the ship-owners association, ohe of the wealthiest corporations in Australia, having at its disposal unlimited funds, could and did secure the best legal talent available, and placed in the way of the seamen all sorts of obstacles to prevent them from getting what they were entitled to receive. 
They have made immense fortunes for at least some of their shareholders. Their stocks have been frequently watered. Not one word has been said by an honorable senator opposite against the shipping combine, although it has always exploited the community, and during the war was nothing short of a " professional " patriot. According to some honorable senators opposite, combinations of workmen are a danger to the community. 
I shall tell the honorable senator in a moment. They hold different views regarding these combinations of capitalists, who increase their freights and fares, who so arrange their business as to eliminate competition, who are in a sense one institution, and against whom  Senator Lynch  and  Senator Pearce  were arrayed only a few years ago.  Senator Lynch  in those days was in his element in vigorously denouncing . this powerful octopus. To-day all his ammunition is directed against that section of the community that we on this side represent to the best of our ability. The Leader of the Senate has asked me who on that side are opposed to unionism.  Senator J:  D. Millen on one occasion said, in effect, that unionism, numerically and financially weak, is all right; but numerically and financially strong and powerful is a danger which must be regulated. What does that statement convey? The honorable senator, I believe, expressed the views of the Government. The Government would lose no opportunity that presented itself to weaken unionism in Australia. This bill is a direct attack on unionism. 
When  Senator Millen  is present he can speak for himself. 
He said that unionism might become so powerful, if it were one big union, that it would have to be regulated. 
During the last two or three weeks vitriolic attacks have been made in this chamber and in another place with a view to prejudicing certain men who are associated with a particular organization. Articles that appear in the daily newspapers from time to time are often written at the dictates of newspaper czars. Associated with newspaperdom in this and the other states are men for whom I have the highest respect and regard. Many articles that contain incorrect statements, and are written for a deliberate purpose, do not express the personal opinions of the men who write them. In newspaperdom to-day there are powerful organizations, one of which is the Journalists' Association. The members of that association know - none better- that many years ago the lot of the newspaper man, like that of the policeman in " The Pirates of Penzance," was, "not a happy one." When they founded their organization and became powerful, they were able to obtain better conditions. 
If any honorable senator opposite were to say that trouble in the ranks of that association was traceable solely to the  president  and the secretary, the rank and file of the members would laugh the statement to scorn. Here we have an organization of seafaring men.. . Before the advent of these gentlemen to whom more than a passing reference has been made in another place, before their elevation to responsible positions in the organization, other men held similar posts. Was Australia free from trouble then? These men are not self -elected ; they are elected by the members of their organization. 
Honorable senators opposite claim to believe in democracy. What is the cardinal principle of democracy? When any matter arises affecting the principles, to uphold which they are banded together, both rank and file of the members' of the organization, and the office bearers, are! in loyalty bound to carry out the instructions of the majority: Because they do that, the officers are singled out for. special critieism. If some persons had their way, they would be crucified. Yet there are those who flippantly say, " If you get rid of the office bearers the trouble will cease." All that has been and is being said against the men who fill these high' and responsible positions has been said about every trade union leader since unionism came into being. What was said regarding the leadersof the maritime strike iu Victoria? 
It is apropos of this bill. 
Is the world to stand still ? Is no progress to be made ? 
Whose fault is that? We have a Commonwealth Shipping Line on which the Government was in duty bound to rigidly observe proper conditions of employment. The Government put those ships' out of commission and chartered others with a view to disregarding the provisions of the Navigation Act. . Trouble began, and there has been trouble ever since. After months of industrial turmoil, the Commonwealth Shipping Board set a good example to the ship-owners of Australia by agreeing to embody in its articles the conditions which the seamen desired to have observed. 
It was the Government that I condemned. 
The board did not then have the power to do what it is doing to-day. 
-With the consent of the Government. 
I take that statement  cum grano salis.  Certain men came to Melbourne with no other purpose than to seek the co-operation of the Prime Minister in an endeavour to bring this dispute to a conclusion that would be satisfactory to all parties. The Prime Minister, in reply, stated that it was to be a fight to a finish. But notwithstanding what the Prime Minister said, although they were discouraged and disheartened, they were still determined to leave no stone unturned to bring the dispute to a settlement as quickly as possible. For a time they carried on negotiations with the ship-owners. The deputation came from New South Wales for no other purpose than to prevent an industrial upheaval. Later on we know what the Labour Premier of New South Wales did, and, according to a report published in the press, the Labour Premier of Tasmania has settled a difficulty which would have occurred in his state. 
He has agreed to embody in the articles of the state ships conditions which the seamen enjoyed prior to the deregistration of the union. The ship-owners of the Commonwealth say, " We do not intend to disregard the award of the Arbitration Court," but the seamen say, "That is only your assurance. Put your signature  to  the articles, and the ships will be manned. ' ' The shipowners say, " We will not do that," and the seamen say, " If you will not do it we will not man the ships." That is the position as it is to-day. Does the Government honestly believe that by suspending the main provisions of the Navigation Act this unfortunate dispute will be brought to a close? 
I am anxious that the Government should try to avoid any recurrence of those industrial upheavals which have caused so much distress in Australia. But men will stand steadfast to principles, and be loyal to their organizations, and if it is to bo a declaration of war, as apparently it is to be, on the part of the Government against organized labour in the form of unionism, the fight will be a serious and a deadly one. 
I am not endeavouring to mislead any one. I have been associated with industrialism for a long period of years. I have seen and have been associated with many disputes. There is no one more anxioUs for their peaceful settlement than are members of the party with which I had the honour  to  be associated. We do not seek these quarrels. The seamen did not seek this particular quarrel. The ship-owners sought to deregister them, and succeeded in doing so. The seamen are not crying over that matter. They believe they are strong' enough to retain without an arbitration award those conditions they obtained through an award. 
Yes. Is there anything unreasonable or unjust in that ? Would an honorable senator who is a business man be satisfied with the word of another when paying an account? It is likely that some honorable senators would, but most people would want a receipt, because a receipt is a very handy thing to have. In the same way the seamen want something more than the word of the ship-owners. It is just an ordinary business proposition. 
I am pleased that the honorable senator has said that. There cannot be a dispute without two sides to it. 
Job. control again! "That blessed word Mesopo-  tamia."  The phrase has become an obsession with the Minister. Some pf those who talk about job control ought to go into the kindergarten school of industrialism. In every well-regulated workshop and factory  there is a delegate whose duty it is to see that the working conditions- are properly observed. 
The Leader of the Senate is not so1 innocent as that. He knows that in connexion with every calling to-day there are delegates, or shop stewards, who carry out the duty I have mentioned. 
They exercise control to the extent that they keep the employers up to the mark. 
There is nothing unlawful in having a delegate on a ship to see that an award is carried out. 
It is their duty to see that no award of the court is evaded. I am sorry that there is any award which renders it necessary to employ delegates or shop stewards. 
I am in favour of the Labour party's platf orm which embraces arbitration. There are some unions, not many, it is true, who are opposed to it, just as there are some employers who are opposed to it. I do not forget what the Minister, said in introducing the bill, that it was for the purpose of  settling industrial unrest, and preventing distress; but surely in his heart of hearts be cannot believe that a Government should take sides in a dispute like this. 
It is the duty of the Government to see that Acts of Parliament are strictly observed. 
The Government professes to be in favour of a White Australia, and of the provisions embodied in the Navigation Act for the protection of seafaring .men, yet in this bill it is proposed to put into the. melting pot all those provisions without which the act would be of little or no use for the protection of seafaring men. 
If that is to bedone, the White Australia policy will be sacrificed. 
It will go overboard, so far as shipping is concerned. Ministers cannot get away from the' fact that the Navigation Act was intended mainly for the protection of the seamen of Australia against underpaid and overworked seamen' in other countries. 
The employers of Australia were the first, to declare against a White Australia. At an interstate conference of employers a few years ago, the  president  said, in effect, "We want immigration. As we import commodities we should import labour, be it black or white." We do not object to any one because of his colour, but we do object to a man of alien race, unaccustomed to our habits and our civilization, 'coming here unless he complies with the conditions that apply in Australia. So far as coloured seamen are concerned, Ave know that they get- the wages the white man gets, so long as .they belong to the union. We also know that the objective of those who believe in having any sort of Australia, black or white, is cheap coloured labour, imported under conditions which- are a disgrace to any civilized community. I should like to see the Government hesitate before they take the extreme step of pushing this bill through. It is not yet too late for the dispute to be settled. I expect that honorable senators on both sides feel very strongly on the matter, but there should be give-and-take in regard to all proposals.  Senator Wilson  says that the passage of this bill is the way to settle, the dispute. I say it is not. . But it should be settled, and. as soon as possible. If the Government would only take the right course in one or two moves the whole trouble would be smoothed over? 
No, I do not suggest that; but the Government is not so big or so dignified that it cannot take part in an honest endeavour to settle a dispute which threatens to have such farreaching consequences. 
No one desires that sort of thing. I could not take  Senator Lynch's  statement seriouslythat   two or three men want to run the country, that they are a danger to the community, and may bring about an upheaval such as has occurred in Russia.N obody who is mentally sound talks about a bloody revolution being imminent in Australia. 
Time after time it has been said that a few men are desirous of overthrowing the Government of thecountry. Such an argument is . too stupid for words, because trade unionists can accomplish in a peaceful way through the ballot-box anything that is not contrary to the will of the people. 
I hope that I have been from the commencement of my remarks. I well remember the trouble experienced by the Labour party in securing the passage of the Navigation Bill, and how vested interest were ranged against it. I recollect how the present leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  defended every provision in the bill, particularly those affecting the working conditions of the men engaged in the coasting trade. If he were not associated with the present Governmenthe would be standing now as in years gone by for unionism, and expressing views similar to my own. 
I deprecatethe suggestion' that if two or three individuals were disposed of; perfect peace industrially, would follow. The Australian Workers Union, of which.  Senator Barnes   is  president,  has helped, perhaps more than any other organization,' to advance the cause of unionism in these southern seas. 
Its members number over 100,000, but if a dispute affecting that powerful organization occurred, does any honorable senator opposite suggest that the whole of the responsibility would rest upon the shoulders of  Senator Barnes,  the secretary  (Mr. Grainger)  and the executive officers of that union ? Would they be singled out for special criticism as had certain members of the Seamen's Union? 
Every government advances the same old excuse when it wants to take action that is inimical to the best interests of the working class.  Senator Reid  has been a stalwart fighter for unionism in Queensland in days gone by.  His  voice was then always raised on. the side of the workers. 
In those days all the leaders of. Labour who participated in the bigdisputes of the Shearers Union were regarded by our opponents as insane and dangerous men. Senators Pearce, Reid, and Lynch took an active part in the early industrial struggles, and they know that many disputes which threatened to paralyse industry were settled. No honorable senator on this side desires to see the trade and commerce of the country dislocated and armies of unionists thrown out of work. We therefore urge the Government in all seriousness to hesitate before taking the extreme step now contemplated. Surely. Ministers do not imagine that they will be able to get qualified persons to man the ships, if it is decided to commission them.If the seamen will not man the vessels to-day it is because the owners will not observe the award of the court. 
If they give that understanding in writing the dispute will end. Since the seamen will not work under conditions other thanthose, laid down by the court, it is not reasonable to expect that their services can be commanded, and, therefore, war has been declared against all members of the Seamen's Union. 
SenatorFINDLEY - The Shipping Board was appointed to manage a line of steamers that is the propertyof the people of Australia, and on those vessels the conditions that obtained previous to the union's deregistration are to be observed. Now the Government asks for power to abrogate certain provisions of theNavigation Act to enable it to employ any labour it likes: 

 Sitting suspended from 12 midnight . to 1 a.m. (Thursday). 


 Thursday, 16 July 1925, 

Nothing would be more regrettable than that Australian ships should be manned by coloured crews who would be fighting our own white men. Surely no honorable senator opposite would desire a fight of that nature to take place. But that is what we may anticipate if this bill becomes law. 
It is not a shadow, if we are to take any notice of what the Minister in charge of the bill has said: His language was not in any way ambiguous when he stated that, if it were considered necessary' by the Government, coloured labour would be employed on the ships. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator Newland),  - The honorable senator's time has expired. 
Motion (by  Senator Grant),  " That  Senator Findley  be granted an extension of 30 minutes." negatived. 
One reason which has been given for the urgency of this measure is that at the end of this week it is proposed" to adjourn Parliament for the period that the American Fleet will be in Melbourne, but a greater reason than that exists for the expeditious treatment of this bill. Honorable members who have objected to this measure are aware of the critical position which obtains to-day in the shipping industry. During the last week or two vessels have been held up one by one, and only yesterday more were added to the list. . Unfortunately, everything points to a general hold-up of shipping. No honorable senator can regret that more than I do; I hope that some means will yet be devised to avert such a calamity. From the remarks of honorable senators opposite one would think that this bill dealt specifically with the present dispute between the Seamen's Union and the Ship-owners' Association. 
The purpose of the bil] is to ensure that precautions will be taken to prevent a general hold-up of our communications by water. In view of the present situation and the possibilities before us, the failure of the Ministry to bring in such a bill would have been an evidence of criminal neglect of the best interests of Australia. It has been suggested that this legislation is intended as a blow at trade unionism, but honorable senators know that that. is not so. Any one who cares . to analyse the measure with an unbiased mind- 
The  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT(Senator Newland). - Order ! I call the. attention of  Senator Barnes  to the fact that smoking in the chamber is not permitted. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.-  The honorable, senator knows well that smoking is notpermitted in the chamber. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.-  The honorable . senator may dispute my ruling if he feels so inclined. He knows the procedure that must be followed. 
The argument has also been advanced thatthe purpose of the bill is to replace white labour on the ships with coloured or hybrid labour. 
That also is not true. This measure is an attempt to carry out the announced intention of the Prime Minister to do all in his power to maintain regular shipping services. 
I shall come to that directly. No one with an unbiased mind can object to the attitude adopted by the Prime Minister in connexion with this matter. We have heard a good deal of  Mr. Walsh, president  of the Seamen's Union. Honorable senators know that  Mr. Walsh  distinctly stated that he was opposed to constitutional methods, and that only by revolutionary methods could the union gain its ends. 
He said it when he was appointed to the position that he now holds. 
I do not care what any one says - we have a Constitution which makes usthe freest people on God's earth. Under the Constitution we are bound to adopt constitutional methods, and not attempt to obtain anything by force or revolution, if we desire to be loyal to Australia. 
The bill is a simple measurewhich provides that, if trouble arises, action can. be taken to insure the continuance of sea communications. 
I am not saying that it does, but unfortunately there are indications that it soon will. If the Ministry had waited until after the departure of the American Fleet to introduce this bill, and in the meantime the trade and commerce ofAustralia had been held up by a shipping strike, honorable senators opposite would have denounced it for its inaction. Surely it is better to provide for contingencies than to wait until disaster overtakes u9, and then seek to find a remedy'. It has been said that this is panic legislation; but that is not so. The Prime Minister's statement that this would have to be a fight to a finish has been construed to mean that the right honorable gentleman is prepared to do anything to injure the Seamen's Union. The facts, however, are entirely different. While it is true that  Mr. Bruce  did use the words " a fight to a finish," I desire to place those words in their proper setting, so that the attitude adopted by the Prime Minister may be correctly presented to the Senate. The Prime Minister is reported in the press as having said - 
At a meeting of the Rotary Club.  Senator Hannan  referred to the speech the Prime Minister made on that occasion, and said he declared there would be a fight to. a finish. What the right honorable gentleman actually said on that occasion was - 
The fundamental thing that is destroying this country is fomented, and increased, and aided by men who are doing everything in their power to prevent such prosperity coming to Australia as we long to see. If we can destroy that fundamental cause we will come to the prosperity that we so much desire. All smaller causes have no effect. 
The underlying thing that is Bapping our national confidence is this doctrine that is strangling industry to-day, and preventing the development that we might expect. (Applause.) If we could get rid of that we should see the end of the problem. There should be no difficulty in getting rid of it. It is not as if we had great sections of the community imbued with class consciousness. It is not that men and women to-day are being faced with burdens that are being placed upon them, or being denied fair conditions. There is nothing in our national life that should cause the canker to increase and spread. It is the work of a small group of people in this country determined to import into Australia that hideous, poisonous doctrine that is prevalent in other parts of the world. If ever in our history we want the clear recognition of our people it is in regard to this matter. What is the basis of this trouble which appears to be threatening us? Is it caused through industrial unrest and general discontent? No. The workers of this country - the great mass of them, at least - recognize that the conditions they enjoy are incomparably better than in any other part of the world. There is, properly speaking, no industrial unrest in this country. There is no mass of workers that wants to destroy the basis of our national life and substitute something else for it. The majority of our people is content, with no desire for any change but that brought about by evolution. 
  If you examine this industrial unrest you will find that it is almost confined to one individual section - the seamen. They, unfortunately, are the men who are employed in one of our national services, which is an artery down which the whole trade of the nation has to flow. Among the ranks of the seamen it would take a lot to convince me that there is any unrest. (Applause.) The trouble is due only and entirely to the way in which they are being led. " I have seen these seamen,"  Mr. Bruce  went on, " and have been told of what is happening. I have been told of a case when the fiat went forth that .a ship was only- to be held up at the last minute by the men jumping off and leaving her undermanned. I have been told that some of these men came back to the superintendent of the shipping company and told him that they did not want to do it, but they dared not disobey- the orders of the union. If the seamen could only take control of their own union I am certain that the trouble would disappear altogether. The seamen ' go down to the sea. in ships ' and they have not !he same control of their own affairs as other unionists. ' Co not be always ready to condemn the seamen for their pernicious doctrines. The seamen at heart are all right. (Loud cheers.)' I believe that they are going to get rid of those men that are trying to destroy the future of every industry of Australia, and bring privation upon every individual that is dependent on the worker. " I must emphasize this, point. The action that has been taken by that particular union, through its leaders, is not a matter that should merely be a cause of alarm and consternation to any section, but to every section of the community,, and upon all industrialists and trade unions. They are the people against whom these formenters  of strife are working. They are working against the very principle that unions have striven for, against the whole basis of peaceful settlement of industrial disputes within the country, and no one subscribes to that principle more than the working class. I am certain that the whole industrial move.ment in Australia is opposed to the tactics that have- been adopted by the seamen and their leaders. If the leaders of unionism have the' courage to give a bold lead to trade unionists generally and the workers of Australia, then the tactics of foreign, imported agitators can count as nothing. The greatest responsibility rests upon .the whole of the leaders of the industrial movement to show whether they will tolerate these tactics any longer. There is no industrial unrest and no necessity for any thing of the sort." . ' 
I wish honorable senators to listen particularly to the following: - 
If industrialists as a whole can lead these men to reason there is very little after all in this canker. If not, we will have to come to a fight. (Prolonged applause.) And if it is going to come to a fight let us remember that these men have declined to remain within the jurisdiction of the Arbitration Court and tq observe their obligations there. They have outlawed themselves from the industrial system that exists in this country. If they still persist they have got to be fought, and fought to a finish.  
Honorable senators should read what ied up to the use of the words which have been so frequently quoted during this debate. I stand behind the Prime Minister in the attitude he has adopted,, and I am sure every reputable citizen will support the Government in the action being taken. 
The whip has not been cracked. The honorable senator should speak for- himself and those with whom he is associated, but he should notdare to refer in such terms to honorable senators on this side of the chamber, who are free to act ais they desire. That is more than can be said of the members of the Labour party. If the whole of the speeches delivered during this debate were read by the people, of Australia, they would, soon discover who were their friends and who were their enemies. 1 am confident that those with whom I am associated are the true representatives of the Australian workers. 
It does. Those -who are supporting the bill are . acting in the interests of Australian workmen, because if it should become necessary to give effect to itS provisions hundreds of thousands of deserving Australian citizens will benefit. Do honorable  senators opposite suggest that if our shipping services are disorganized, and the transport of various commodities between the states is interfered with, people will not be seriously inconvenienced, ' and in many cases subjected to .extreme hardship ? Will any one dare to suggest, that in a time of shipping crisis any legal means taken to transport goods and passengers to various parts of the Commonwealth will not be a blessing to hundreds of thousands of people? I trust that this measure, which has not been brought forward- without due consideration, will have a speedy passage. 
That was decided at your caucus meeting. 
I cannot allow this opportunity to pass without entering an emphatic protest against the action of the Government in bringing forward an amending Navigation Bill at this juncture, and endeavouring to rush it through before honorable senators have had an opportunity to thoroughly consider its provisions. It would appear from a statement made by the Minister for Markets and Migration  (Senator Wilson),  when moving the second reading of the bill, that honorable senators opposite" are in this chamber for the purpose of doing the bidding of those who sent them here. Whom do they represent ? . 
The people whom honorable senators opposite represent are the shareholders of shipping companies, and the members of the great Inchcape Combine. 
The Government and its supporters are bringing this measure forward with the idea of assisting those who helped to return them to this Parliament. 
It is a fact, as the Minister states, that many votes may not be involved, but the combinations to which I have referred can supply the money, which is an essential factor. 
Practically the . whole of the financial support received by the party opposite comes from the faction now opposing the seamen in this particular dispute. A great deal has been said in regard to arbitration, and the manner in which awards of the Arbitration Court have been observed by trade union organizations throughout Australia. I know something concerning arbitration, and the way in which employers have endeavoured to evade the awards of the court. On one occasion I had the honour of holding the office of  president  of the Amalgamated Miners Association of New South Wales, which obtained an award in the Arbitration Court. For a period after that award came into operation the employers generally throughout the. state observed it, but after a while quite a number of complaints were received from mining fields in different parts of the state that the conditions of the award were not being observed. It was necessary for my organization to expend a very large sum of money to police the award. I was appointed an awards investigation officer to inquire into the complaints that were made. I had to issue summonses against quite a number of employers in. different parts of the state, and bring them before the court to secure for the employees the conditions and the rates of wages set out in the award. 
They did not; but they did what was just as. bad, in that they endeavoured to cheat their employees out of their rights. 
Only by the vigilance of members of the organization were the employees able to secure what they were entitled to receive. One would imagine that after a union had incurred the expense of obtaining an award from the Arbitration Court the' employers would, as a matter of honour, meet their obligations. 
Every industrial organization in the Commonwealth has  had a similar experience. There is not an award that has not in some instances been broken by the employers. One of the greatest offenders has been the Commonwealth Shipping Board, a body that was created by the Commonwealth Government to control the destinies of the Commonwealth Shipping Line. 
No. The board did not observe the conditions laid down in the award that was given to the marine cooks, butchers, and bakers union. That was oneof the principal causes of the trouble that arose in the Commonwealth Shipping Line. . 
I do not know. Unfortunately I was not an executive officer of that organization. Had I been, I should have made it my business to see that the Commonwealth Shipping Board answered to the court for its misdeeds. A test case was stated, and the employees were successful. . The board did not, however, ' apply the verdict to the whole of the employees concerned ; every individual employee had to sue it to obtain his rights. During this debate much has been said regarding employees who break awards.  Mr. Tom  Walsh also has been frequently referred to. I hold no brief for  Mr. Walsh;  but in this trouble I would sooner stand behind him than behind the shipping companies, as the Government is doing. By its partisan attitude from the commencement of the trouble the Government is compelling members of the Labour party to stand behind the seamen. Bight, at the begin- ning of the trouble efforts were made in New South Wales to effect a settlement. Responsible members of the trade union movement met to consider the means that were best calculated to prevent an industrial upheaval. I was at Parliament House in Sydney during the progress of certain negotiations. I saw there Mr: Tom Walsh,  Mr. Johannsen,  the Premier of New South. Wales,  Mr. Lang,  the VicePresident of the Legislative Council,  Mr. Willis,  and other responsible representatives of the trade union movement. What wasthe result of the activities of the Premier of New South Wales? After the deregistration of the Seamen's Union, the dispute hinged upon the question whether the award of the Arbitra tion Court should be embodied in. the seamen's articles. A discussion took place between the representatives of the organizations concerned, the heads of the Commonwealth Shipping Board, and the Premier of New South Wales, and the board agreed to the proposal of the Seamen's Union. 
The proposals were put forward by the seamen's organization, through the transport group, and they were accepted by the Commonwealth Shipping Board. 
That is so. 
That the boats would be manned, and the service maintained continuously.. 
I cannot say. What I do say is that the Commonwealth Ship-' ping Board considered the guarantee to be sufficient, accepted the assurance that was given, and signed the agreement. I assume that that attitude was a. right one, or it would not have been adopted by the board. Rather than see the country plunged into an industrial upheaval it used a little common sense. 
SenatorFoll. - Will the seamen work the boats of. the Commonwealth Shipping Line in the interstate trade if the coastal boats are laid up? 
I shall come to that point directly. If it was right for the board to accept the guarantees that were given by the transport workers group, it should be right for the Steamship Owners Federation to accept similar guarantees. 
The ships of Burns, Philp and Company, who signed the agreement, are still working, and the service of the Patrick Line of steamers will be maintained. During the course of his remarks,  Senator Payne  declared that the bill had been introduced for the purpose of ensuring that transportation between state and state should not be interfered with ; but  Senator Wilson,  who is in charge of the measure, made it quite clear that it had been introduced, for the purpose of bringing about industrial peace. Instead of doing so, it will plunge Australia into greater industrial war than it has ever known. Is the Government so barren of ideas that this is the only suggestion it can put forward to bring about industrial peace? Surely there is sufficient  intelligence among honorable senators  opposite to give us something better than a measure that will bring about, not industrial peace, but industrial war. 
I realize it, and that is why I am endeavouring to prevent the Navigation Act .from being amended, and am asking the Government to intervene, even at this late hour, and bring about a round-table conference of the parties concerned. If each party to the dispute lays its cards on the table at such a conference, the trouble will be settled very speedily. I listened to  Senator Wilson  talking about the distress that is likely to come about . if an industrial upheaval should take place. I have a vivid recollection of the privations endured by quite a large number of people during the nine weeks' strike in 1917. 
It was; it could have been obviated without any difficulty if a -little common sense had been used. And the impending dispute can be obviated if a little common sense is used; whereas, if. an attempt is made to apply coercive measures, the trouble will be aggravated. 
By the Government of the day. The trouble could be brought to a satisfactory conclusion within two days. The trade union movement in New South Wales,, backed up by the trade union movement in Melbourne, held out the olive branch a. few days ago and offered the ship-owners an undertak ing that the conditions prevailing in the Commonwealth Line of Steamships would be observed in the steamshipowners' vessels if the owners would grant the modest request put forward by the Seamen's Union, that the rates of pay and conditions of labour provided for in the recent arbitration award should be embodied in the ships' articles. The shipowners' reply was, "We will not negotiate on those conditions." A deputation from the transport workers group in New South Wales came to Melbourne to interview the Prime Minister, with the idea of getting him to use his influence in the matter and intervene, in the dispute. If he had done so, he would not have been the first Prime Minister of . Australia to intervene in an industrial dispute. The ex-Prime Minister  (Mr. Hughes)  intervened when industrial trouble was about to eventuate in New South Wales between the coal miners and mine-owners. . As a result of his intervention a tribunal was appointed to investigate the grievances of the miners. That tribunal is still in existence, and it has been responsible for preventing a great deal of industrial unrest in Australia. Had  Mr. Hughes  not intervened, the country would have been plunged into an industrial upheaval and a commodity indispensable to the manufacturing industries throughout the whole of the states would have been unobtainable. As a result of his intervention, however, the coal mining industry continued in full operation, 'with satisfactory results both to employees and employers. The. bill proposes to suspend the operation of the whole of Part VI. of the Navigation Act. Clause 3 provides - 
After section two hundred and ninety-three of the principal act, the following section is inserted in Part VI. : - "293a. (1) The Governor-General may, if at any time he considers it expedient in the .public interest to do so, by Proclamation suspend, for such time as is specified in the Proclamation, the operation of any of the foregoing provisions of this Part, as regards any ship or class of ships, and either unconditionally or subject to such conditions (if any) as he thinks fit to impose. 3 
A Proclamation issued in pursuance of the preceding sub-section may provide for suspension for the period specified in the Proclamation or may provide for  suspension ' until the issue of a Proclamation revoking the prior Proclamation." 
I am just about to do so. 
This is still operative. Part VI. reads as follows: - 284. This part of this act shall, except where otherwise expressed, apply to all ships (whether British or foreign), 285. This part of this act shall come into operation on a date tobe fixed by proclamation, but shall not come into operation on the date fixed for the commencement of this act unless the proclamation fixing that date expressly declares that this part is to come into operation on that date.  286. The Governor-General may by order declare that the carrying of. passengers between specified ports in Australia by British ships shall not be deemed engaging in the coasting trade. 
A permit issued under this section may be for a single voyage only, or may be a continuing permit. 
A continuing permit may be cancelled by the Minister upon no less than six months' notice to the master, owner or agent of the ship of his intention to cancel it. 
The Minister shall, within fourteen days of the granting of any permit under this section, or the notice of intention to cancel any such permit, notify in the  Gazette  the issue of the permit, or the giving of the notice, as the case may be, with particulars thereof. 287. - (1) A ship shall not engage in the coasting trade which is receiving, or which onder any arrangement is to receive, or which in the immediately preceding twelve months has been receiving, directly or indirectly, any subsidy or bonus from any government other than that of a part of the British Dominions. 
Penalty (on master, owner, or agent) : Five hundred pounds. 
Any payment for services bona fide rendered in the carriage of mails, passengers, or goods, at rates based solely on the actual commercial value of these services, shall not be taken to be a subsidy within the meaning of this section. 288. - (1) No ship shall engage in the coasting trade unless licensed to do so. 
Penalty (on master, owner, or agent) : Five hundred pounds. 
Licences to ships to engage in the coasting trade shall be for such period; not exceeding three years, as is prescribed, and may be granted as prescribed. 
Every licence shall be issued subject to compliance on the part of the ship, her master, owner, and agent, during such time as she is engaged in the coasting trade, with the following conditions :  - 
That the seamen employed on the ship shall be paid wages in accordance with this part of this act; and 
That,inthe case of a foreign ship, she shall be provided with the same number of officers and seamen, and with the same accommodation for them, as would be required ifshe were a British ship registered in Australia or engaged in the coasting trade'; 
That in every ship registered in Australia or engaged in the 'coasting trade, where a library is provided for the use of passengers, every seaman and apprentice shall - where no library for their . special use is provided - be entitled to obtain books therefrom under the same conditions as may regulate the issue of such books to the passengers. 
Penalty (on owner) : Ten pounds. 
Any breach of the above conditions shall be a contravention of this act. 
Before granting any licence, the Minister may require security to be given to his . satisfaction by the master, owner, or agent for compliance with the conditions of the licence and the requirements of this part of this act. 
In addition to, or in lieu of, any penalty otherwise provided, the Governor-General may cancel any licence if he is satisfied that a breach of any of the above conditions has been committed. 
No licence shall be cancelled unless an opportunity has been given to the master, owner, or agent of. the ship to show cause against cancellation. 289. - (1) Every seaman employed on a ship engaged in any part of the coasting trade shall, subject to any lawful deductions, be entitled to and shall be paid, for the period during which the ship is so engaged, wages at the current rates ruling in Australia for seamen employed in that part of the coasting trade, and may sue for and recover those wages. 
In the case of ships trading to places beyond Australia, the wages to which a seaman is entitled under this section shall be paid before the departure of the ship from Australia, and the master shall produce to the satisfaction of the Collector at the last port of departure in Australia evidence of their payment. 290. - (1) If the seamen employed on any British ship were not engaged in Australia, the master shall, before the ship engages in the coasting trade, make and sign, before a superintendent, an endorsement or memorandum . on the agreement specifying the wages to be paid to the seamen' whilst the ship engages in the coasting trade, and that endorsement or memorandum, when countersigned by a superintendent, shall have effect as an agreement between the master and those seamen. 
Where under the original agreement a seaman is entitled to be paid at a higher rate of wages than the rate ruling in Australia for seamen in a corresponding rating, nothing in this section shall affect his right to such higher . rate during the . engagement of the ship in the coasting trade. 291. - (1) No provision in any agreement, whether made in or out of Australia, shall be taken to limit or prejudice the rights of any seaman under this Part of this Act. 
Where, by reason of a seaman being entitled to a higher rate of wages while the ship on which he serves is engaged in the coasting trade - 
any deduction is made from his wages earned out of Australia; or 
he is paid a lesser rate of wages outside Australia than is usual in voyages of a similar nature, it shall be deemed that the seaman is not paid wages in accordance with this part of this act while the ship is so engaged in the coasting trade. 292. An award of the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration which is binding on or applicable to seamen employed in the coasting trade, or a certificate of a Registrar or  Deputy  Registrar of that court, certifying what are the rates of wages ruling in Australia for seamen employed in any part of the coasting trade, shall be prima facie evidence of those rates of wages. 293. The master, owners, and agents of any ship engaging in the coasting trade, shall be jointly and severally responsible for compliance with this part of this act by or in respect of the ship, and shall be liable to any pecuniary penalty provided by this act for any breach or contravention of this part of this act, by or in respect of the ship, and where no penalty is provided shall be liable in respect of any such breach or contravention to a penalty ' of not more than One hundred pounds, and his ship in respect of which the offence is committed may be disqualified by the GovernorGeneral from engaging in the coasting trade. 
Those are the. provisions of the act that this bill proposes to amend. 
But the conditions of part VI. of the act from which I have read are embodied in their entirety in tne consolidated statute. 
If the bill is put into operation, it will mean the abrogation of the whole of that part of the act. One or two minor amendments may have been passed, but the conditions generally laid down in part VI, from section 2S4 to section 293, are embodied in the  Consolidated Act at the present time. The ship-owners, assisted by the Commonwealth Government, have succeeded in obtaining the deregistration of the Seamen's Union: 
Now the union has not the protection provided by theconditions laid down by the court, and it is compelled, therefore, to insist that the ship-owners throughout the Commonwealth . shall state in black and white that, they are prepared to observe the rates of wages and the conditions fixed by thecourt. The ship-owners say that they are prepared to observe those conditions, and the Seamen's Union makes the modest request that they shall prove their bona fides by putting their statement in black and white, so that the union shall not be tricked as it has been many times in the past. . . If the ship-owners adopt that course, the seamen will be prepared to man the vessels, and the dispute will be ended. 
If the honorable senator who has just resumed his. seat, and other honorable, senators on his side of the chamber, had made their appeal to those engaged in the transport work of the Commonwealth, they would have rendered a service to Australia. Honorable senators opposite claim to be speaking for the trade union movement, but it would be reassuring to know that they were speaking on behalf of the transport group, including the seamen. If they had urged upon that section the observance of the principles of arbitration, and, more particularly, conciliation, many of the industrial disputes of the past would not have occurred. Have we read any speeches by them in which they have appealed to the unions to stand by arbitration and conciliation, and condemned the method of resorting to strikes ? With their tongues in their cheeks they now try to make the Senate believe that they are advocating conciliation and arbitration. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator Newland).  - I did not hear the remark. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  -  Senator Hays,  not  Senator Foll.  is address-  ing the Chair'.  Senator McHugh  may, if he so desires, take the proper' steps to achieve his object. 
We . have heard a great deal of the rights of trade unionists; much has also been said concerning the -practices of the shipping combine, but. the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in this chamber said nothing about the rights of the people of Australia who are outside the unions and combines he mentioned. I have not yet heard any honorable senator on this side, of the chamber speak, against arbitration and conciliation. 
Arbitration has become the accepted policy pf Australia, and we: on this side stand for it. Although much has been said regarding the present shipping dispute, honorable senators opposite have taken care not to refer to its cause. . From their remarks one might be led to believe  that something entirely new to Australia had taken place, but,- unfortunately, similar (troubles have occurred year after year. I do not say that the employers have never broken the awards of the Arbitration Court. 
 Senator Gibbs  referred to the awards made in connexion with the mining industry, and stated that the mine owners had to be forced to observe them; but honorable senators know that Government inspectors had to be appointed to see that the miners themselves carried out the regulations relating to the use of sprinklers for keeping down the dust, and for other purposes. No one on this side- offers any apology for the refusal of any employer to- observe the awards of the court. The Seamen's Union was deregistered because  Mr. Walsh,  the  president  of the union, asked for it. The judge warned. him what the result would be if the union failed to comply with the court's order to provide crews for the two vessels, and. he undertook to accept the full responsibility for not doing so. ' 
The judge then appealed to him to consider the seriousness of his contemplated action, a;nd  Mr. Walsh  replied that he recognized the gravity of the situation, but declined to obey the order of the court. I ask any honorable senator if he approves of that action of  Mr. Walsh. Senator Findley  argued that  Mr. Walsh  was elected to his present position by the members of the union, and that whatever action he takes in. his official capacity has the full- concurrence of the members of the union.  Senator Findley  may be in a position to speak for the Seamen's Union, but I should like to remind him that many seamen tell a very different story. Numbers of them have informed me that when the meetings of the union are held they are at sea, earning an honest living and endeavouring to . make provision for the proper maintenance of their, families, they have stated that there is a class of men who, while they claim to be seamen, are really " hangers on " at the Trades Hall, and that these resolutions are carried by such men in the absence of the genuine seamen. Where is our boasted democracy when such things can take place? The men who are the backbone of the union, and responsible for the transport services of this" country, have little or no voice in the working of the organization. . Information of that nature has been volunteered to me by men engaged in the shipping industry. '  Senator Gibbs  said that all that the seamen ask for is that the last award of the court shall be embodied in the ship's articles, but that the representative of the shipping companies had refused to accede to their request. What are the' facts? A delegation representing the transport workers came to Melbourne from Sydney with the object of meeting the steamship owners. A meeting of the two parties was duly held, when the members of the delegation said that they had full' power to speak on behalf of the Seamen's Union. The ship-owners replied that if that were so the delegates; as proof of their bona fides, - should return to Sydney and persuade the Seamen's Union to withdraw its threat to strike on the 14th of this month, arid that if that were done the ship-owners, would be prepared to, carry the negotiations to what they hoped would be a successful conclusion. 
The door to an agreement is still open. The transport workers who came to Melbourne had no authority to speak on behalf of the Seamen's Union. 
I say, without hesitation that the Government is doing a great service to Australia by introducing this measure. It is not the duty of the Government to destroy trade unionism, nor is it attempting to do so in this legislation. But it is its duty to see that' the transport services of the Commonwealth are carried on, arid to provide itself with power to maintain essential services between the states. Honorable senators opposite who complain that the Government has" neglected its duty are equally responsible  for seeing that the rights of all sections of the community are protected, and that proper services are maintained. .1 support the bill. 
I cannot allow the second reading of such an important measure as this to go to the vote without first expressing my opinion regarding it. Some years ago a man who figured prominently in the political life of Australia said, "Under no circumstances will one stone from the temple of labour be removed." To-day I see two honorable senators who, when these words were uttered, were supporters of the gentleman who made them, but are to-day trying to remove one of the corner-stones of the Labour party's policy. One of them is now a Minister; the other once held office in the Cabinet, but was afterwards removed from the Ministry. Although removed from office, he was used as a working horse, by the Government this afternoon'; while we were waiting for some honorable senators to make their appearance, he put in a good hour's work. 
The honorable senator was treated as a draught horse and placed in the shafts. He was once a 
Minister, but his services in that capacity  were dispensed with. 
Possibly the mule is on that side of the chamber and the horse on this. The honorable senator, who was once a leader in the team, is now in the shafts, and this afternoon when the whip was cracked by his bosses he did not like to come up to the collar. The Government had to adopt many measures' in order to achieve its ends, included in which was the dispatch of an urgent message requesting the attendance of  Senator Guthrie  to give it a sufficient majority to carry the motion which was then under discussion. The honorable senator will always respond to the whip and do his job. 
If the honorable senator and those master tacticians with whom he is associated knew their work it  would not have been necessary to compel  Senator Guthrie  to fly to Melbourne in the belief that a revolution had broken out and that his presence was immediately required in the Senate 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT .(Senator Newland).  - I ask the honorable senator to confine his remarks to the bill. 
I am leading up to the bill, which is one of great importance. 
The hilarity displayed during the discussion of this measure and the jocose spirit in which honorable .senators opposite have attempted to deal with it, makes one regret that the Government which they are supporting will for the next few months nave the fate of the Commonwealth in its hands. The Minister  (Senator . Wilson),  in moving the second reading of the bill, referred to the .fact that the Seamen's Union has been deregistered. The union was deregistered on the application of' the steam-ship owners. 
No; the ship-! owners were able to retain ' the 'services of leading King's counsel, but the' unfortunate seamen were "in the unfortunate position of being unable to fight their case in the court established for their protection. It is easy to see that this is all pact of a big political  mme.  The Minister . (Senaltor Wilson) is not prepared to tellthe people what we allknow is behind the proposal. It is a determined attempt on the part of the capitalists, who are strongly represented in thischamber to destroy trade unionism in Australia. 
SenatorFoll.  -  The honorable senator does not believe . that. 
I sincerely believe that thatis theGovernment's intention, and that is the principal reason why this measure is being bludgeonedthrough. Honorable senators opposite do not want the people of Australia to hear the truth. 
Because you had to. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator Newland). - The honorable senator must address the Chair. 
Every honorable senator has. the right to express to the people of Australia his opinion on the drastic action which the Government is now taking. One of the reasons which the Government gives for the hurried passage of this measure is that Parliament is goinginto recess during the forthcoming visit of the American Fleet. I presume "that during the visit honorable senators will be enjoying a holiday, but I am more concerned with the conditions prevailing in this country than I am with the prospects of a holiday. We shall be only too happy to welcome our American brothers, but the welfare of the Australian people is of more importance than welcoming people from overseas. I am glad that the vessels of the American Fleet are visiting Australia, and that from 20,000 to' '30,000 of the United States navy men will have the opportunity of learning that we had a Navigation Act framed with the object of protecting their brother seamen on this side of the world, but that it is now being practically repealed in order to meet the wishes of a certain section opposed to trade unionism. I am hopeful that these men who are coming from overseas will  on  their return act as organizers in their own country, and will endeavour to see that the conditions in America are at least equal to those which existed here before this obnoxious measure was introduced. The effect of this amending bill is to virtually wipe out the Navigation Act. It issurprising to find the Government introducing this bill merely because it is afraid of two men. Has itnot the courage to deal with them,ifit so desires, in any other way? If the Labour party were in power to-day the presentdispute would not last . 24 hours, (notwithstanding any action which might be taken by those persons whom honorable senators opposite are representing and who supply them with braids with which to conduct their election campaign. 
SenatorFoll.  -  More electioneering funds ave obtained by the partyon that sida of the chamber than by this party of which I am . a . member. "Jimmy" Catts told thepeople where themoney came from. 
ApparentlySen torFoll is not in possessionof the whole of the facts, or he would not make such a statement. We are informedthat the bill is urgent, and that immediate action must be taken; but the Government knew last week what was pending, and the Senate couldhave met on Monday of this week. If thathad been done more time could have been given to the consideration of the bill.  Senator Reid  does not even understand what the measure contains and appeared greatly surprised when certain of its provisions were quoted by  Senator Gibbs.  Even at this stage the Government should withdraw the bill, which isaltogether obnoxious, and will not be of the least assistance in bringing about industrial peace. I have had to listen to a lot of claptrap from honorable senatorsoppositewho know little concerning ithe industrial movement. Probably they would liketo select our leaders. If the Government could elect our leaders matters would, of course, go swimmingly. There would not be any industrial trouble, there would not be any friction, because the men would be under the whip of the Government, working all hours, for any pay that it thought fit to give them. I inform honorable senators opposite that the Labour movement will not allow them to select Its leaders. It will select its own leaders. Every union selects the officers that it wants, and will not agree to selection by any government. Honorable senators talk about the starvation that is likely to ensue ! On the face  of the threat of the Prime Minister, ihat he is going to fight the men to a finish - 
He did say it. He has not denied having said it. I tell the Prime Minister and the members of the Government that there is still a little fight left in the working class of Australia. If honorable senators think that the action of any government will break the virile spirit of the Australian working man they are mistaken. This bill is an attempt to do that. From, it something else will be worked up. When the workers of Australia become alive to the fact that there is in the Commonwealth a National Government which would break down the White Australia policy and take away from our seamen the good conditions that exist in the ' coasting trade, they will give it a very short lease of life. 
There are no Chinese working on the coast at present. Unfortunately, there are many Chinese in Queensland. My concern is that honorable senators opposite want to bring a greater number of Chinese to this country. . . 
And I say that  Senator Foll  is a liar! 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Newland)  . - Order ! I ask the honorable senator to withdraw that expression. 
 Senator Foll  called me a liar. You, sir. should have heard him. He has insulted me three or four times. 
 The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  - If the honorable senator was' called a liar he had a right to ask that the expression be withdrawn. Had he done so I should immediately have demanded its withdrawal. If  Senator Foll  used that expression, I ask him to withdraw it. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  . - I ask the honorable senator to withdraw that expression. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.-  I again ask  Senator Foll  to withdraw the expression. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.-  I now. ask  Senator McHugh  also to withdraw the expression. 
I withdraw it. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT. - These interjections only lead to disorder, and I ask that they be discontinued. 
I was developing' an argument that annoyed  Senator Foll.  I do not like to annoy any one. I suppose that I am one of the most peaceable nien in Australia. I merely want to show what is happening in Australia. I can see a very great deal oftrouble ahead if this dispute develops  We are not concerned about individuals. The Labour movement, however, will be greatly concerned if the trouble extends. The policy of the Labour party is, and has been for a very long time, conciliation and arbitration. That is a plank of our platform. I am sorry that the Seamen's Union was deregistered, at the instance of the ship-owners. I think that the shipowners acted very unwisely. When two sections of the community enter into what promises to become a very big dispute, it is a fair thing for the Government to attempt conciliation. Surely we are not altogether devoid of common sense ! Although holding different political beliefs, I think that honorable senators on both sides are anxious to act in the best interests of the people of Australia. I may think that my way of doing things is the better way. If we get at one another's throats, so to speak, something must eventually break. I do not want the industrial life of this country to be broken ; I do not want any home in Australia to be broken up. But if the gage is thrown down, the working class will fight for its rights. That is why I say that the Government, which possesses a great moral influence, should bring' the warring parties together. That can be done. I hope that oven at this late hour the Government will drop the bill and say, " These parties must be brought together, and the matter must be fixed up." I feel sure that the differences which now exist could be satisfactorily adjusted. Semi-internecine warfare would thus be saved. We have had ex-  perience  of the results of strikes. They do not help Australian industry or the people of Australia generally. In a dispute in which great principles are involved - and both parties to this dispute say that big principles are now involved - the effect is felt all over Australia. I do not want 300,000 or 400,000 men to be thrown out of employment. I know that it is possible for the Government to introduce labour to take the place of Australian labour. Such action, however would only aggravate the trouble. The Australian working man will not revert to the conditions' under which he worked many years ago. 
The ex-Premier of South Australia,  Sir Henry  Barwell, said four years ago that if the mines could not be made to pay at the ruling rate of wages, he would force the men to work for 9s. a day. The ruling rate of wages at that time was 13s. .2d. a day. 
 Sir Henry  Barwell was kicked out of office by the people of South Australia. 
I suppose that  Senator Wilson  would like to see the men back at work in the mines for 9s. a day. A very learned judge in South Australia,  Mr. Justice  Gordon, said that an industry which  could not pay a living wage to its employees had no right to exist.  That is a sound policy. If an industry could pay only 6s. a day, does  Senator Wilson  suggest that men should work for that rate ? 
That is the logical conclusion to his argument. 
Six shillings stands to 9s. in almost the same relation that 9s. does to 13s. If a mine can pay only 2s. or 3s. a day, I suppose that  Senator Wilson  would pay that wage if he 'could obtain the labour for it. Australian labour has progressed beyond that point. It has taken years to reach the position that it now occupies. 
I presume that the honorable senator refers to  tributors  They are like men who back race-horses: they indulge in a gamble. I know several men who met with very great success in that way. They could have been engaged at other work, but they tramped through the country on a prospecting tour, and when they did make a strike it was a rich one. Such an argument cannot be applied to industry generally. I am sure that  Senator Lynch  will agree that the labourer is worthy of his hire. Every man is entitled  to a living wage. That is the principle for which I - ;aud: I hope every honorable senator - stands. It is a big principle, and it has helped to make Australia, a great nation. There are present to-night honorable  senators who' helped to blaze 'the track.  Senator Lynch  did so for a while, but he deviated from it, and nobody is more sorry than he. I hope that honorable senators will not even suggest that the ' standard of living enjoyed by the Australian worker should be lowered. 
It should be raised. Tlie Seamen's Union put a fair proposition to the ship-owners. They asked that the articles should provide for their getting what they were previously receiving under an Arbitration Court award. 
They did ,'iot. They were deregistered. The ship-owners made an application to- have them deregistered, and the union did not have enough money to fight the case. And for this honorable senators opposite are prepared to throw this country into the greatest industrial turmoil it has ever seen. We on this side of the chamber are accused of having no heart, but we have a heart for those who send us here. We do not want industrial turmoil if it can be avoided by the exercise of a little common sense. 
Why does not  Senator Greene  talk in that way to the ship-owners ? I am prepared to talk to the men if the honorable senator willi talk to theship-owners. I guarantee if he and I and one or two more could get into conference with these people, we would settle the whole trouble amicably. 
Withdrew this bill, and give us. a chance to do it. 
If Labour was in power, the trouble would not last for 24 hours. 
What influence has  Senator Glasgow  used to get the trouble settled?  His  influence is being used to try to put a certain amount of fear into a section of the. workers, and it may end in a stampede which I do not want to. see. 
 A  vivid imagination sometimes enables one to see a little ahead'. Men with no imagination are useless in a government. Every one knows that if the affairs of the country are to be properly carried on, the Government must have a little imagination. The trouble in this case is that our Government cannot see an inch ahead. If it thinks it will get some political advantage out of the present issue it is. making the greatest mistake it has ever made, because the workers can read and write, and they can listen to reason, and there are men who will go from one end of Australia to the other telling the truth about the present situation. The Government admits that it cannot handle a little dispute unless it abrogates one of the most important pieces of legislation on the statute-book. 
I hope that when  Senator Guthrie  speaks he will not confine his remarks to two individuals, but will talk about something in the interests of the Commonwealth. We have heard a lot of bunkum about  Mr So-and-so  and  Mr. Such-and-such,  giving them an undue prominence in the community. Possibly some honorable senators think it is good propaganda- to frighten the people of Australia by the frequent mention of two individuals. But I am sure the people are not afraid of these two men. They are only afraid that the Government is not big enough for its job. A "big" Government would be taking a hand in this matter of national importance, affecting every man, woman, and child in the community, but nothing has been done by the present Government to help to settle the present trouble except to say that it will fight the workers to a finish. I hope that it will be settled without anything in the shape of a big . industrial upheaval', but if that infliction does. come about, it will  go down in  history as the fault of a government that made no real attempt to settle it, but, on the other hand, made an effort to aggravate it. 
It isour duty,, as representatives of the people, to tell them what we think about this legislation. Does the honorable senator imagine that we can take lying down something, affecting the conditions of the workers of Australia? I appeal to the. Government to do the right thing, and act as mediators with a view to getting this trouble over. Does the Government range itself on the side of the big ship-owners? 
I do not want the Government to make that criminal mistake. It is not in the interests of the people of Australia that the conditions prevailing in the shipping on our coast should be broken down for no reason whatever, especially when the wholetrouble is capable of being fixed up. If the Government cannot get the warring parties to settle the matter, its commonsense is infinitesimal. One feels a little keenly when one feels that principles for which men have fought for years and years may be broken down in this way because there is a little dispute in progress. I appeal to Ministers to get in and settle the dispute-. They have all the necessary powers, but all they do is to tell us that they are afraid of two individuals. Ministers have not done much in the interests of the people of Australia, and this is the worst pieceof legislation they have yet brought down. It is inflammatory legislation. 
If the. Government want this bill passed, they might just as well tell . us that they aro anxious to have a big industrial upheaval, so that all the shearers and coalminers; and others will be prevented from working, and the trouble got over quickly - possibly by the use of guns, following the example set in Queensland at one time. If the Government wants that sort of thing&gt; let it be honest and say so, and get straight into the fight. But if it wants the matter settled peaceably, and if it is a big-minded Government, it WI, get into the dispute with both hands and feet and do everything possible in the interests of the people of the country to get rid of the menace that is now hanging over them. A big industrial upheaval may be a good thing politically, for them, at election time, but the people of Australia are too wise to fall into a trap of that sort. If Ministers have that idea in their mind's they are making a big mistake and are digging a hole into which- they will fall themselves. I hope that common sense- will prevail and that the Government will try to do something to alleviate the position and not to aggravate- it* 

 Senator OGDEN (Tasmania) [3.14 a.m-J. - I ana rather loth to add anything further to the debate at this early hour of the: morning, but I must. not shirk, a public duty, however unpleasant it may be. There has- been a- lot of talk tonight om&lt; matters outside the issues to be considered. I understand that the bill' proposes to give the Government authority  to suspend certain- sections of the. Navigation Act, which gives the shipping companies of Australia a- monopoly of the coastal trade. The- original act- was -passed in all good faith1 to protect the interests of shipowners, and also the rights? and privileges of the seamen. It has built, up a monopoly of the snipping companies, who have used-  it  for their own private gain,, and it has also established a monopoly of the seamen 'themselves,, upon, whom it has conferred great benefits. No- other seamen in any part of the world can boast of such humane conditions and such, fair terms as are enjoyed by the  seamen  of Australia. 
Tha* is so.  1  may here interpose that the&gt; whole object of the pioneers of the Labour movement was to&gt; obtain improved conditions for the workers by constitutional methods. They urged from every platform the need for passing legislation which would abolish the fear, and the barbarous method, of strikes. Some of us were (optimistic enough to believe that the establishment of the Arbitration Court would bring turmoil to an end, but we now find that a trade union is repudiating the expensive industrial machinery that has been built up, and the leaders of Labour are applauding them. I do not desire the seamen to be deprived of any of the privileges that they have enjoyed in the past, so long as they " play the game." The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  and other speakers have contended that the ship-owners applied for the deregistration of the Seamen's Union, and have endeavoured to convince the country that the seamen had no part in it. Let me quote from the official; document prepared by the Registrar of the Arbitration Court the judgment of  Mr. Deputy President  Webb, delivered on the 5th June last. The Commonwealth Shipping Board and the Steamship. Owners' Federation were tired of the. attempts at job control,, which made it impossible for them to carry on. the shipping trade of the country.. The question, arose as to whether crews should be found, foa? the  Eromanga  and the  Dilga,  and  Mr. Deputy President.  Webb said: - 
I pointed- out. to  Mr. Walsh  that I looked on such holding up as a serious matter and a matter of urgency, and stated that I would later decide on a date for the- hearing, of the matter. I put the cases down for further consideration this, morning, and  Mr. Walsh  at- the outset intimated that the union did not intend to oppose the applications. I pointed out to  Mr. Walsh  that  it was my duty to endeavour to. get these ships put into commission,, and I ordered the union, through its representative, to take steps to provide crews for these ships. The transcript is1 as follows : - 

 His Honour: - I order you to supply crews for those; two vessels. 

 Mr. 
 Walsh. With all due. respect, I must decline to do so, or to- advise the men to do so. 

 His Honour. - You hear my order that your union shall supply crews for those two vessels. YOU understand I mm ordering you to da it&gt; and you understand that you are declining? 

 Mr. 
 Walsh. We must decline. 

 His Honour. - You take the full responsibility of declining to comply with my order that yo? shall supply- those two ships with  crews 

 Mr. Walsh. We take all responsibility. 
It is plain, therefore, that the Seamen's Union, by the word of its president, took full responsibility for the deregistration of the union. 
I believe that he does, and I do not think that he wishes to see a strike. I do not believe that he approves of  Mr. Walsh  and his methods, but I am surprised that as a Labour man he doe3 not denounce the tactics of that leader. I am a Labour man, but I claim the right to retain freedom of speech when I think that unionism is going astray. I should be craven and a coward if I refused to do that. 
I stand for the preservation] of trade unionism.  Mr. Walsh  took full responsibility for the deregistration, and this bill is the result of the attitude of the Seamen's Union in refusing to obey the order of the court. 
I do not hold the owners blameless, but I say that the immediate cause of the deregistration was the attitude of the seamen's recognized leader.  Mr. Deputy-President  Webb would never have deregistered the union had it not been for the invitation of  Mr. Walsh  to do so. Is there any other union that has failed to observe the conditions laid down by the court? The Australian Workers Union, of which  Senator Barnes  is  president,  and which has 120,000 members, has been loyal to the principles of arbitration, and so has the miners' organization. In fact, every craft union that comes under the operation of the act has been loyal to those principles. The seamen alone rebelled against them. 
I do not know.. I cannot understand their attitude. When I was an official of a trade union - and I have filled all the official posi tions; - the officers took their orders from the men. but to-day in the Seamen's Union the executive officers instruct the unionists what they are to do. I do not think that my colleagues in this chamber believe in strikes and industrial turmoil. 
Then, let us speak boldly in favour of them on the floor of this chamber. I am not in favour of depriving the seamen of any of the conditions that they have enjoyed, but when the welfare of the people is at stake it is necessary to protect . the interests of other unions and of the citizens generally. Some time ago   Senator Hannan  grew eloquent concerning the- hardships suffered by Australian .seamen. I have been a miner, and have worked in the bowels of the earth, unfortunately, too many years for the good of my own health ; but I remind the Senate that the seamen enjoy far better conditions than the miners, who not only risk their lives, but also sacrifice their health, and in following such employment, commit 3low suicide. A miner's wages now are about 14s. a day, while a seaman receives probably twice . that pay, and enjoys better working conditions. I regret to find that my colleagues have so much sympathy with the seamen and none for the miners and other trade unionists who will suffer if a strike occurs. 
Members .of the Labour party all deprecate the action of the seamen, but I am the only representative of my party in this chamber who dares to speak out in opposition to these aristocrats of Labour. 
They do so.' 
I said that the sympathy shown by Labour senators todayis for the seamen, but if those men go on strike to-morrow they will not .only penalize the miners, but also the car- penton, the factory workers, and the producers of this country. 
They will suffer the greatest hardship of all. Some honorable senators who have been talking about industrial matters are mere1 children in the Labour movement, and have never experienced the. serious results of an inindustrial war. An industrial war is a serious thing. While I am in this chamber, unless there is good reason for taking the opposite stand, I shall vote for any measure which will prevent (industrial trouble. Some honorable senators have suggested that this Bill strikes a blow at the White Australia policy. Who is the enemy of that policy ? 
Trouble occurred recently in Western Australia when the seamen attempted to hold up the shipping of that state. A state ' disputes committee was appointed, which made some very strong and plain statements about the seamen. I shall read a paragraph from the statement of the committee, which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the 17th June last: - 
A handful of men at Fremantle were making war on the Labour movement and were expecting Labour to prevent the processes of the law from taking their usual course. 

 Mr. Walsh himself in a contribution to the  West Australian Worker  in December last said - 
The rank and flic must have control of the Labour party. Unfortunately, Labour has  many  parliamentary representatives, who said chat" the world would be a splendid place to live in when the masters and the workers adjusted their differences. The capitalist class in Australia is almost wholly in favour of the White Australia policy. There is, therefore, no need for the workers to make so much of it. 
He went on to say - 
There is not in either the Federal or the State Labour platforms any method by which the objective of the party can be achieved. The socialization of land and industry would (at present) be an unconstitutional act. To achieve socialization the workers must be organized . . . and internationally united. That is why patriotic Labour politicians, with their ..." White Australianism " are enemies of the working class. 

 Mr. Walsh is no friend of labour; yet members of the Labour party in this chamber seek to defend him. He is an opponent of the White Australia policy and an enemy of labour.  His  article proceeds - 
If industry, .is to bo socialized the working class must be served by the army, the navy, and the air service. It must be supreme. 
There is a sinister suggestion there. If  Mr. Walsh  is in a position to carry out his threat, there is ample justification for the measure now before us. That  Mr. Walsh  is not in favour of the Arbitration Court is shown by the following statement that he made : -  
The Arbitration Court is a useful instrument for the adjustment of certain differences. It is capable of being used in the immediate interests of the worker. . . . The Seamen's Union finds it useful to force the shipowners into the court. Some disputes, .however, are not capable of adjustment by the court, and on my advice the seamen fought the maritime strike of 1919 outside the court with great success. I will have no hesitation in advising members of the Seamen's Union again to seek redress outside the court immediately the atmosphere is favorable. Now you have my idea of arbitration. 
I am sorry that some of my colleagues have wasted hours to-day in defending this leader of the Seamen's Union. The seamen have demanded something for which no other union has asked. They want the protection of the Arbitration Court and also the right to strike. They cannot, and should not, have both. - So far as I am concerned, they are. not going to stand on a pedestal aloof from other trade unions and enjoy the privileges for which some of us have fought, and which every one in this chamber has supported, while at the same time they defy the forces of law and order. That is what they are attempting to do. I believe that the delegates from the transport union acted in good faith when they endeavoured to arrange a settlement of this dispute, and stated that they could guarantee thai the conditions would be observed. When I first read that I realized that the guarantee was of little value so long as Walsh and Johannsen, and those recalcitrant members of the trade union had still to be reckoned with. At no time did the seamen officially agree to the suggestion. 
- My authority is that no official statement to that effect has been issued ; the honorable senator knows that what I have said is correct. 
That may be so. The ship-owners were prepared to consider the offer, but they said that they would not enter into negotiations while the threat to strike remained. The seamen refused to withdraw the threat. Was it any wonder that the ship-owners then declined to give the seamen all that they asked for? I do not want to delay the Senate further, nor do I find pleasure in differing from colleagues with whom I have worked for many years. 'There is, however, a debt which every man owes to the community, as well as . to his party. Whenever it comes to a question of making a decision between his country and his party, any member who is worth his place in this chamber must decide to place his country first. Whatever the consequences to me may be I, like  Mr. Walsh,  am prepared to accept them ; I shall " take my gruel " when it comes. I wish to make it clear that I value very highly my position in this Senate. I consider it a great honour to have been returned at the top of the poll for an important state of this great Commonwealth. But,while I value that position highly, I am prepared to sacrifice it and return to private life,rather than actcontrary to the dictates of my conscience. Some honorablesenators seem to adopt as their motto, "smother conscience and stick to your party." No man has a right to enter this chamberand neglect to do what he believes to behis public duty. We should not. always have our eye on the electorates, but should "cast a considerate eye " upon our country. I ask that my colleagues of the Labour movement will cast a considering eye on the welfare of their country, and not pander to a section of the community. On the contrary, they should tellthemwhen they are wrong, and endeavour to direct them into right paths.  Senator McHugh  condemns the Government for having failed to bring the parties together, but are we not all guilty if we make no attempt to solve this problem? It is our duty to trv to bring people who are acting in a wrong manner to a sense of their wrong. 
Does  Senator McHugh  endorse the action of the Seamen's Union ? 
I ask the honorable senator if the other unions will endorse the action of the Seamen's Union and follow them blindly. I remind honorable senators that this man, who had the effrontery tocondemn the Arbitration Act, deliberately invited the deregistration of his union, and who refused to accept dictation from the other trade unions, attended a meetingin Sydney the otherdayto ask other trade unionists to stand behind the seamen. 
I think that it is only right to provide for an executive power to be used in time of necessity. No Government would be so foolish as to attempt to use these powers unless in extraordinary circumstances. I fully understand the significance of my vote to-night. Plainly and bluntly the position is that the protection granted under the coastal provisions of the Navigation Act will be withdrawn from the shipping companies and the seamen if certain possibilities arise because the services of the country must be maintained. We must see that the people are fed, we must protect the means of transport, and must preserve law and order. A paragraph in the  Herald  reads: - 
The hope is thatthere will be nobig industrial upheaval, and that honest and intelligent men will not fightfor a rotten cause. 
I would not say that it is a rotten cause, but I desire to point out that no principle is involved. No attack is being made on the wages and conditions of the seamen. The ship-owners have promised that the wagesthey obtained and the conditions they enjoyed prior to the deregistration of the union will still remain in force. No attempt is being made to interfere with the conditions of the men at all. No union can hope to succeed in any 'industrial trouble unless it has the sympathy of the general public behind it. The seamen cannot expect the sympathy of the people in this trouble when no attempt has been made to interfere with theconditions of those engaged in seafaring.One does not like to urge that unionists should  or should not docertainthings but I. ask unionists to seriously consider their position;. 
I have no objection to doing so. 
I would willingly address the men if I thought I coulddo any gaod. It is the duty of  Senator McHugh.  to speak to the seamen and ask them to reconsider their decision, if he thinks such a course necessary. 

 - Senator McHugh saysthat he does not. want any industrial trouble, and if that is the casehe should make. a. personal effort to endeavour to get it settled. He should not. always depend upon the Government. 
Because it may be necessary . 
I am no orator - 
I  antan  orator,  as  Brutus, is: 
But asyou know me all, a plain blunt man.  . .I only speak right on. 
There are many things one could say on this important question. I know that members of the Labor party have said thatthe seamen are decidedly unpopular amongst, other trades unions. 
Senate OGDEN. - Yes; by desiring them to exercise a little commonsense 
The honorable senator addressed the Senate for about an hour and never suggested a. way in which a settlement could have been reached'. 
I have detained the Senate long enough, I am afraid, and find it difficult tocontinue in view of the numerous intejections.. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Newland;).  - Order!I ask honorable senators' to refrain from interjecting,. 
At this earlyhour of the morning we should he retiring. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.-  I ask  Senator McHugh  to allow  Senator Ogden  to proceed without further interruption-. 
I do not mind interjections so long as they are pertinent, but I am being subjected to a continuous wail. I intend to support the bill because it may be necessary to use the powers for which it provides. The seamen deliberately disregarded the Arbitration Court, and in doing so knew what waa awaiting them. They knew that they shouldered the serious responsibility,, and only last week I predicted' that a measure such as this would be introduced if the seamen persisted in, the attitude- which they had taken up. If the shipowners are to blame, this measure, if it becomeslaw, will affect them quite as much asit will affect the seamen, as they do not want overseas, vessels to enter into competition with those under their control. I sincerely trust that wiser counsels will prevail, and the seamen will be persuaded to return to the Arbitration Court, so that the rights, privileges, and protection that we have fought for for years', and which are now being threatened bv the action of certain trade unionists will not be taken from them. If the seamen persist in their present attitude- they will be not only injuring themselves, and inflicting a hardship upon the community, but threatening the very existence of trade' unionism itself. They are marching to their Sedan. I do not wish to assist in destroying tradeunionism, but that is what the seamen themselves will do if they persist. 
At this hour of the morning I shall begin with the rather encouraging promise to honorable senators that I shall not' keep them very long, because I believe, in view of all that has been said, that I can compress what I have to say into a very little space. It is a pity that the position has not been clarified more than it has, and that honorable senators opposite have not addressed themselves to the main question. They recognize that there is to be an upheaval in this country ; but the question is, howare we going, to control it? That is the problem we all have to assist in solving. It  certainly cannot be solved by adopting the practice followed last night and this morning of attributing all sorts of unwarranted motives to the Government and its supporters. We get no further forward by condemning either the Government or those who support it for certain alleged evil motives. Therefore, the lime has arrived when every member of this chamber should feel he has a responsibility cast upon him, and when he should ask himself, in the first place, how the difficulty which is now confronting us is to be solved. I totally disagree with honorable senators who have in this chamber levelled charges almost from Dan to Beersheba against the Government. For the information of the Senate I quote some samples of the expressions used concerning the members of the party to which I belong. " They are the advocates of the ship-owners and of black labour." " Lord Inchcape is instigating this, and honorable senators opposite are his tools." " They are working in the interests of the overseas shipping combine, and making an attack on trade unionism." These are samples, taken at random, of statements made by honorable senators opposite. It is clear that there is not a scintilla, of truth in them, because we should be courting disaster if such charges could be truthfully laid against us. I can say at once that we are not making an attack on trade unionism, are not advocating the ship-owners' case, and are not the advocates of black labour. The influence of Lord Inchcape, whatever it may be, has nothing to do with the question. We are attacking the lawbreakers and nothing else, and are endeavouring to bring them back within the pale of the law. What has been said on this side, I believe, can be expressed in the one sentence, that this agitation has been brought to a head at the instigation of one man, who has acquired extraordinary powers in this country, and whose name I shall not mention. Let us consider what has been said by some honorable senators opposite, particularly the cool insinuation made by an honorable senator from New South Wales, concerning money obtained for party purposes. I certainly absolve from responsibility a great majority of the people who come from that state, because that majority consists of honorable men and women. That an hon-  orable  senator, however nurtured in a certain atmosphere, should, on the first occasion on which he opened his mouth in this chamber, speak of the use of illgotten money, and make an unwarranted charge against this party, is, to say the least of it, most regrettable.  Senator Needham  will recall what actually happened in connexion with the industrial history of Western Australia. He referred to the action taken by the present Minister for Home and Territories  (Senator Pearce)  and myself. A body of men was being offered 6s. a day and were obliged to be the victims of the " truck " system, and it was on their behalf that  Senator Pearce, Senator Needham,  and myself took up the cudgels, with the result that they were awarded better terms than they had ever had before. 
Yes, and what we did on that occasion I would do again in order to accomplish the objective we had in view.. On another occasion, when I happened to be a Minister of the Crown another incident came to pass. I was the member for a gold-fields constituency, and the advocate for a body of miners. After an award had been obtained from the court, although I risked a great deal, I urged the men who were on strike to obey the Arbitration Court, and I induced them to do so. The result was fully in their favour. Those men afterwards returned me to the State Parliament, and subsequently helped to send me to the Senate. I do not withdraw one word of what I said at that time, nor am I sorry foi the action that I took. My attitude has not changed. I still advocate respect for the law of the land, in the. belief that the Arbitration Court is the only bulwark that the workers have ever had. I invite honorable senators to consider what happened twenty years ago. The public men of that time were confronted with the problem whether or not the seamen should be brought within the scope of the Arbitration Act. That course was stoutly resisted in some quarters, but ultimately it was recognized that it would be a good thing to allow the seamen to have the benefit of the court's protection. Could the Parliament then have foreseen that the seamen would be the means of bringing arbitration almost to its doom, do honorable senators believe that the act would have been passed so enthusiastically? It was perhaps just as well that a friendly veil was drawn across the eyes of the members of that time. The majority of those who were then in public life have since passed out of it. All that remains is their reputation for uprightness and an independence which would fling aside party and other miserable considerations in order that they might do their duty to Australia. 
We are on the verge of a very great trouble, such as we have not had before, because a considerable advance has been made along the road of progress. There are now Labour Administrations in five of the six states, but if the workers are not very careful they will find themselves further back than they ' were ten or fifteen years ago. I dissociate myself entirely from the attitude of latter-day Labour men, who look upon employers of labour with an ugly, unfriendly glare, as though they are inferior beings. The early members of the Labour party recognized that amongst the employers of labour were citizens as good as those who earned their daily bread by the toil of their hands.  The tactics that are being employed by the latest dictator will, in my opinion, bring evil to the working men of this country. I see  Senator Findley  looking at meWhen the 1890 strike occurred I was engaged as a seaman under conditions which, as he knows, were vastly  different from those that exist to-day. Public opinion was strongly in favour of that strike, and the men received sustenance from all classes of society. If subscriptions were sought tomorrow, does  Senator Findley  think that a Chief Justice would give half his salary towards the sustenance of the seamen on strike, as was then done by Chief Justice Higinbotham? Of course nob. Would public  men support  Mr. Walsh's  strike? 
I agree with that statement. If the unions were put to the test, would they contribute towards the sustenance of the associates of  Mr. Walsh? Senator Findley  surely must know that they would not. In the early days in South Australia the Trades Hall had difficulty in clearing the debt on its building.  Mr. Barr  Smith planked down thousands of pounds for that purpose. Where are the Barr Smiths to-day who will come to the relief of a trades hall? The responsibility lies at the door of the suicidal temper that has supplanted the better relationship that once existed between capital and labour. 
Of course they are. They would wreck any state of society. They have clone their best to wreck this country. Compared with twenty years ago, the relationship that exists to-day is as different as is the noonday sun from the darkest night. Can the advocates of this change claim that it has been for the betterment of Australia? Of course they cannot. In conversation honorable senators opposite cannot hide their opinions. They then condemn the excesses that take place, but in public they do not dare to speak the thoughts that are locked away in the secret recesses of their minds. They are false to the true interests of the men who have sent them here. Mi Walsh not only holds undisputed sway in his own union, but he also holds in the hollow of his hand tha welfare of the vast majority of the honest toilers in Australia. During the progress of the strike in Western Australia -  - the trouble at Fremantle - I was at my place at Three Springs. One day I saw a member of the present Government of Western Australia passing in the train. I said to him, " How are things down in Perth?" He said,  1 All right. Tom Walsh is in charge there." I said, "What! Has the Labour Government abdicated?" He replied, "Have you had any rain here lately?" I said, "You gave us plenty of mustard at one time; now you are getting a bit of it back from Walsh." I blame- Walsh and his associates less than I do the men in the latter-day Labour movement who, by their acts in the past, helped to make him what he is. I. have moi-e respect for him than for them. We know where he stands, but we cannot esteem those who will curse him in private and applaud him in public. 
The public is composed of many elements. It consists not of seamen, only, not of artisans only, not of ship-owners only; it is a many-sided  affair, comprising a number of elements Chat are so complex .that they need to be delicately 'handled. No one constituent can be allowed to tyrannize to the detriment of another. Honorable senators talk about the workers and the employers. There io no such 'classification as composing society wholly and substantially. In Western Australia we have goldminers, wheat-growers, shipping-owners, and other exclusive interests, and it is the duty of the Government to hold the scales of justice evenly, and to see that ne one element gets an advantage over another. What is the position of the seamen1? I suppose they number altogether about 8,000. The  Commonwealth Year-Booh  tells us that the number of trade unionists in Australia registered under the Commonwealth Conciliation  and Arbitration Act on the '31st December, 19®0, was 5*9,885. In August, 1923,. the number was 578,095. The seamen therefore represent about  lh  per cent, of the total number of trade unionists registered, in the Arbitration Court. There are other unionists registered under state wages boards and arbitration courts, so that actually the seamen may not represent more than a negligible fraction of the trade unionists of the Commonwealth. However, accepting for the moment that they represent  1$  per cent, of the total number, we are engaged at this early hour in the morning in trying to redress the trouble .this small section is causing. What is the 98^ per cent, doing? Has there not been tolerable satisfaction with the Arbitration Court among that 98$ per cent. ? Yet that small percentage is seeking to wreck a bulwark that, has been erected, for the industrial workers of this country, and we on our part are engaged in an endeavour to retain it. Is not -the 98^ per cent, entitled to some sympathy and protection against these wild, rebellious, truculent wreckers of arbitration 1 Surely the time has come for us in this Senate to put up some sort of plea . for the  overwhelming bulk of the unionists of Australia, and to see that the small section of wreckers of arbitration are put in their proper place, and are no longer given an opportunity to carry out thenintent. I put it to  Senator Barnes. 
Because T recognize the honorable senator's position as  president  of the Australian Workers Union, and the wonderful power for good he is capable of being in this country. The figures' I have quoted must appeal to him, because we are all here to see that trade unionism is preserved in all its vigour. The Seamen's Union belongs to a key industry, but it is not entitled by virtue of that fact to levy blackmail on society generally. There are other unions who are numerically stronger, yet weaker, than the Seamen's Union, inasmuch as they are not engaged in key industries. Very little is heard about them. Although they outnumber the Seamen's Union many times over, if they went on strike to-morrow they would cause very little inconvenience to the public; trade and commerce would be carried on just the same. I may mention such unions as the wood and furniture workers, who number 24,000; food, drink, and tobacco workers, 58,000; men engaged in the building trade, 37,000; domestic and hotel workers, 20,000; and miscellaneous workers, 127,000. These are all unionists who are interested in the Arbitration Court, but not a word has been said in this debate about their interests. All these men and their wives and families are likely to be affected by the action taken by one union because it happens to be engaged in a key industry, or, in other words, because it lies right across the road of exchange along which goods in transit must pass. If we want to see justice done we must not allow this industry, which has the power to hold up the trade and commerce of this country, to prevent goods from passing from the place of manufacture to the place of consumption. We must prevent it from bringing about havoc and distress without being called to account. We read in this morning's papers that SOO men will rise from their beds this morning only to find that they will not be able to follow their usual vocations. There is work for them, but they are not allowed to undertake it. To this number thousands may be added, because  Mr. Walsh  has said that, when it pleases him to do so, he will use the Arbitration Court or leave it alone and disrespect it. Have we reached that stage when this individual is to take charge . and run this country? We have a Government appointed for the purpose of administering the affairs of the Commonwealth, and it should not abrogate its duties to any individual. That is why we are here,firmly convinced and determined to see that the affairs of the country are run by the Government and not by anyband of men armed with no authority from the people, but solely kept in position by a few individuals who happen to be associated with them. We are told thatMr. Walsh is the mouthpiece of the seamen and never takes a ballot. When I was an activemember of a union in the days beforeanbitration existed, its rules provided for ite holding of a secret ballot before anyset of officers could dictate any sort of policy to the men. But (evidently thatprinciple does not hold to-day.  Mr. Lyons,  thePremier of Tasmania, has declaredthat it is the bounded dutyof the Commonwealth Government to maintain a shipping service to Tasmania. Ifarbitrationhas gone by the board, so far as the seamen are concerned, and they will no longer obey the awardsof an ArbitrationCourt, it is certainly the duty of the Commonwealth Government to step into the breach and seethat justice is done to all thestates.But it cannot do so unless it getsthe authority of this Parliament, and the firststep towards obtaining that authority is to secure the power to proclaim the suspension of thecoastalprovions of the Navigation Act. and invite others to tafe the places ofthe menwho, atthe dictatesof  Mr Walsh,  will not man the coastal steamships. 
Then why have they refusedto mam other vessels? 
SenatorLYNCH- That has nothing to do witihthe question. TheCommonwealth Government must see that thevery necessary services ofthe country are maintained,and no longerheld up. On one occasion farming implements, verybadly needed in Western Australia, were held upon a wharf in Melbourne for three months. The manfreshly recruited to thefarming ranks from the labour field, . needed ploughshares, but  Mr. Walsh  said thatthe steamers must remain idle untilthe obtained what hehad asked the Anbutration Court to grant him. 
Is that justice? The majorityof the people  in  Australia have long been patient. It has puzzled me that they have stood this sort of thingso long,and have not risenin their wrath and turned awav fromtheir shores that unscrupulous element which is playing with the welfareof this country. 
I would take the firm hand that the Labour Government a few years ago took in Western Australia. When  Mr. Collier  was Minister for Railways in that State, he told the men employedon the Perth to Fremantle railway duplication job that if they went on strike the work would be closed down. At that -time, however, the Labour party wasverydifferent from what it  now  is. The policyadopted by the Labour Government in Queensland is  to  settle disputesby agreeing to the demands of strikers.It does not require astatesman to bring about industrial peace 'by submitting to what is virtually blackmail. When the bridge ever theBurdekin River was swept away by a flood, and a chain pontoon was placed in position, the boatmen who were thus thrown  outof  work induced the whole o'f the workers iihere to declare that they would  go  on strike unless jobs were found  for  those men. And jobs were found for them by the State Labour Administration. A member of the Labour Government of Queensland admitted publicly that the demands of the men practically amounted to blackmail. As I previously said,  Mr. Walsh  andhis associates should be made tounderstand that society will no longer stand the mad pranks thatthey have put into practice.  If  the producers  of  butter, for instance, could command about5s. a pound for that commodity, they would be on asimilar level to that of the seamen, butthe butter producers, the wheat-growers, the fruit-growers, and the gold producers cannot fix the prices oftheir own com modities. An interesting telegram is published in the Melbourne  Aryus  this morning under the heading " 'Liars and Trickster' - Seamen's officials attacked - Stewards' journal's comments." It reads as follows :  - 
Sydney, Wednesday. - Outspoken comments on the methods adopted by 'the seamen in their relationswith the allied organizations to whom they  are  now appealingforsupport appears in the latest issue of the stewards' monthly journal under the heading, " Deregistered Seamen's Fight," " Self-confessed Liars and Trick-'  stersare  Obstacles." The article states : - " Unions have hitherto suffered seriously by their disloyalty towards each _ other. The Seamen's Union," through certain of its officials located in Sydney, has been one of the  worst  offenders in this' regard. As recently as 21st April last they, with other members of the transport group, which represented the members of other maritime unions, agreed to abide by a certain decision which had been arrived at and which dealt with the manning of the  Eromanga.  After the decision had been partly given effect to, after the other members of the transport group had carried out their part, the officials of the Seamen's Union in question stated quite openly that they did not intend to go any further with it, and boasted that they had deliberately tricked the other members of the group in agreeing to it. Such an attitude is quite in keeping with the working of sewerrat minds, but it will not help the cause of the Seamen's Union or that of the other maritime unions. While all due allowances oan be made for men who are lacking in character and capacity to represent trade unionism, they must not be trusted. If they fail in a minor issue such as -the one which has been mentioned, they will certainly fail when, bigger issues are being fought out, and the Labour movement as  a  whole will suffer consequently. If the Seamen's Union expects the loyalty and support generally from ' the other maritime unions to which 'it is entitled, it must be represented by officials capable of setting an example in "loyalty to those from whom they expect, loyalty' in return. Certain officials of the union in" Sydney ave self-confessed liars and tricksters, and if the Seamen's Union is to succeed in its fight against the shipowners it must be officered bv men who are more reliable." 
I feel that it is unnecessary for me to say more on this subject. 
Honorable senators have enough common sense to ignore the arguments advanced by some supporters of the Government, and concentrate on the purpose of the bill.  Senator Gibbs  has reminded us of the important principles that were embodied in the Navigation Act deliberately, and after lengthy discussion. The people of Australia declared that it was necessary to give the workers on sea, as well as those on shore, decent conditions of employment. This act is not a piece of panic legislation, bub was passed after the gravest possible consideration, the debates 'on if. extending over a . number of years. Do honorable senators opposite seriously say that all the conditions read to us by  Senator Gibbs  should be abrogated, as they will be, if this bill becomes law? I warn them, that if they support the bill in its present form, they will have to answer for it to the people of Australia. The Government has not submitted a sound case. If it is given the powers that it now. seeks, it will have the right to hand- the shipping trade of Australia over to vessels from other countries employing black crews. I am under no delusion over the matter. I have only my common sense to guide me in declaring that there is a great conspiracy afoot to destroy the Commonwealth Shipping Line. The private shipping companies would rather employ black than white labour, because they could engage it at a cheaper rate. The White Australia policy should be upheld at all costs. . One of the noblest actions in Australian history was the return of the black boys to their native islands. Honorable senators opposite may rest assured that if the Government takes the action threatened, its chickens will come home to roost. It is intended to pass legislation which will' deprive the seamen of all the rights which they have won during the course of a number of years. The award of the court contained certain provisions, but because of something that happened, the shipping companies, who were parties to that.' award, applied to the Arbitration Court for the deregistration of the Seamen's Union. The union having been harassed, and having spent a lot of money in connexion with various awards, adopted the attitude that it could gain nothing by spending further money in that direction. Its members therefore were unaffected by the threat to deregister their union. As a result of that deregistration the seamen are 110 longer entitled to the protection of the Arbitration Act and the Arbitration Court. Apparently, they are prepared to take the risk. When trouble arose between the seamen and the ship-owners the former declared their willingness to work every vessel if in their articles the award of the court was included. That was a perfectly sane proposition, and I cannot understand why the ship-owners did not accept it. Evidently its soundness appealed to the members of the Commonwealth Shipping Board and to some other shipping companies. It was recognized as a great achievement when Australia became possessed of her own means of sea transport, but from the beginning forces have been at work to make the scheme a failure. This legislation, if once enacted, will give to any government that happens to be in office powers of which they may be unworthy. I do not know whether honorable senators are aware that the existing Arbitration Act is sufficient to discipline any persons who cause industrial disturbances in our midst. Against very strong opposition, the Labour party fought for arbitration. The Arbitration Act provided a method of settling industrial disputes different from any previously in operation. Because such legislation reflected the commonsense of the community, the Labour party fought strenuously for it; for the same reason our opponents just as strenuously opposed it. . For our success on that occasion they have never forgiven us, and ever since the passing of the measure efforts have been made to destroy it.  Senator Pearce,  who is now proposing to amend that act, is fighting for the destruction of a child of his own. I have good reason to remember this act, as on one occasion the union of which I was an officer had a case before the Arbitration Court. We " obtained what was said to be an award t but which in reality was an outrage. Consequently there was a strike; there was no other thing to do. We placed before the court figures which I had prepared, and which were supported by the best accountants in Sydney, as well as by the Commonwealth Statistician and our own solicitor, who was an excellent mathematician. I desire to warn the Government against doing a stupid thing. If this bill is amended in the direction indicated by the Minister people in other unions, and affected by other awards, will want to know when their turn will come. The contemplated action of the Government is unwise, as under existing legislation it already has great powers. It has been said that the seamen did not care whether they were registered or deregistered. Their real position was that they were not prepared to continue to spend money in dealing with cases before the court. After making proper provision for their families, 8,000 men could not provide a great deal towards the funds of their union, but the economic position of the Seamen's Union was such that, whether registered by the court or not, they considered that they could hold what they had gained. It does not really matter whether they are registered or not. As an officer of my union, I was fined £100 on a charge which was laid under the Arbitration Act and about 500 people, both dead and alive, were held responsible for the pains and penalities provided in that act. What is the use of talking of deregistration ? An organization is nob an organization until it has been proclaimed as such. The Arbitration Act says - 
The Governor-General may on the recommendation of the  President  by proclamation declare this act to apply to any association whether registerable  under this net or not, and thereupon the association shall be deemed to be and shall become an organization for such of the purposes of this act as are directed by the proclamation or as are prescribed. 
There is no necessity to pass coercion acts other than those already on the statutebook. Much could be said concerning the decisions given under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I have been closely associated with the Arbitration Court, and on one occasion a faulty decision was undoubtedly given by tha judge in consequence of a mistake being made in the compilation of certain figures. No appeal could, of course, be made; but the full particulars were later published in  Hansard.  In this enlightened age there should be no necessity to introduce coercive measures, because they only cause dissatisfaction and discontent, and lead to further industrial trouble. The honorable member for Darling  (Mr. Blakeley)  and I had to submit to a fine of £100 or imprisonment  for advising men to disregard an award of the Court. Legislation such as the Government is introducing in this chamber and in another place should not have the support of honorable senators opposite, many of whom have been "through the mill," and know the conditions under which workmen have to operate. It is to be regretted that  Senator Pearce  and  Senator Lynch,  who, in their earlier, days so strongly advocated the cause of unionism, and who with others were largely responsible for the introduction of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and the Navigation Act, which it is now proposed to emasculate, should support this bill which will not bc of any advantage to the people. I know we are confronted with industrial trouble, and I- am hoping that common sense, will eventually prevail, and that means other than those proposed will be adopted to settle the dispute. It must be remem- bered. that,  all  the intelligence of the. country isnot in this Parliament, and that outside menare  working  day and night in  an  endeavour to arrive at a. satisfactory, solution of the difficulty. I do not think  Mr. Walsh  should be considearedin the case? 
SenatorGuthrie -Is he not theun- official leader of theLabour party ? 
Ibelieve that he isa member oftheindustrial wing ofthe Labour party. I met  Mr. Walsh  25 years ago at an industrial conference,and sofar as I knowhehas beenactivelyassociated with industrial  movements  for many years. He has not alwaysbeen  on  the side where I stand, and hehas notso far as I know, occupied any. political position. '"Jock"' Garden is another man to whom reference. is frequently made, andafter that  gentleman's  returnfrom  a  visit overseas wehearda good deal about Moscow and theMuscovites;but notwithstanding all that was said, theGovernmentduring the first three monthsof this year permitted 260  ofthose  people to land in Australia. I canonly repeat that the Government  will  bewell advised ifit withdraws this mensure;whichwould virtually destroy the Navigation Act. 
SenatorWILSON (South Australi aMinister for Markets and Migration) [5.12 a.m.]. - The debate on. the second reading of this bill has clearly shown the people of Australia the attitude of certain honorable senators in regard! to arbitration andtheir opinions concerning the industrial trouble with which we are now confronted'. I am sure a majority of hon- orable senators congratulate  Senator Ogden  on the determined! stand he has taken  in  placing the interests of his country before those  of  his party. The Government is only asking for a power which is exercised by every government in the British Empire, but. one which will not be exercised except in cases of emergency.  Senator McHugh  endeavoured' to showthat the Government were opposing the White Australia policy. 
Thehonorable senator knows as well as. any one in this chamber that' no one here believes in a black Australia. 
I sayunhestitatingly that we stand far a White Australia. and know that,inadvocatingsuch a policy we have the support of the whole; of the peopleof this greatcontinent. Itis easier tocriticize than to create. Nearlyevery honorable senatoropposite criticizedthe Government for doingwhat it believes! to beitsduty, yet not onesuggested a practical substitute. 
SenatorHannan.  -  Intervention, and a round table conference. 
Intervention when an organization, has putitselfoutside the law! Let them get back to the law, whichthemajority of honorable senators opposite support.Personalabuse does not appeal to me on a greatnational question of this description, or, indeed, in amycircumstances. A great deal has been said in regard to Mr: Walsh-. I should life to speak more definitely andclearly of menwho are ina position to guide the unionists;but are afraid to do so. I have agreater admiration for Mr: Walsh than for the man who ishaving- on the game,5* and' is. not prepared to; come into the. open in time of crisis, and leadhis men according to the dictates ofhis conscience. As  Senator Lynch  rightly said i twas theold-time unionists who took risks and. did. things. Most of the speeches on this matter haw; beenreasonable. and moderate. I can. assure the Senate that the Grovernment is exceedingly anxious to avoid trouble, and. it hopes; that the necessity will not arise to use the powers for which this bill provides. It remains f or honorablesenators opposite toplay their part. 
Question - That the bill ho now. read a second time - put. The Senate divided, 
Ayes .. ... ... 19 
Noes . .  . .  ... 9 
Majority . .10 

<graphic href="110332192507154_76_0_8_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="110332192507154_77_0_9_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="110332192507154_77_0_10_P.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read  a  second time. 
In committee: 
Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Power to suspend provisions, as to coasting trade) - 
.- If one thingstand's out prominentlyin the protracted  debate caused  bythe attempt of the Government to settle a threatened industrial dispute by destroying theNavigation, Act it is that Parliament is not the  place  in which to settle such disputes. We have  had  evidence  of men's  feelings being roused.  In  that frame  of  mind they  say  things which do not make  for  a settlement. At the outset of the debate it  was.  suggested that theGovernment shouldintervene and endeavourto bring together the contending, parties. It was stated also that clause § does not abrogate those provisions of the Navigation Act which preservetheconditions under which: the seamen work,  and  the wages that they receive.  Senator Elliott  said tha t honorable senators on this side  were  quoting from the wrong act,  and  that  a later consolidating act  badmade  certain alterations., I have reviewedthat  consolidating  act,  and  I  say;,  advisedly,that if the. committee  agrees  to clause 3, it  will  open the  door  to the employment of black  and  other labour  Binder any  conditions on  our  coast. The. manning scale, rates  of  wages, hours,  and  industrial  conditions,  will all go by the board. It does not matter what some honorable senators didin 1894, or in 1904,the fact remains that  any  honorable senator  who  votes  for  thisclause  will  help to undo everything, that he stood  for  a.  few  years  ago.  There is another feature of the clause to which I desires to direct attention.Th is  supposed  tobe a temporary measure, to be. usedonlyincaseof seriouseventuality. According to theGovernment, that eventuality has already arisen, and. this amending bill will be put into operation  at  the earliest possible moment., What is more, it will stand  so  longasthe Treasury bench is occupied! by men who have inclinations similar to those of the honorable gentlemen who are now, in. possession of it. Within a few months,, however, Labour men. will sit where anti-Labourites and anti- Australians nowsit and  as  soma  as  we,  dothis  measurewill  be  repealed.Frequent. references have been made tojob control,  but wehave  heard nothing:  about the  exercise of theprincipleof job control  by  the ship-owners.  It:  is most  effective  when the ship-ownerssumarily increasefreightsand fares without appealingto anytribunal, or asking thepermission  ofany  citizen.. But if. the men engaged  on  their vessels endeavour  to  preserve the conditionsthat have been won for. them after many hardfoughtbattles, the charge islevelled against them that they are improperly resorting  to  job control. The most effective job controllers I know of in Australia are the ship-owners.Honorable senators  on  this side will vote against the clause, because it is. impossibleto amend it. 
Since  we  first assembled- yesterday,  we  have made substantial progress, and that progress would have been more rapid but for the tactics of certain honorable senatorssupporting theGovernment. The provision immediately  before  usisofsuch great moment  that.  I think  the.  Government should report  progress  and ask leaveto sit again. In the meantime efforts whichare being made to bring about a peaceful settlement of the impending trouble  may be  successful.  We  cannot when  we are  tired devote  to  this' matter of supreme importance the close attention' it demands..  It  is well nigh impossible for some honorable senators  to keep  awake.  How,  therefore, can they  be  fully cognisant of what is taking placer? A member of a state legislature oncesaid, " Thank God,  wehave  an upper house." He; knew  that the  Legislative Council wouldnot, work  at the express  speed displayed  by  the Legislative  Assembly  in passing; legislation ,  but  would take its time,over  the  business it  was  called upon  to  transact.  We are  the upper house in  the  Federal Parliament  and we  should takeour time. 
I enter an emphatic protest against the adoption of this clause. The Governor-General is the representative of the Crown in this country, hut when he speaks it is with the voice of the Ministry. The Navigation Act was passed by this Parliament, after nine years of careful deliberation, to preserve the rights of the men who " go down to the sea in ships." When a measure relates only to Australian conditions, the GovernorGeneral has the right to assent to it, but if international considerations are involved, the assent of the King has to be obtained, and ohe of the few measures passed by this Parliament to which the Governor-General could not give his assent was the Navigation Act. 
(Senator Newland).  - This clause does not refer to the assent of the Governor-General, but to a proclamation to be issued by him. 
The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
This clause, although short, proposes to set aside a vital part of the Navigation Act. It reads- 
Am I not permitted to read the clause? 
As I desire to assist in passing legislation which will benefit the country,' I shall not dispute your ruling. The clause is so short that, unless honorable senators take the trouble to refer to the principal act, they may not realize its far-reaching consequences. It proposes to give the Governor-General power, by proclamation, to suspend not only the operation of the whole  of Part VI. of the 1912 act. butthe operation of the amending sections in the 1920 act. These sections are really the vital. part of our navigation legislation. Oan any portion of the act be more important than Part VI. of the original act, which deals with the coasting trade of the Commonwealth ? It applies to all ships, whether British or foreign. To give honorable senators some indication of the nature of the sections in the principal act which will be affected, I shall read section 285 : - 
This part of this act shall come into operation on a date to be fixed by proclamation, but shall not come into' operation on the date fixed for the. commencement of this act unless the proclamation fixing that date expressly declares that this part is to come into operation on that date. 
That section was inserted with the object of delaying as long as possible the application of those provisions which were wrung from the opponents of the measure. Clause 3 will set it aside. Section 287 reads - 
A ship shall not engage in the coasting trade which is receiving or which under any arrangement is to receive, or which in the immediately preceding twelve months has 'been receiving diTectly or indirectly any subsidy or bonus from any government other than that of a part of the British dominions. 
The importance of this section will be realized when I remind honorable senators that Parliament provided a penalty of £500 for a breach. I wonderthat the Government has not asked for the suspension of the whole of the ac.t, so that it might have an absolutely free hand Section 288 (1) of the principal act provides that no ship shall engage in the coasting trade unless licensed to do so. Here, again, the penalty is £500. Yet the Government, regardless of its importance, seeks the power to suspend the operations of that section.  Senator Wilson,  in supporting this clause, in effect admits that he is in favour of the employment of black labour in the coasting trade of Australia. Sub-section 3 of section 288 provides - 
Every licence shall be issued subject to compliance" on the part of the ship, her master,  owner, and agent, during such time as she is engaged in the coasting trade, with the following conditions :  - 
That the seamen employed on the ship shall be paid wnges in accordance with this part of this act; and 
That, in the case of a foreign ship, she shall be provided with the same number of officers and seamen, and with the same accommodation for. them, as would be required if she were a British ship registered in Australia or engaged in the coasting trade ; 
That in every ship registered in Australia or engaged in the coasting trade where a library is provided for the use of passengers, every seaman and apprentice shall - where no library for their special use is provided - be entitled to obtain books therefrom under the same conditions as may regulate the issue of such books to the passengers. 
Penalty (on owner) : Ten pounds. 
It is further provided in section 289 that - 
Every seaman employed on a ship engaged in any part of the coasting trade shall, subject to any lawful deductions, be entitled to and shall be paid, for the period during which the ship is so engaged, wages at the current rates ruling in Australia for seamen employed in that part of the coasting trade, and may sue for and recover those wages. 
The Government asks us to adopt clause 3, its real intention being to rob the seamen of the right to claim any payment at all. 
SenatorGRANT. - I find that the section that I have read has not been disturbedby the amending act. An amendment was made of sections 286 and 422 of the principal act, but not of the whole act. So far as. I can see, all the statements that I have made are in accordance with fact, and the adoption of clause 3 will mean that those sections will, at the wish of the Ministry, be suspended indefinitely. Clause 291 reads - (1.) No provision in any agreement, whether made in or out of Australia, shall be taken to limit or prejudice the rights of any seaman under this part of this act. 
Where, by reason of a seaman being entitled to a higher rate of wages while the ship on whichhe serves is engaged in the coasting trade- 
any deduction is made from his wages earned out of Australia; or  (b)heis paid a lesser rate of wages out- side Australia than is usual in voyagesof a similar nature, it shall 'be deemed that the seaman is not paid wages in accordance with this part of this act while the ship is so engaged in the coasting trade. 
That original provision should be left undisturbed. Under this clause all the sectionsof the principal act which I have read may be suspended. Other sections may also be affected, but these, owing  to  the limited time at my disposal, I cannot quote. To propose in the present circumstances to set aside what is unquestionably the most vital part of the principal act so as to enable the Government to employ any labour at any cost isbeyond mycomprehension. No restrictions will be placed upon the 'employment of colored labour on vessels engaged on the Australian coast. That is the policy which the Minister  (Senator Wilson)is  advocating in asking us to agree to the suspension of this vital portion ofthe act. The Government should notthrow down thegauntletand place the seamen entirely out of court. 
Motion (by  Senator Pearce)  proposed - 
That the committee do now divide. 
I had not the opportunity to protest as fully as I should have liked to do against clause 3, but I declare war to the knifeon this clause.Honorable senators opposite maythink that this is a matter of little or no moment, butI remind them that to every man engaged in political life there comes a day of reckoning. It will bo possible for the Governor-General to suspend all those major provisions in the act that apply to the conditions of the seamen, and he may disregard the whole of the conditions relating to the manning of vessels. That is a matter which vitally affects every one who travels by sea. A perusal of schedule  2  of the act will give an idea of the powers that the Government may exercise. Why did the Parliament devote so much time and trouble to that schedule? It wasin the interests of the travelling public. Ships that go to sea should be seaworthy and properly manned. 
SenatorFINDLEY.  -  I hope thatno Government would be guilty of allowing a ship that was not absolutely seaworthy to go to sea. Woknowthat some Few years ago the then secretary of theSeamen's Union,  Mr. Sangster,  who afterwards became the honorable member for Port Melbourne, made the serious allegation that certain ships were absolutely un seaworthy. . He referred to some of them as "coffin ships." He was not taken seriously at first, but because of his persistence, a royal commission was appointed and the truth of his statements was proved up to the hilt. I hopethat the provisions of the act will not be abrogated or suspended, and that the schedule in its relation to manning will be strictly and rigidly observed. That schedule provides for the employment of qualified men. Where, outside the ranks of the Seamen's Union, can such men be secured ? This is a very drastic provision, and it has been inserted forno ther purpose than to try to weaken the seamen's organization. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works and Railways,  upon notice - 
Is it the intention of the Government to construct a floating dock at Port Adelaide? 
If so, when? 
The answers are as follow: - 
No proposal for the construction of a floating dock at Port Adelaide has been submitted for -the consideration of the Government. 
See answer to No. 1. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
What number of temporary clerks now employed in the Customs Department, Sydney, are to bo retrenched on the 31st July, 1925? 
What is the reason for such retrenchment ? 
How many marriedmen have received notice that their services will no longer be required after that date? 
How many are returned soldiers? 
Will the Minister, in. view of the great difficulty of sectoring employment in 'other avenues at the present time; consider the question of retaining the services- of these employees? 
The information is being obtained. 
asked the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
Whether he will lay on the table of the Senate a report on the exploratory investigations into the forestry resources of Papua and the Mandated Territory recently concluded? 
If so, when? 
-The answer to the honorable senator's questions is - 
The report is at present in the hands of the author,  Mr. C.  E. Lane-Poole. Arrangements will be made to lay it upon the table of the Senate at the earliest opportunity. 
asked the Minister representing, the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Has the Minister taken any steps to remove the inconvenience caused to the public through the withdrawal of stamp licences by authorizing, the reinstatement of these licences Where inconvenience has been caused by such withdrawal? 
If not, will he have full inquiries made with' a view to this being done? 
The PostmasterGeneral supplies the following reply: - 
Arrangements are being made for stamp licences to be continued rn those instances where they are justified' in the public interest. 
Honorable senators are again £ace to face with a motion for the suspension of the Standing and Sessional Orders to enable a bill to be rushed through. Yesterday afternoon I complained that these suspensions were becoming chronic. I then said that honorable senators- on this side would not support such action. I repeat that statement in regard to this measure which was introduced in another place. It was debated there, and then sent to this cham ber. I notice that in the concluding stages of the discussion in another place certain action was taken to expedite the passage of the bill so that the Senate might consider it to-night. We should be more particular than we have been in. the past when dealing with these continuous requests for consideration without' delay of messages from another place. If four or five days were required for the proper discussion of this legislation elsewhere, at least that length of time should be allowed to honorable senators. I suggestthat the Leader of the Senate (Senate Pearce) should treat this message in the ordinary way; that he should not persist with the motion that he has moved, but that he should merely ask the Senate to now pass the first reading of the bill, and fix the second reading for another day. I know that I shall probably be met with the statement that the Minister made yesterday, that we shall soon be welcoming to Australia our cousins from overseas, the naval representatives of the great American republic. As I said on a previous occasion, the personnel of that fleet, and the sentiment that it brings, are both welcome to Australia. But I think that legislation of this nature should not be rushed through merely in order that the national Parliament may adjourn to enable a welcome to be given to our relatives from overseas. 
Does the honorable senator think that we should do the family washing while our relatives are here ? 
I also object to the proposal made by the Leader of the Senate. It is useless attempting to ignore the  fact that  all honorable senators are well acquainted with the provisions of the bill which it is proposed to put through at a non-stop rate. I do not suppose that at this stage I am entitled to discuss its provisions, but, having paid fairly close attention to its passage through another place, I con sider that the proposal to suspend the Standing Orders, with a view to rushing it through without giving breathing time between its various stages, is an outrage that ought not to be permitted. The first part of the bill is absolutely dishonest. The second part creates a new set of offences. 
At this stage, the honorable senator is not entitled to discuss the provisions of the bill. 
.- The Government is gradually bringing the highest body in Australia down to the level of a small county council. We are sent here to consider every measure, item by item, and should be allowed at least one night to go through a bill. 
The chances are we shall have two or three nights. It all depends upon the wisdom displayed by Ministers. 
I have seen no occasion where the Labour party could not stay in with any other party. . 
Yes, because about 7 o'clock we had all honorable senators on the Government side crying to us to get off the job, and applying the "gag." During the night they were sleeping under rugs, but the representatives of labour were in the chamber all the time, as we shall always be during a fight. 

 Honorable senators interjecting, 

Now I hear something from Queensland. To  Senator Reid  I say, " Where were you in 189 1? " 
I have repeatedly pointed out that it is not in order to address an honorable senator personally. Honorable senators can make their points quite as emphatically by addressing the Chair. To proceed in any other way is calculated to lead to disorder. 
We werenot told. 
Motion (by  Senator Wilson)  proposed - 
That the Senate do now divide. 
 I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
I regret that an hour that might  very  well have been given to the discussion  of  this bill has been devoted to other things. For that, honorable senators on this side are not responsible. This bill  deals with the  right of the country to decide who shall come into it, and  of  those  who come in  who shall remain here. That  is the important  principle underlying the whole  of  its provisions. It is well  known that  at the inception of . federation, , the people  of  Australia,  when they became  vocal through their Federal  Parliament,  laid down, as a fundamental principle of their legislation, their right to deter  mine  whoshould enter, and who  should  remain in, their country.  It is, therefore,  somewhat remarkable that. honorable senators opposite should profess dismay  at this  proposed legislation, as if it were  a  radical departure from some wellrecognized principle. Not only has  the principle  been always recognized  in this country,  but every civilized country  has  adopted it for its own protection.  Since that  principle was first established by  this  Parliament, there have been amendments  of  our immigration restriction laws, their  effect  being to tighten up the existing legislation, and extend its scope.  In the  early days of federation there was not the same power to deport undesirable citizens from this country that the legislation of to-day contains, but the very first law passed by this Parliament asserted the right of the community to deport from the country persons who, after their entry, proved to be undesirable citizens. It is true that one of the determining factors in the passing of such legislation was the commission of crime. The commission of crime, or of acts which amounted to crime, was an evidence  accepted  by the country that the guilty persons had proved themselves to be undesirable, and therefore unworthy of citizenship in this country. Not only  was  legislation enacted to enable such persons to be deported, but the powers conferred by that legislation were exercised, and persons guilty of criminal acts were deported from the country. That principle has never been successfully challenged. It still remains on our statute-book. One has only to examine the principle itself to see how necessary it is to the safeguarding of our national life. If we are to open our doors to the criminals of other countries, it is obvious that those countries will speedily make Australia a dumping ground for their undesirables. 
The object of the measure is to deal  with  those who, having come here, have exhibited criminal instincts, and who are endeavouring to destroy the established institutions of  this  country. The bill also provides certain safeguards found to be necessary in regard to our existing legislation. It gives additional power for controlling and regulating alien immigration into Australia. We have to remember that with the great Republic of America almost entirely closing its doors to certain sections of European aliens, that stream of immigration is being diverted elsewhere. During the recess the Government found strong evidence that it was being diverted to Australia. We pride ourselves on being the most British of all British communities. We are even more British  than  the British Isles themselves. Fully 98 per cent of our population is of British stock, and there is on the face of the earth no better stock with which to found a nation. 
I suggest that  Senator Barnes  should not "exhaust himself at this juncture, since his leader will probably require his services later on. We are not opposed to the immigration to this country of suitable elements of the white race, but we are desirous of maintaining, so far as we can,' the preponderance of the British element. We realize that we must deal with this question fairly and justly, and with due recognition of the rights of other nations. We should be foolish to. take extreme action that would offend those nations, interfere with their national pride, or constitute an affront to them; but they themselves would be the first to acknowledge our right to make a selection of the kind of people we should admit into this country. 
We have, therefore, in this measure asked Parliament to grant the Government greater power than it has to-day to regulate the stream of alien immigration entering the Commonwealth. During the recess, when it became apparent that large numbers of southern Europeans, particularly Greeks, Jugo Slavs, and Albanians were arriving with insufficient funds, and without friends or relatives to look after them on arrival, the Government took prompt steps to deal with the situation. The Greek, Jugo Slav, and Albanian authorities were advised of the- conditions prevailing in Australia, and of the restricted opportunities for the employment of those unable to speak the English language of who had.no friends to assist them on arrival. The British consuls' in those countries were also asked to issue a warning of these restricted opportunities, and to arrange, as far as possible, for the number of such immigrants to be limited to not more than 100 per month. The shipping companies were likewise warned of their responsibility in regard to the return of immigrants who subsequent to their arrival became a charge upon the public. The effect of these precautions is shown in the figures which I am now about to quote. For the three months ended the 31st December, 1924, 910 Greeks entered Australia; whereas for the three months ending the 31st May this- year, after our restrictions were put into force, the arrivals numbered only 118. For the last three months of 1924, 950 Jugo Slavs arrived, and for the three months ending 31st May, 1925, only 73. For the last three months of 1924, 176 Albanians arrived here, and for the three months ending 31st May, 1925, there were no arrivals. The net migration, that is, the excess of arrivals over departures of other than those of the white British race, was, for the quarter ended the 31st December, 1924, 4,514; whereas for the quarter ended the -31st May, 1925, it was only 2,967, showing a decrease of 39 per cent, for the latter period as compared with the last three months of 1924. It will be seen from these figures that, notwithstanding tha energetic propaganda indulged in by certain persons throughout the country to make it appear that the Government was not dealing with this Question,the prompt measures which the Government did take had the effect of regulating this class of migration to Australia. 
There has been a good deal of discussion elsewhere regarding Italian migrants. It must be admitted that in numbers they have exceeded other classes of alien migrants, but there has been a general unanimity of testimony that the Italian settlers in Australia are of a good type, with standards of living almost, if not quite, equal to those of the average Australian. The Government was not in a position, when dealing recently with the problem of alien immigration generally, to place a check through the' passport vise system, on the number of Italian migrants, because Australia . had joined with Great Britain a few years ago in an arrangement with the Italian Government, as well as the governments of France, Norway, Sweden, and Denmark, for the mutual abolition of vises. It was stipulated at the time, however, that the Italian Government should refrain from granting passports to Italians desiring to travel to Australia unless they could show that they had been nominated by some one in Australia who was prepared to look after them on arrival, or unlessthey had adequate funds for their maintenance. The Italian Government has a highly organized Emigration Department, which makes itself responsible for providing that the Italians who migrate to Australia are in sound health and of good character. The Italian consular authorities in Australia also co-operate to see that such migrants are nob allowed to become a charge upon the community.  Mr. Ferry,  an official of the Queensland Public Service, who was appointed by the Queensland Government to report on the question of immigration, stated in a recent report that the majority of the Italians coming to Australia were from southern Italy; but the records show that, in effect. 67 per cent, of the total number of Italians who left Italy for Australia last year were from the northern provinces, and should not be confused with . the city-dwelling type such as the Neapolitans.  Mr. Theodore,  whose remarks were endorsed by  Mr. Gillies,  stated that there was plenty of room for the Italians who came to Queensland, the only objection being that they had a tendency to settle in the one district. 
The Commonwealth Government has been severely blamed by the Labour party for allowing the influx of Italians and other aliens into north Queensland, and for the position disclosed in  Mr. Ferry's  report that in some districts the canecutting gangs are nearly 100 per cent, foreigners. It is, however, within the power of the State Government of Queeusland to prevent a preponderance, of aliens from engaging in sugar cane farming, or in cane-cutting work. I wish to quote a letter which appeared in the Brisbane  Daily Mail  of the 30th June, 1.925. From  Mr. E.  B. Swayne. M.L.A. - 
For sheer hypocrisy it would . he difficult to beat the behaviour of the present Government (Queensland State Government) as regards the influx of newly-arrived southern Europeans into our sugar districts. 
Pretending to view with deep concern the displacement of the British-Australian workers, who have hitherto been engaged in the industry, by the new arrivals, it all the while has been ' striving to score some selfish party political advantage out of this national difficulty at the expense of the Federal CountryNational party Government because it is not immediately dealing with the problem, and is falsely stating it is entirely beyond the State Government to do so. But, by the inference, it is trying to create the impression what wonderful things it would do if given the power. 
As to whether it does not. already possess the requisite authority or not, I will leave yon to sav after perusal of the provisions contained in the Sugar Cultivation Act, passed by the Denham Government in 1913 for the security of the sugar industry. In section 2. this act gives power to the Minister' for Agriculture to authorize a dictation test in any Inmriinge he mny select to be applied to those engaged in the industry. Then, section 3 deals with cultivators as follows: - 
Certain persons prohibited from growing sugar cane: - 
After the passing of this Act, it shall be unlawful for any person who has not first obtained in the prescribed manner a certificate of having passed the dictation test to engage in or carry on the cultivation of sugar cane upon any land within Queensland, of which such person, whether individually or in partnership, or association with others, is the occupier. Any such person who acts in contravention of this section shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding One hundred pounds, and the crop of sugar cane so being cultivated shall be liable to be forfeited to  His  Majesty by order of the court before which the offence is proved. 
Section 4 goes on to say, in ' the first two paragraphs, and including lines 12 and 13: 
After the passing of this Act - 
Any employer who, either directly or indirectly, or under any pretence or device, attempts to employ, or employs or authorizes or permits to be employed, in or in connexion with the industry of the cultivation of sugar cane and the manufacture therefrom of sugar, any person who has not first obtained a certificate of having passed the dictation test; 
Any person who has une first, obtained a certificate of having passed the dictation test who is employed in or in connexion with such industry; shall be guilty of an offence, and shall be liable to the penalties following. 
And then the Act goes on to provide penalties of from £2 to £10 per day for employers or employees breaking the Act. It wili be' noted that State Government under this Act may practically debar any one it pleases from employing or becoming employed in this industry, and that without any reference whatsoever to the Commonwealth Government. . . . 
Yes, this act was passed, not by a Labour administration, but by the Denham Government. It has not been repealed by the Labour Government. If it is to the detriment of Queensland that aliens should be employed in the sugar industry," there is upon the statute-book of that state an act which, if the Labour Government had seen fit to put it into force, would have prevented their employment. 
I proceed now to deal with the question of the immigration of Maltese. I am deliberately anticipating the use in this chamber of the misrepresentations that have been indulged in outside this Parliament with the object of damaging the Commonwealth Government in the eyes of the people. It has been clearly explained on many occasions that there is an understanding with the Government of Malta, under which that Government undertakes to limit the issue of passports, so that, as far as practicable, not more than twenty Maltese will seek" to land in any one state of the Commonwealth during any month. It has been misrepresented that the Government entered into a secret arrangement to import upwards of 1,200 Maltese a year. That is absolutely incorrect. The Government gives no assistance or encouragement whatever to Maltese to come to Australia. 
Not for the bringing in of even one Maltese. I have already stated that the Malta Government undertook to see that not more than twenty Maltese would seek to land in any one state during any month. During the last twelve months they have not reached that quota. That was a purely administrative act, with a view to limiting the number of Maltese immigrants so that they might be readily absorbed. The steps that were taken by the Government have been effective in putting a stop to the influx of indigent aliens. 
As I have previously pointed out, the immigration of certain classes of southern Europeans has been for the time being considerably checked. The Government, however, when considering the whole matter, strongly felt that it was necessary to have further power than is given in the act. In this bill, therefore, we have a clause which is practically a copy of a section of the Canadian act. Under it, the Governor-General may, by proclamation,  declare  that the immigration of certain classes is, for economic or other reasons, undesirable, and a limit may be placed upon the numbers of those classes that may come in. That will give the Government greater statutory power than it possesses to-day: If honorable senators opposite were sincere in the protestations that they made up and down the country during the recess, they should welcome the bill and assist the 
Government to put it on the statutebook. 
Yet we shall find honorable senators "stone-walling" the first as well as the second portion of the bill. We shall see whether honorable senators opposite will facilitate the passage of the motion for the second reading of the bill, in order that, in committee, they may be afforded the opportunity to vote for those clauses which they favour and against those to which they are opposed. 
That is not correct. I now come to the other provisions in the bill. I point out that under the act, which has been on the statute-book for some years, power is given by section 8 a to summon before a board any person who, within three years of his arrival in Australia, advocates the overthrow of the Government by force or violence, and make him show cause why he should not be deported. That provision has received the endorsement of the people of this country. Why? Because they recognize that, just as Australia must be protected against bubonic plague, small-pox, and other deadly diseases of an infectious character, that may be introduced from outside, so the body politic must be protected from those infectious social diseases by which the minds of the people of this country can be poisoned - the propagation of the deadly diseases of communism and bolshevism. 
There is in the bill nothing to prevent any socialist from coming to Australia, and the honorable senator ought to know that. There are in the bil] provisions by which action may be taken against persons who, after their arrival in Australia, abuse their citizenship rights by devoting their activities to the stirring up of industrial strife and the paralyzing of the industries of Australia. 
We should be foolish if we shut our eves to the fact that the communist knows no country, and owes allegiance to no nation. He declaims against national pride and against all nationality. He is an internationalist, and he boasts of his internationalism. He stands for one principle, which he preaches in season and out of season, and that is the principle of destruction. He aims ' at the destruction of civilized society as we know it to-day. He has, unfortunately, managed to acquire political power in one of the great. European countries, Russia, and we are well aware that the whole political, power of that country is to-day devoted to the spreading of those communistic doctrines of destruction and anarchy through every civilized country of the earth. And every civilized country, knowing of that fact, would be worse than foolish if it did not take measures for its protection against such insidious and destructive doctrines. I bring witnesses to prove that this is recognized. The witnesses are honorable senators opposite. Why have they banned the communist from membership of their party? Why did the Western Australian branch of the Australian Labour party, at its annual conference held last week, by 70 votes to 40, decide to expel from its ranks  Mr.  Ryce,  a member of the executive of the Seamen's Union, and a  communist?  It was because of its recognition of the fact that the policy of the communist is destruction. Its action was dictated by the instinct of selfpreservation. And if it is right for a political organization in Australia to expel a man from its ranks because it knows that he advocates and acts upon the principle of the destruction of that political party, is it wrong for the Commonwealth Government to eXpel from Australia a man who proclaims and acts upon the same principles in relation to the national life of the Commonwealth? 
We have the freest democracy in the world. Every man, every woman, who comes to Australia, after a short period of residence, obtains the same political power that is possessed . by men and women who have been born in this  country.  In his economic life, from the time that he goes to the schoolhouse, until he goes to his grave, every individual in this country is surrounded by the most beneficent industrial, social and economic laws ever devised. He is given free education. He works under a bene.ficent system of factory legislation, wages boards and arbitration courts. 
He has the benefits of workmen's compensation acts. All these advantages have been provided by this democracy in order that he shall have a fair opportunity to obtain his living, and be protected from the rapacity of those who would interfere with his economic wellbeing. Trade unionism is encouraged bv our industrial laws to such an extent that during the time that the Arbitration Act has been on the statute-book the membership of the trade unions of Australia has more than quadrupled. That has been due wholly and solely to the encouragement given by the act to the formation and membership of unions. That being so - these being the conditions which this democracy provides for the working classes of this country, and for all who come here - we say that any man who comes here and threatens or endeavours to destroy those advantages is an enemy to this country, and we should treat him as such. And so we say to him, " You may hold these views, you may propagate these poisonous doctrines, if you will, but you shall not do so in Australia. Go back to your own country. The will of this country is that it shall be a democracy, based on economic freedom. All our laws are designed to that end, and yon shall not, by your anti-social revolutionary practices, and destructive methods, endeavour to shatter and destroy the edifice that this democracy has raised." 
This is merely self -protection. It is not an attack upon trade unionism. It is a protection of trade unionism. No trade union that will conform' to and obey the laws- of this country need fear the operation of a single clause of the bill, or a section of the act. On the contrary,, every trade union that believes in democracy, and in the code of industrial laws that we have built up, should welcome this measure as a protection against that "white-anting," by revolutionists and communists, which to-day is. going on in our midst. Every intelligent trade unionist who watches the course of events is aware that the "white-anting" process is going on. If proof of my words be required I refer honorable senators to the statements of responsible trade union leaders - to the steps the unions are taking in every state of the Commonwealth to rid themselves of those who are spreading these poisonous doctrines and to protect themselves against the " white - anting'*' that is going on in their movement. 
In these circumstances the Government says to Parliament: "Since this Parliament and the Parliaments of the states have reared this edifice, which has the endorsement of the overwhelming majority of the people of this country, we ask you for this additional power. Just as you have already given us power under the quarantine law to close the door against any man or woman likely to bring disease into the Commonwealth, or, under the Immigration Restriction Act. against those who would come into this country and. because of their indigence, or any other reason, lower the economic standard of the people, so we ask you to arm us with this further power, in order that Australia shall not be defenceless against this menace." "We ask for this power so that we shall be able to stop at our door the man who, to our knowledge, proposes to enter Australia for this destructive purpose. And if he evades us at the door - if he comes into the community and commences to preach his nefarious doctrines and practice his nefarious principles, the Government seeks to be armed with the power to place the hand of the law on him and send him back to the country from which he came. 
These are the principles contained in the bill. In the interest of Australia and that economic structure we have reared in this country, and of which we are so proud, as well as in the interest of our democracy, I appeal to honorable senators to support the bill and place it on the statute-book. I give them an assurance that neither this nor any government would ever abuse the power the measure places in its hands. No government would dare to do so. Australia is a democracy. Both Houses of the Commonwealth Parliament are "broad based upon the people's will." There is no class franchise. Every adult is free and equal in the vote- given for the election of both Houses of this Parliament. It is unthinkable therefore that any government responsible to an electorate such as that could use these powers of protection as a weapon of tyranny or oppression or as a means of reprisal for political purpose. Any government that did $o would court destruction. There is no country in the world where public opinion is so responsive as it is in Australia. Those of us who know anything of the politics of our country know that if governments returned with large majorities have proved unfaithful to the trust reposed in them they have been thrown out of office - even before the electors have been called upon to pass judgment - owing to the force of public opinion asserting itself in parliament. Australia is not a country such as some people speak of where the " proletariat " as they call him is ignorant. Australia is an educated country. Here even the labourer who carries bricks on a building can read and write and reason. He is not a poor fool who toils in chains' ignorant of his surroundings. He reads, he thinks, he knows. You cannot fool an educated democracy. You cannot play tricks with it. The safeguard against any possibility of tyranny in Australia is not to be found in any written law or in anything that may be provided to tie the hands of a government. It is to be found rather in public- opinion, free, unfettered, and educated. Australia is a reasoning democracy. I have heard some of these imported gentlemen telling the workers of Australia that they have nothing to lose but their chains, and that they should be class conscious. Years ago I was a trade unionist. I was a trade union leader. I helped to form trade unions, and I was one of the pioneers of the movement in Western Australia when it was unprofitable and unpayable to be a trade union leader. At that time, to occupy such a position was to bring upon oneself suffering, contempt, and the boycott. 
There were not. I was a leader of the movement then, and I was class conscious to this extent, that, although I worked for my living ' on a daily wage, I did not think myself inferior to any other man in the state. That was my class consciousness. Apparently the class consciousness taught by these imported gentlemen is that it is undignified to work for a wage; that it is ignoble to labour. Any man who preaches a doctrine like that degrades labour and is not worthy of bearing the name of labour. There is nothing ignoble  or unworthy in working for a wage. On the contrary, there is no better citizen in this country than the honest man who works for a daily wage and can "look the whole world in the face." Why should he talk of class consciousness as if there was a badge of servitude upon him, or as if he were in any way inferior to others? And yet these are the doctrines being taught to-day by these imported gentlemen, brought from countries where the standard is entirely different from what it is in Australia. They come from countries where there are classes which, because they rule, own the working class. In Australia no man owns the working class. Every man owns himself. He stands upright in his own dignity, and is free and unfettered. Therefore, to talk of class consciousness and of the " chains of the workers " in these circumstances is rubbish. 
If my voice could reach beyond these walls to the trade unionists of Australia, I would say that their danger comes not from the capitalist class of Australia. If ever a clash comes between the capitalist class and the workers of Australia, the tribunals of the country will determine the issue, not on the money power of the capitalist or on the organized power of the workers, but on the bare justice of the demands made by either side. In our industrial affairs we have got rid of the doctrine of the club ; we have brought all issues into the arena of law and justice. Therefore, when the trade unionist looks round for his enemy, it is not the capitalist he sees. If he looks in the right way he will see that if Australia is to progress, . and if its wealth is to be made available, capital and labour must both play their part, and that if they co-operate they will do it more successfully than if they fight. The enemy of the trade unionist of Australia is the man who talks to him of class consciousness, and tells him that he has nothing to lose but his chains. The worker of Australia has more to lose than the workers of any other country have ever had or have to-day. And so I invite honorable senators who call themselves the representatives of labour to take this opportunity of telling these imported gentlemen that they will no longer shelter them or throw the protection of their political party around them to permit them to continue " white-anting " the trade unions of Australia, and to plot schemes of destruction against the Government or the legislative and economic edifice which the democracy of the Commonwealth has reared up, and of which it is so proud. 
I have listened very carefully to the speech of the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  in moving the second reading of the bill, which. I have just had, for the first time, an opportunity of perusing. As one of the humble representatives of labour in this chamber and, I hope, outside, it is my intention to address myself to the main provisions pf the measure, and reply to a few of the statements made 'by the Minister. Let me reply to one of them at once. He waxed somewhat wrathful about what he called imported gentlemen. One would think that the bill referred to no one but these gentlemen, but I can see in it no reference to them." I have seen in if something referring to Britishers who may come to Australia and whom, if the bill becomes an act, the GovernorGeneral will be given power to deport. It is true that the bill can easily be divided into two sections, and it might have been better if it had been introduced in that way. The first part deals with the manner and conditions in which people may enter the Commonwealth. It deals with people who desire to leave other parts of the world and come to Australia, but it is simply a bit of window dressing on the part of the Government, because Minis,ters are not so much concerned about people entering Australia as they are about those they want to send away from Australia. That being so, I shall not occupy much time in commenting on that portion of the bill which refers to people entering Australia. I shall confine my few remarks to that important section of the measure' which refers to the power of deportation. This is the most remarkable piece of legislation ever introduced in this Parliament. The Minister laid particular emphasis on the subject of class consciousness, but I regard the bill as a shining example of class legislation. It is intended that it shall operate against one section . of the community alone - the trade unionists. I make that statement  deliberately. If we try to discover the purpose, of the measure, we find that it provides for the deportation of persons not born in Australia if they are convicted of political offences. Although the Minister told us that there was already a law to deal with criminals, he admitted that the immigration clauses were designed to prevent criminals from entering Australia. He went on to say that there were criminals already here, and the Government of the day intended to send them out of the country. . The only crime of the individuals whom the Government wishes to deport is that they are endeavouring to make the lot of their fellow citizens better than they found it. If the bill becomes law, it will be possible to deport these men on the  ipse dixit  of the Minister or a board. They can be deported without a trial by jury. Australians pride themselves on being ultra-British in upholding the right of an accused person to a trial by a jury of his peers, which -right has come down to us from Magna Charta. If there was no law under which it was possible to deal with 'these men, there might be some justification for this bill; but even then it should at least contain that . wellknown tenet of British law - the right of trial by jury. The bill provides for the appointment of a board by the Governor-General in Council. I point out. however, that no person coming before such a board will receive a fair trial, for he will have been condemned to deportation before his case is heard. Such a board would be composed of political friends of the party opposite, and the accused person would have no right to challenge its personnel. 
He should have the same right as that given to accused persons under the British law, which stipulates that an accused shall be deemed to be innocent until he is proved guilty. Under this bill, however, that procedure would be reversed, and the accused would have to show cause why he should not be deported. In other words, he would have to prove his innocence of the charge laid against him, instead of the Government proving his guilt. No matter how heinous the crime may be, the responsibility rests on the pro secution under the British law of proving the guilt of the person charged. But this bill is not only a travesty of British justice; it is also an insult to the intelligence of the people of Australia. The board, appointed ostensibly by the Governor-General in Council, would be composed of the nominees of the government of the day, and, of course, would be politically biased. The Minister expressed the hope that his voice would reach beyond the confines of this chamber. Through the medium of the press, no doubt, it will. This Government poses as the friend of the working class, and claims to pass legislation that will benefit all sections of the people. I regret that there ' was not a microphone in front of the Minister, broadcasting his remarks throughout the land. 
I am sorry that his speech will not reach every home in Australia, for' then the trade unionists of this country would understand the true purpose of the bill. 
Yes. The people will be able to obtain a true account through the medium of  Hansard,  but a lot of printing would be involved if a copy of it were to be sent to every home in Australia. The unions of Australia consider that an attack is being made on their organizations. A person arraigned before a biased board such as is proposed would have no chance of escape. If there is' need to try these people, let them be brought before the courts of the land. There are industrial tribunals, police courts, local courts, State Supreme Courts, and the High Court of Australia. In all these courts legal machinery is provided.' Acts of Parliament are in existence to deal with every conceivable class of offence or crime which may be committed by any person in Australia. That being so, what is the necessity for introducing this legislation? Let us for a moment consider that great charter of British liberty which was signed in June, 1215,. and see what it has to say about trials. I am concentrating on the great defect of this bill - the absence of trial by jury. Let me be frank and say that the de-  portation clauses of this bill are anathema to me. But I point out that if the Government is so anxious to rid the community of undesirables it should, at least, adopt the fundamental tenets of British justice. Chapter 39 of that great charter to which I have referred says - 
No freeman shall be arrested or detained in prison, or deprived of his freehold, or banished, or in any way molested, and wo will not set forth against him, nor send against him, unless, by lawful judgment of his peers and by the law of the land. 
Honorable senators will see that that charter provides that a man shall be dealt with not only by a jury of his peers, but also according to the law of the land. If this bill becomes the law of the land, it should contain a provision for trial by jury. Chapter 40 of Magna Charta reads - 
To none will we sell, to none will we deny or delay right or justice. 
Some writers have maintained that the charter does not promise trial by jury, but I desire to draw attention to certain parts of these1 chapters' which have only one meaning. The language in chapter 39, which I have read, is plain and explicit. It undoubtedly provides that before any man is condemned for a crime or an offence he shall be tried by a jury of his peers. But, instead of that, this bill provides for a secret trial, and a man may be deported without a proper trial by an impartial court. The bill robs a man who is accused of any of the offences mentioned in it of the justice dispensed by the law courts.  Sir James  Macintosh, in his  History of England,  at pages 219 and 220, makes this statement - 
In these clauses of the charter are clearly contained habeas corpus and trial by jury, the most effectual security against oppression which the wisdom of man has hitherto been able to devise. 
Taswell-Langmead, in  English Constitutional History,  page 103, writes - 
There is a breadth about the simple language employed, as if those who wrote it felt that they were- asserting universal principles of justice. 
Is this Government, in the measure before us, advocating universal principles of justice? The Leader of the Government in this chamber referred to the edifice of democracy that has been erected, and which he said that certain imported gentlemen desire to destroy. There are men in this country who helped to build up that edifice  of  democracy, and blazed the track in Australia long before the right honorable gentleman himself took part in the trade union movement, who, under this measure, could be deported, without any trial. Simply because some political partisan accuses him of having taken part in what is called a serious industrial disturbance, he may be sent from the country. This measure, instead of upholding the universal principles of justice, violates them. TaswellLangmead goes on to say -  henceforth,  it  must have been a clear  principle  of our constitution that no man can be detained in prison without a trial. 
The measure before us permits a man  to  be taken from his home, placed on board a ship, and sent away from this country without a proper trial. He may even be placed in custody before the board which is to deal with him has any knowledge  of  his case. Blackstone, in his  Commentaries,  writes of -Magna Charta - 
It protected every individual of the nation in the free enjoyment- of his life, his liberty, and his property, unless declared to be forfeited by the judgment of his peers. 
There is the commentary of this learned gentleman on that great charter, which no true British subject has ever yet denied. That principle stands in every portion of the far-flung British Empire. This Government, which prates about its loyalty to the Empire, now attempts to scatter  to  the four winds of heaven those very tenets of British justice that have made the Empire what it is. Hallam, in his  Middle Ages,  writing on these chapters, said of them that they - 
Protect the personal liberty and property of all freemen by giving security from arbitrary imprisonment and arbitrary spoliation. 
And Creasy in his  English Constitution, wrote1 - 
The ultimate effect of this chapter was to give and to guarantee full protection for persons and property and for  every  human being that breathes English air. 
I particularly wish to draw attention to those last words, "guarantee full protection to every one that breathes English air." Are we not breathing British air in Australia? 
Yes.  It  is good wholesome Australian air which we  in this wonderful Australian climate enjoy, and that air is permeated with the ideals of British justice. On the borders of Texas, or on the ice-clad Klondyke gold-fields, more chance would be given to a man who broke the laws of the mining held than this measure allows to a mau m Australia who takes part in an industrial disturbance. 1 remind honorable senators that the whole purpose of this measure is to attack men who engage in aD industrial disturbance. Why should these men be singled out? We have had industrial disturbances in the past, and there may be further disturbances in the future. The object of industrial unrest is to try to better the conditions under which men live. I do not say that our conditions in Australia are worse than those in other countries; I say that they are better. As one who under this measure could be deported - I am not . Australian boro - I desire to say that as a worker I have found the conditions in Australia better than they were in the land of my birth ; but while I say that, 
I do not say that they cannot be improved. When we reach the stage where we consider an improvement is impossible, we have reached the stage of stagnation. Because these disturbances will arise from time to time, and because they cause inconvenience, the Government wants to take to itself the powerto summarily deport people from this country. The existing lawsprovide ample power to' deal with any person engaged in an industrial dispute. 
II has been freely stated that this measure has been introduced with the sole object of giving the Government the power to deport two persons at present concerned in the maritime dispute ; but  ito.  provisions are so comprehensive chat they can be applied to any person associated with an industrial disturbance causing an interruption in our transport services. 
Instead of introducing this measure, under which certain ' persons who are acting on behalf of their fellow men can be deported, the Government should have brought in an amending Arbitration Act bill, making it possible for the trade unionists to approach the court without the unnecessary delays and the great expense that is at present involved. Only recently an industrial organization, after expending a large portion of its funds in placing its case before the court and receiving an award, had to incur additional expense and inconvenience in defending the award before the High Court. Would it not have been infinitely better to introduce an amending Arbitration Bill instead of this vicious measure, and thus make the path to the Arbitration Court easier than it is at present? Under the bill, power is given to deport any person deemed to have been associated with an industrial dispute. It is true that a board is to&gt; be appointed before which such persons can appear, but- that tribunal is to be appointed by the GovernorGeneral in Council, which, of course, means the Government. The measure has been introduced with the sole object of destroying trade union organizations in Australia; and under its provisions any person born in England, Ireland, or Scotland will be regarded as an alien. The Minister for Home and Territories  (Senator Pearce)  and  Senator Lynch  were a few years ago strong advocates of trade unionism, and' actually led a . strike in Western Australia. The Minister was almost a republican. 
The right honorable gentleman knows that, he held republican ideas at that time. 
If this measure had been on the statute-book when the Minister was advocating the cause of the timber-workers in Western Australia, he would have been deported. 
 Senator Lynch  must remember that 6s. per day at that time was almost equivalent to the present- daily wage. 
Not by any means, but the purchasing power of money has decreased. 
I say that at 6s. or 8s. per day the limber -workers of 
Western Australia were on a starvation rate, and even to-day the pay of the workers generally is not commensurate with the cost of living. When a boy of twelve years old I was working in a coal mine for ten hours a day and received lOd. per day. 1 had to walk 1 miles to the colliery, descend a vertical shaft 720 yards in depth, and then walk over 2 miles to the face where we were working. A man in those days who endeavoured to ' improve the conditions of the boys would have been regarded as an undesirable person. When redress is impossible by constitutional means the strike weapon is absolutely essential. 
That is the construction which I am placing on the measure. There are people in Australia who have been the cause of greater industrial unrest and widespread misery than the leaders of any trade union. I refer to the profiteers whom the ex-Prime Minister  (Mr. Hughes)  said he would shoot at the first opportunity, but from whom, instead of carrying out his threat, he cheerfully accepted £25,000. When our Australian soldiers were giving their life-blood m protecting the interests of  the profiteers, these men were raising the price of the commodities they were selling in order to obtain material advantage. There were also the rack-renting landlords, who increased the rents of buildings occupied by soldiers' wives and others, in some cases, by 100 per cent. 
These profiteers and rack-renting landlords to whom I have referred cause more unhappiness and misery in Australia than any industrial leader, yet the bill does not provide for their deportation. We know also that we have in our midst combines controlling sugar, shipping, coal, timber, tiles, bricks, and many other industries. The Labour party once endeavoured to induce the people of Australia to allow the Constitution to be altered in such a way that this Parliament could deal with those people, but that proposal was rejected. The ship-owner increases freights and fares without reference to any industrial or arbitration  court or wages board. He arbitrarily fixes the amount that we shall pay. to travel on his steamers, and to have our goods carried by them. Such persons act more injuriously to the public than those at whom the bill is aimed. 
To emphasize the necessity for making provision *or trial by jury, I shall quote from a leading article that appeared in the Melbourne  Herald  of the '!th July, 1925, under the heading, " The  Herald's  Fight for Free Speech." It said - 
A verdict has been given that upholds the right of a newspaper to publish its honest views on a matter of public interest, however severe these 'views ' may be, however derogatory and detrimental to any individual. " In matters of public interest," said the Chief Justice in his summing up of the case, " not only the press but every citizen has a right to say what he thinks, no matter how injurious it may be to the other man who is affected by it. He has a perfect right to do this, and in many cases, if he is a man of courage, he ought to deal with it as a duty in addition to a right." 
The article goes on to say - 
The newspaper shares that right with every citizen. Had the  Herald  in this case not fought for and won a verdict in its favour, the right of every citizen to express an honest  opinon  would have been in jeopardy. 
In conclusion the article  states  - 
It was for the protection of these rights that the  Herald  was compelled to fight this case, for that freedom of criticism in matters of public interest, both political and social, artistic: and in every other way, which, as the Chief Justice emphasized, is the basis of the politic and social institutions in our country. The outcome of this case means that so long as a man or newspaper expresses what he honestly believes to be the truth, he need not fear the consequences. Neither courts nor juries shall take away, either from the press or from citizens, that great fundamental right of our liberty, the right of free speech and free criticism in matters of public interest. 
This bill will certainly take away that right if it becomes law. I am approach-, ing the time when, according to the Standing Orders, I must resume my seat. Therefore, any further remarks that I may have to. offer I shall reserve for the committee stage. I realize that the numbers are up, and that this bill will eventually reach the statute-book. When it does it will be a blot on the national escutcheon. I reminded  Senator Wilson  a little while ago that the day is not far distant when the authors, the sponsors, and the supporters of this legislation will  have to appear before a jury, before whom I shall be a witness. That jury will be the people of Australia. When they have heard the evidence, their verdict will be, "Guilty of an attack upon the foundations of British justice," and their sentence, " Political death." When the sentence has been carried out, those who support this legislation will be lowered into their political graves un-. wept, unhonoured, and unsung. 
I desire to express my opposition to this measure. I compliment the Minister  (Senator Pearce),  not on the information that he gave, but on the manner in which he withheld it.  His  justification for the bill is that it is necessary to preserve the institutions of Australia. The Prime Minister, when introducing the bill in another place, did not resort to camouflage. He said that its object is to enable the Government to take action in time of industrial strife, with a view to deporting certain persons who are connected with the unions which are concerned in the strife. It is quite true, as  Senator Pearce  said, that the Australian Labour party resolved, at its conference, to debar communists from membership of the party, whether they be of British, Australian, or foreign birth. But the Labour party has not, and will not for any consideration, take away from them the right to live in our community, to form their own organizations, and carry out their own propaganda of the principles in which they believe. T have come . in contact with many communists, and I know many personally. The majority possess intellectual talent far above that of the average man. I remind honorable senators that twenty years ago  Senator Pearce  spoke from a socialist platform on the Yarra bank, under a banner which had inscribed on it the words : " Workers of the world, unite. You have nothing to lose but your chains." The right honorable senator said to-night that that is to-day the. slogan of the communist party. He did not tell honorable senators that it was the slogan of the party under whose banner he, twenty years ago, moved a resolution protesting against militarism and advocating internationalism. He said to-night that one of the offences of these men is that they believe in internationalism. Who does not believe in it? We all know that the future peace of the world depends upon the creation throughout the world of the spirit of internationalism. I have not heard any man speak with greater eloquence than the right honorable  senator who introduced this bill regarding the necessity for preserving the peace of the world and creating a spirit of internationalism. Is it not a fact that what he urged to-night as a justification for the bill was urged against him and others who, 25 or 30 years ago, were prominent in the Labour movement? When I was a young man I remember a demonstration being held in South Melbourne to welcome two men. They were not communists. They were Messrs. Sleath and Ferguson, the leaders of a strike, who had just been released from jail in New South Wales. They were the labour socialists of the day, just as  Senator Pearce  at that time was a labour socialist. But because they had taken part in an industrial dispute the law as it then existed grabbed them and jailed them. During the groat maritime strike of 1890 there was not one man connected with the Seamen's Union who belonged to1 the communist party as it is known to-day, and I know no communist in Australia to-day who has sufficient influence to create industrial strife. The only persons I have heard proclaiming themselves as communists are men who are intellectually superior to the majority of honorable senators. 
-- I explained during  Senator Pearce's  brief absence that we refused to accept communists into our ranks because the Australian Labour party has a clear and definite policy, with which the policy of the communists conflicts. But while we refuse to admit the communists as members, we do not turn round and say that, because we differ from them, and have a definite policy which is not in accordance with theirs, they should be deported. We do not say that an alien who is a communist, and happens to be a member of the executive of a union which is on strike should be treated in a different fashion from an executive officer of the same union who happens to be Australian-born. A communist from abroad who is a member of a trade union may accept his responsibility as a unionist and become a member of the executive of  a union, lr he does not shirk his responsibility as an executive officer of that union during a strike, why should the Government bring in a measure to deport him when there i3 no law to inflict a penalty on the Australian-born unionist who may bf.- an executive officer of the same union? I complimented  Senator Pearce,  not on the infjrmatif.u he gave, but on what he witiihdd. The bill has been discussed in another plm.., where the Prime Minister,  Mr. Tiruce  . gave the impending shipping dispute as the principal reason for the u -icy of the measure. The right hon- oi.t.o  member claimed that the Govern-  Ti''  ".-a3-  justified in bringing forward i his legislation because there was a possibility of a dispute. If ever a man has been guilty of making an inconsistent statement, the right honorable gentleman was in justifying the introduction of the bill on that ground, when its real purpose is to enable  Mr. Walsh, Mr. Johannsen, Mr. Garden,  and others to be deported. At least two of them are Britishers. 
I do not know his nationality. I only know that he is an executive officer of the Seamen's Union, and that he is merely carrying out certain responsibilities placed upon him by the union - responsibilities that are also borne by other executive officers, whether they be Australian or British born. The Prime Minister made this remarkable statement - 
No matter what legislation we may pass, no matter what powers we may have under this particular bill, I know and I feel that Parliament and legislation will have no effect in settling the possible dispute between the shipowners and the seamen. Nothing contained in this bill will assist us in doing it. 
Then why has the bill been introduced? What have the communists of Australia as an organization or individually done to justify the Government in bringing forward this measure and asking Parliament to treat it as urgent legislation ?  Senator Pearce  is not in a position to say that because of the action of any communist the Government is justified in the course it is taking. We are entitled to know from him why the bill has been brought forward. My opinion is that it is a deliberate attempt on* the part of the Government, not only to incite the men, during this time of industrial uncertainty, but also to invite them to do certain things as a protest against the passage of this sort qf legislation. 
The onus is on the Government to justify its introduction. 
Whatever differences of opinion there may be between the seamen and their officers, if, as the result of the passing of this bill, the Government dares to arrest  Mr. Walsh  or  Mr. Johannsen  and deport either of them, that step will be immediately followed by the tying up of every vessel on our coast. 
I say without qualification that if the vessels were running and there was a possibility of them stopping, the Government could take no action to bring about the total cessation of work with a greater certainty than they could by arresting and deporting the seamen's leaders. 
If  Senator Reid  believes half of the union are so inclined, they have only to go to the ballot-box and get rid of their leaders. These men hold their responsible positions to-day because they have the confidence of the members or the powerful union they serve. 
SenatorFoll. - Ha.s the honorable senator read what the stewards say about the leaders of the Seamen's Union? 
The stewards have a separate organization. 
The stewards control their own affairs. 
I know that when the seamen walk ashore the firemen, trimmers and deck hands stop work, and if the men in the stokehold walk out the whole ship is immediately tied up. But the Stewards Union, as an organization, has separate autonomy. 
That is an absolute misrepresentation of my attitude on industrial matters. I do; not suppose that any person in the community would derive pleasure from the tying up of ships as a result of the present dispute. I remind  Senator Foll  that I can say without egotism that I speak with knowledge on industrial affairs, because I took part in the negotiations to bring about the settlement of the great maritime dispute, and have, probably taken a more important part in the settlement of industrial disputes than any other honorable senator. I look forward with dread to the possibility of any great strike, knowing only too well the awful consequences to those who are thrown out of employment. "Where is the urgency of this bill? Why has the closure been applied? The names of Messrs. Walsh, Johannsen and Garden have been mentioned in another place, but what has been done by them to justify the desire to deport them? I have no recollection of the introduction of any bill of such far-reaching importance and with so little to justify it. The Minister certainly furnished a brief history of the industrial laws of our country. We did not need to be told that there is an arbitration act as well as wages boards, and state tribunals in every part of the Commonwealth. We have workmen's compensation acts and the Invalid and Od-age Pensions Act. But what have those measures to do with the vital principle contained in this bill ? For the first time in the history of the parliaments of the British dominions, this Government proposes to put Britishers on the same basis as aliens by enacting that if they have taken part in an industrial strike they may be 'deponed. Where would men such as Messrs. Fisher. Hughes and Holman have been but for the industrial strikes of the past? They secured their seats in Parliament and became Ministers of the Crown as a result of industrial struggles. When the ranks of the Labour party were split on a great issue those men left us. but that did not prevent the Labour movement from achieving political suc cess, since the Labour party is now in power in five of the six states of the Commonwealth. What made our party the great fighting force it now is was the poverty and degradation of . the industrialists in by-gone years. The toilers decided that instead of sending their "bosses" into Parliament they should return men from their own ranks. The first acid test put on members of our party was that they should accept their responsibilities during the progress of strikes. The Leader of the Senate expressed no regret that he considered it necessary to introduce the bill. I cannot understand a man who has been through the industrial mill, and has led a union during a strike, enthusiastically supporting a proposal of this character, which is contrary to the spirit of Australian democracy. When I was a. member of another place, an important measure was introduced to prohibit preference to unionists in Government employmentOne of the Ministers, the present Chief Justice of "Victoria  (Sir William Irvine),  said that he stood for the maintenance of industrial peace, but he admitted that the time had not yet come, and probably never would, when Parliament could pass laws to take from the trade unionists the right to strike. The ex-Prime Minister  (Mr. Hughes)  told the .House on that occasion that strikes could be prevented . by act of parliament, but Stir William Irvine, who was then Attorney-General in the Cook Government,  held a different view.' With the present Leader of the Government in this chamber, the ex-Prime Minister  (Mr. Hughes),  as well as  Mr. Andrew  Fisher, I have attended trade union conferences ' which advocated the preservation in cur industrial laws of the right of trade unionists to strike. By the manner in . which they have approached the court, trade unionists have shown that while they will, if necessary, fight to retain that right, they will first exhaust every constitutional means of effecting a settlement of disputes. The right honorable gentleman who moved the  second reading of this bill once stood for the right of unionists to strike, but he now proposes ihat a. man who in a period of industrial strife shoulders his responsibilities as an executive officer of an industrial organization, shall be liable  £o  be deported.  The Government and its supporters would deport Walsh, but would they deport Baddeley, who may be equally guilty of an offence under this legislation?  Senator Payne.  -  Mr. Baddeley  is an Australian ; this measure does not provide for the deportation of Australian-born citizens. 

 - Mr. Walsh is a Britisher, and is one of the best living men in the country to-day : his personal character is beyond reproach. He has a. talented wife and six young Australian children. No matter to what extent honorable senators may disagree with his. views, they cannot point to any flaw in his character. It is a great achievement for any man at the head of an organization comprising 8,000 members to retain the confidence of nine-tenths of them. In another place the Government and its supporters were more definite- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Newland).  - I remind the honorable senator that it is against the Standing Orders to refer to a debate during the current session in another place. 
While honorable senators who sit behind the Government may be prepared to support a bill -without being in the possession of information concerning it, and at the behest of their leaders to strike a blow at a wellreccgnized principle, we, on this side, desire te have information placed before us, so that we may cast an intelligent vote. 
Then honorable senators know more about the measure than did the Minister who introduced it. The Minister ought to have attempted to justify the' introduction of this bill.' Certainly he gave as one reason for its introduction the refusal of the Australian Labour party to permit communists to remain in the party. For that action the Australian Labour party is prepared to accept full responsibility. But the exclusion of communists from that organization does not mean that we on this s'ide are prepared to refuse them the rights that are enjoyed by every other section of the community. Honorable senators have spoken of the deplorable conditions in Russia, and have endeavoured to show that there is some connexion between those conditions and the Labour party in Australia. We. all know that the people of Russia have undergone a trying ordeal, but the remarks made would lead us to believe that, prior to the revolution, 
Russia was a country of free speech and a land of hope. We all know that it was a land of tyranny and oppression. When the people of Russia succeeded in establishing a new order in that country, congratulations were poured upon them by the Parliaments of such countries as Great Britain, the United States of America, Canada, and France, on having at last obtained their freedom. Later, an economic policy was put into operation by the communists, - who believed that they could create a new world in a short period. The fact that they failed should not cause us to exult. All that we know is that, by degrees, they are getting back to a sounder economic position. I read recently that the Russian wheat yield this season was equal to 80 per cent, of the yield in pre-war clays. Visitors to the Empire exhibition, who also visited other countries, have told us on their return of the ignorance displayed by people in Great Britain, and elsewhere, concerning Australia. When one considers ' the feats of Australians during the war, and, later, in the field of sport, that such ignorance should still exist is surprising. It is more than probable that the majority of the- people of Russia have never even heard of Australia. If so little is known of Australia in Britain and other countries, it is conceivable that we may not be correctly informed as to the extent to which Russia is re-establishing herself. There is no justification for the introduction of a bill to deport industrial leaders frGm this country. If legislation of this character had . been in existence some years ago. the Leader of the Government m this chamber, who to-day advocates the deportation of industrial leaders, would probably have been sent out of the country, together with  Mr. Andrew  Fisher. The ex-Prime Minister  (Mr. Hughes),  who led the waterside workers in a strike some years ago, would also have been liable to deportation under this bill. Where are the communists in Australia, to whom' special . reference has been made by the Minister? During the period in which I have been associated with the labour movement, I have no recollection of a single man or woman connected with communism ever being prosecuted for committing an offence against the laws of the land in which we live. Many years ago the present High 
Commissioner  (Sir Joseph. Cook)  delivered a notable speech in the New South Wales Parliament, in which he said, "I am a Republican. I stand for an Australian Republic. I hate monarchies, because in countries under the monarchial  system the people become servile. The day is not far distant when the sun will shine over a glorious Australian Republic."  Sir Joseph  Cook is an Englishman, and if this measure had been in operation when he made the statement which I have quoted, and when he openly advocated strikes he would have been deported. Instead of that he is to-day Australia's representative at the heart of the Empire. Many others who have held responsible positions in our party would have been similarly dealt with. It is useless to ask the Government to withdraw the bill, because it has the numbers aicd intends to place it on the statute-book. I do not think, however; the Government will ever have the courage - it dare not do what it proposes - to deport any man for what it terms offences under this measure. It cannot logically do so when it is remembered that the present High Commissioner  (Sir Joseph Cook),  the Minister for Home and Territories (Senators Pearce), and an ex-Treasurer of the Commonwealth  (Mr. W. G. Higgs),  have committed offences similar to those with which the industrial part of the bill deals. I too have been guilty, and will in the future act as I have in the past if the circumstances justify it. This bill is an insult to the Commonwealth Parliament and to a democratic country. In moving the second reading, the Minister said we are a most enlightened democracy, and that on election day the poorest men and women in the land have rights equal to those of the rich. Will they have equal rights under this bill? The members of the communist party or any other revolutionary body have no possibility of influencing the minds of the workers of Australia in such a way as to bring about revolution. When a vote is taken, I trust that the principles which animate the minds and actions of those who are' opposing the bill will have the support of certain honorable senators opposite, and that they will assist in preventing this pernicious measure being placed on the statute-book of the Australian Commonwealth. 
During the few precious moments that remain for me to address myself to the second reading of this measure, I wish, sir, in the first place, to direct the attention of the Senate to the somewhat curious utterances and behaviour of certain honorable senators on your left, who during the earlier stages of this discussion complained of not being given an opportunity to study the bill, to ascertain what it contains, and the effect of its provisions. They left the impression in my mind that they were entirely in the dark. Following on that, as honorable senators can plainly see, we have had from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  a most carefully prepared and comprehensive utterance, showing that, as far as he is concerned, nothing has been left undone in making a thorough, and exhaustive analysis of the subject which he said he had not had sufficient time to study. We have also had a most instructive speech from  Senator .Hannan,  showing that he, too, had gone to some trouble in preparing himself to effectively debate the bill. I have heard  Senator Hannan  speak before, and T can say that the ' speech with which he has just favoured the Senate surpasses all previous efforts. He discharged his task in a most creditable manner. I think if the honorable senator were asked his opinion of the way in which he had acquitted "himself, he would say that he had done well. Seeing that two honorable senators so far have rendered excellent speeches, notwithstanding that they had complained that they  had had insufficient time to make preparations, all I can say is, they have proved up to the hilt that their complaint is without foundation. 
I am sorry to have to refer to another feature of the debate. We, as elected representatives of. the people, should treat this matter dispassionately, and rid our minds of any lingering party prejudice. We should approach the performance of this most important duty as free from prejudice or bias as any judge. But, unfortunately, I am forced to believe that honorable senators opposite enter this chamber for the performance of important duties, with their minds overflowing with some lingering prejudice for or against a measure, or the government responsible for its introduction. If I were asked for a justification of that statement I should reply that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham),  for instance, stated that, this measure was aimed at the destruction of trade unionism. 
It is clear that the honorable senator has not read the bill, for if he had done so he would know that it does not contain a solitary reference to trade unionism or trade unionists. There is not a single reference to any one associated with trade unionism. Special reference, however, is made to citizens in this country who have sheltered themselves under its friendly protection,, but of which they are no longer worthy. 
They may be wellpaid agitators, persons who have turned to bolshevism, or landlords of the type of the honorable senator, who- has a rent roll as long as this table, but who will not go to Russia,, because, in that country, he would probably have to walk in front of a rusty bayonet. The bill is directed at a certain class of people who are misbehaving themselves in this country, who need to be kept in order, and who, if they are not disciplined, will bring about disorder. If they cannot behavethemselves we must deport them to the land of their birth, because we cannot be responsible for . their actions. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and other honorable senators have said that they were compelled to approach the performance of the task of debating this measure with minds quite unprepared, but they have entered this chamber to-day loaded with party bias and prejudice. They have laid a charge against the Government. What is it? That the Government is out to destroy trade unionism, which is a foul and dastardly misrepresentation of fact, and is only in keeping with the stock in trade of the men who live by telling lies, and nothing else. These men live by political crime, and by besmirching the characters of upright men in this country. They say that I am out to destroy trade unionism.. The confounded impertinence of these wretches! I was associated with trade unionism long before this senatorial youth on my right, for instance, discarded petticoats. I refer to .  Senator McHugh.  Although he has only been a member of a trade union for a very little while, he refers in disparaging terms to honorable senators on this: Bide of the chamber, who were largely responsible for the establishment of the trade union movement in Australia, and who, at great personal sacrifice, raised it to its present high level. It was owing to the careful guidance, sacrifice, tolerance, and high-mindedness of the men whom he now condemns that trade unionism is what it is to-day. The honorable senator, and others who have come into the party at the eleventh hour, are 'bringing the movement which has done so much for them to a lower level than it has ever been before. Where" are the men of the type of  Mr. W.  G. Spence, the late  Senator R.  S. Guthrie,  Senator G.  F. Pearce,  Mr. J.  C. Watson, and  Mr. Andrew  Fisher? 
These johnniescomelately have never done anything in either their collective or individual capacity to raise trade unionism to its present importance. Yet they try to besmirch the character of honest men. They talk to me about trade unionism ! I have , been a trade unionist for 40 years, and I am still one to-day. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Newland)  .  - Order ! 
These men are not the friends of trade unionists. I pay my contributions regularly. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT. - Order ! 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  - I have called  Senator McHugh  to order three or four times. If he does not observe the Standing Orders and obey the call of the Chair I shall have to take appropriate action. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT. - Order ! I shall ask the Leader of the 
Senate to take the necessary steps to deal  with  the honorable senator if he attempts to defy the Chair. 
I was addressing myself very seriously to the position that has been created in this chamber by those who are opposing the bill. "They resort to the ancient practice of poisoning the wells. In days gone by, if an unscrupulous foe could not compete successfully against an honorable rival, he would go ahead and poison the wells so that when pursuing legions arrived to quench their thirst they had only to drink the poisoned fluid and they would be beaten before they entered the field of combat. So to-day public opinion is Being poisoned in order that a verdict may be given against us. The charge is levelled against us that we are trying to  ruin  tirade unionism, but neither it nor any other charge is supported by proof. Every posturer and malefactor merely makes a charge and lets the proof go hang. Let honorable senators follow up their charges with chapter and verse. This charge is on a par with other maledictions and lies that emanate from the other side of the Senate. 
The  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT.I ask  Senator Lynch  to withdraw the expression. 
I did not refer to honorable senators individually. I say again that honorable senators are responsible for these lies. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  - Will  Senator McHugh  please resume his seat. I have asked  Senator Lynch  to withdraw the expression, and he has noi! done so. Will he kindly withdraw it now. 
I withdraw it, but I say that certain persons outside this Senate and honorable senators opposite when they are not in the Senate return to the charge like a dog returns to his vomit. They heave at- honorable senators on this side one charge after another, each of which is a confounded lie, and they know it. They told the people that when the Nationalist party came into office the old-age pensions would go. That was a lie. They also said the maternity allowance would go. That was another lie, and a confounded one. Both those Labour-made laws are oh the statutebook to-day. Have honorable senators opposite no fairer means of fighting than that ? The  Deputy  Leader of the Labour party in another place,  Mr. Anstey,  at one time conducted a newspaper, the policy  of which was summed up in the following statement that appeared in it:- 
Truth will be admitted in these columns, but not to the exclusion of more interesting matter. We shall never recognize merit in our enemies nor vice in our friends. 
In the old Labour party  Mr. Anstey  could not make any progress. The reason was that the standards in those days were much higher than they are now. He was always kept in the ranks. He is  deputy  leader of the party to-day because the standards are lower. The latter day Labour party has no regard for honour, conscience, or truth. I have proved that statement out of their own mouths. What chance has an opponent with the members of that party to-day?  His  chance is equal to that of the man who, having agreed to settle an argument with fisticuffs, finds that his opponent has a dagger concealed in his cloak. The Labour party to-day has a stiletto secreted in its cloak.. That is the way in which it always engages in a "battle. It has no respect for truth. What chance has any honorable antagonist against such a party? It is devoid of all sense of honour and truth. When members of that party level against us charges such as those which I have mentioned, there is only one word that can correctly describe them - they are liars, and they know it. What other charges have we had levelled against us? It was said that the Commonwealth Line of Steamers was to go, despite the fact that the vessels were put on the water by a Nationalist Government, but they are still sailing the waters under the Commonwealth flag. They would be driven out of th« service if certain poisonous elements had their way. There would be no danger of that if we could secure the co-operation of men who should co-operate with us. So far they have not done so, but on the contrary have used every means in their power to abstract the last farthing from society. The Commonwealth Shipping Line has lost half a million pounds, and the taxpayers have had to put their hands into their pockets to make up the deficiency. Is that fair play? Who is deriving the benefit? The greatest benefit has gone to those who have endeavoured to bring about the downfall of the line. Has any proof been given of the charge that this Government proposes to take the Commonwealth ships off the service? No. Yet these men do not scruple to make that charge. We have to listen to these charges and look pleasant. We are expected to be like the saints of old, and to turn the other cheek. I have not turned the other cheek, and I never will. The people outside have , to listen to these statements day after day. Honorable senators opposite admit that they have no respect for proof, for honour, or for the ordinary art of playing the game. In the days gone by it was the policy of labour to raise men from a lower to a higher level. That has now' been reversed. What manner of men are these? They come here looking like men, but they do not behave as men should. After all, a man's word should be the most precious thing in his life. These men break their word every minute of every hour of every day in the week in order to gain a temporary advantage. They try to besmirch the honour of honorable senators on this side'. We are here as the chosen of the people, and we have been chosen in a more honorable manner than they. 
If only a tithe of the charges which are made against us were true, would we not be foolish to engage in the political life of this country? These men are poisoning the wells of public opinion, making charges, but never following them up with proofs. When we, as a party, go before the electors, we point to our record and say "That is what we have done." We then slate what we propose to do, and ask that we be judged by our acts and not by the false charges of our opponents. We are not going to take these charges lying down. This is a free democracy. It is a place in which every man should be free to  ex-.  press his opinions, the only qualifications being that he must not malign his neighbour, that hemust keep himself within the law of libel, and that he must not endeavour to overturn the social order in which he lives. He must be jealous of his neighbour's character, and see that the laws of the country are not defied. Those laws are an expression of the will of the people, and they have been passed for the protection of the weaker elements in society. Civilized law is designed and established to protect the weak fromthe strong. This bill proposes to ensurethat the law is obeyed. No longer will leniency be shown, to those who play tricks before high heaven. They must be made to see the error of their ways. They mush pay the penalty for any breach of the law. We are tired of the behaviour of these men. The bill that passedthis Chamber last night dealt with a mere handfulof trade unionists - no more than  2  per cent, of the men who are registered in the Commonwealth Arbitration Court. They pointed a pistol at the head of society and said, " You are ours; we are your overlords." It is about time that society said, " We object to that. You are only a fragment of the population of this country. Your leaders are not elected by the people. It is quite true that you exercise an authority greater than your numerical strength and your intelligence warrant, but you shall not do so any longer. You have been trampling on the interests of the great majority of the people, who have suffered foryour sakes. You have not benefited by that, and you do not acknowledge it, but the time has come when we must make you acknowledge that you are wrongdoers and should suffer the penalty provided for wrongdoers in any free democracy." 

 Sitting suspended from. 12 midnight to 1 a.m. (Friday). 


 Friday, 17 July 

Before the ad  journment I was referring to some of the prophecies that have gone wrong. One was that this bill was aimed at trade unionism. I need not labour the point, other than to say that all the prophecies in regard to the Nationalist Government have gone wrong, with perhaps one solitary exception. All the laws placed on the statute-book by the old Labour party have not been impaired in the slightest. They are still intact. The only exception I have referred to was something that did not at any time find its way on to the statute-book. Whatever  infringement there has been of the platform of the Labour party has been brought about by the latter-day party itself. The Labour law 'has been so badly fractured that it bears no resemblance to what it was when it waa placed by us on the statute-book. The policy of day labour has been capsized. It is up on the beach with its ribs stove in,, and has no resemblance to the craft of years gone by. It is no longer respected. The arbitration policy of the Labour party has gone the same way. If anything has been done to prejudice the platform of Labour, it has been done by Labour itself, and not by any National Government. 
In regard to the first part of this bill, I hope that the Government will not use the power now being sought with the object of lessening a well-considered and justified stream of migration to Australia. I am aware that the opponents of immigration have various methods of neutralizing the effort. They do not oppose it openly, but they do so by nonparticipation. For instance, the Theodore Government of Queensland would not come into the immigration compact arranged by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce),  but relied on getting immigrants from the surplus in the southern states if it could. I want it to be clear that immigration is not to be used as some of the opponents of this scheme believe it is to be used - as an instrument for bringing about a lower standard in the industrial and domestic life of Australia. It cannot do so in ordinary circumstances unless there is an abnormal stream of migrants from the European area, which by unreasonable competition may bring about the lowering cif the standard of living and working in this country. On the one hand, there are those in our midst who would like to see a great stream of immigration that would give them: a chance of picking and choosing from several applicants for the one opening for employment. There are others who want the choice of half a dozen jobs when there is necessity to look for employment. These two classes are about the least worthy of our citizens. They both look at the matter from a selfish standpoint. In between the two lies the larger and more intelligent and unselfish body of citizens, who want a well-balanced and well-considered scheme of immigration that will bring to thos country a large inflow of the virile manhood of the Old Country for the purpose' of developing the Commonwealth and adding to its citizenship. What effect has such a flow had on other countries, such as the United States of America and Canada, where conditions are similar to those in Australia?' Instead of being in a position to support a mere trickle of immigration: amounting to a few thousand a year - such as has been1 the case here - they have introduced hundreds of thousands of immigrants  each year. According to the  World's Almanac  1,135,377 people migrated from Europe to the United States of America in the years 1923 and 1924. According  to  the Canadian  Y carBook  during the ten years from 1901 to 1911 no less than 981,000 persons entered Canada, and during the- succeeding ten years no less than 511,000, a total crf 1,492,000 m 20 years. The Common wealth  Year-Bo&amp;k  tells us that from  1860 to 1923, Australia attracted 1,165,262 immigrants. We all know that Australia is capable of absorbing - as big a population as Canada or the United States of America. Its natural resources: are superior to those of Canada, yet the latter country received in 21 years more people than Australia received in 63 years. The United States of America attracted to its shores im two years as much as Australia attracted in 63 years. 
There are some who say that immigration should be confined to men of high standard so that the social conditions of the people of Australia may be improved. Personally I am not in a position to compare our social standard with those of Canada or the United States of America, but I can draw attention to the conditions that apply in New York, the state that receives the full impact of the great immigration stream from Europe to America, and is therefore a place where if the conditions of a country are made worse by &amp; heavy flow of immigrants we should find evidence of it. In the first place, according to the  World' » Almanac,  page 142 - 
Forty-eight hours or less was the scheduled work week of over one half (36 per cent.) of the women in the- five industries. This  sche-  date was in effect for 74 per cent, of the women in New York city and SO per cent, of the women up-state. 
Median weekly earnings of women in the four factory industries were 15.25 dollars. They were 16.25 dollars in New York city, and 14.25 dollars up-state. Median weekly earnings of women in the mercantile industry were Iti. 25 dollars up-state. 
That is a record that does not obtain in Australia. 
The position in Canada is much the same. It is quite clear that if there is any movement of population as between America and Australia; it is from Australia to America and not the other way. People -evidently regard both Canada and the United States of America as good places for working men, despite the fact that they receive a far greater volume of immigration than Australia gets. The history of these two countries stands oi.t in contradiction of the claim that the tide of immigration should -be lessened in order te improve our standards. Then in regard to the condition of affairs on the western side of the Continent,  Mr. French,  the head of a big business house in San Francisco, said to the  Herald - 
California's use of ' motors hod progressed phenomenally with the construction of bitumen roads. Registrations were now nearing the second million, and it was estimated that there was a car  lor every three  inhabitants, including women and .children. 
Let the Australian workmen and captains of industry join together and produce a good article just as is done in the United States of America, and it will be turned out just as cheaply as in the States. But as long as the practices that have crept in lately in Australia are continued that will never be done. We have  Mr. Henry  Ford's example to follow. As the result of a visit to the Ford works,  Mr. Robert  Blatchford, the author of  Merrie England,  was obliged to recant all be had said about the Ford system and admit that he was wrong. If the price .of motor cars in Australia is high the fault lies with ourselves. Instead of the United Stales of America being a suppliant for help before any council of the nations" of the world, it has become, by virtue of the vast tide of immigration that has been attracted to its shores, one of the arbiters of the world's destinies. 
I am coming to that, and when I do the honorable senator will be sorry. 
When 1 came to this country I brought a manly frame, and the equivalent of £1 ,000. The honorable senator who interjects arrived a* a mewling and puking infant. He war probably a nuisance then, and later on. but certainly he is a. nuisance now. Ye he claims now to have superior qualities He puts himself on a higher  pedestal  than his good old father who ploughed the country for him. 
 Senator Barnes  should remain quiet. By virtue of the accident of birth he claims this country as his own, and thinks himself a better man than his father was. Australia is the country of my choice; the honorable senator had. no choice in the matter. The bill also provides in concrete fashion for the preservation of the inalienable right of -all democracies to say who shall be part and ' parcel of themselves. When one reduces the comparison to the case of the citizen who forms part of the democracy, the same principle should be applied. The head of a household may allow a person to occupy a place under his roof, and at first this individual may appear to be a good fellow, and well-behaved, but if he afterwards shows himself to be disagreeable and undesirable, should the head of the household not have the right to eject him ? Of course he should. If such a person occupied the house of  Senator Barnes,  and conducted himself in a way that threatened to disturb the family  circle, the  honorable  senator, if I know him aright, would soon heave the disturber into the street, and the disturber would bear on his ungrateful body some marks of changed affection. That is what  Senator Barnes  would, and ought to, do. He would ask for no law or policeman .to stand between him and his outraged sense of hospitality and justice. And just as he would as in his own case, the 
Government invites  Senator Barnes  and those who think with him to do in the case of people living in this country who threaten to do harm to the community. This bill seeks to protect the most precious thing that has ever come within the custody of a free people - the liberty we now enjoy. We in Australia have done next to nothing to secure that grand charter of liberty. It was handed down to us after a succession of efforts in days gone by by' other men, and we now enjoy liberty the equal of which is not known in any other part of the world. Surely it is our duty to see that that priceless heritage is preserved and handed down intact to cur successors. It is because we should jealously guard that liberty that it is necessary to keep a close supervision over those who try to undermine it. It is imperative that we should guard it with a jealousy proportionate to its value. If a man, after years of toil, had saved sufficient wealth to tide him over a rainy day. he would not strew his money by the wayside, but would take steps to prevent himself from being robbed of it. 
This bill is for the purpose of putting the undesirable element in the community in its proper place. We are asked to believe that there is no danger from these people. Let me read . an. extract from the Melbourne press, which gives the names of some of the communists who subscribe to the funds of those seeking to overthrow the existing social order. The extract reads - 
A Sydney communist publication recently acknowledged contributions towards its election fund. The names of the contributors were: - S. Zerkaloff, K. Chuganoff, Makaeff. Laren, N. Andru, Melkus, A. W. Lord, W. Teshkin, K. Metianen, Lozen, A. Pozokoff. M. Burlakoff, J. Savkoff, Loboleff, Klemoff, Perebedencheff, Logen, p. Wish, D. Chapero. Fesdoroff, S. Chapero,A. Baranoosky, A. Lozon, K. King, Loozin.  Mrs. Goldberg,  and lt. Wood. 
Where are these dangerous people? Honorable senators opposite hold up their hands in horror at a proposal which their own party has already put into practice. In the Northern Territory there was an ardent section of that party who, when they found that officers entrusted with the administration of affairs there held views opposed to them, packed them off. They deported them without a trial ! 
Messrs. Carey and Evans. Although they were deported without a trial, honorable senators opposite were as dumb as Egyptian mummies. They never protested then. Why do they protest now, when Labour's example is followed with the superadded safeguard of a fair trial, which Labour then did not give? 
Some years ago a contingent of socialists left Australia for South America. They were the cream of the Labour party, and they tried to found a socialist colony. They succeeded for a time, but three of their number had to be expelled from their community. Stewart Grahame, on page 99 of his book,  Where Socialism Failed,  states that the following decree was issued: - 
Notice. 
All members will take notice that-- , - , and- have been expelled from the New Australia Co-operative Association for wilful and persistent violation of the clause in our mutual agreement, signed by them, relating to liquor drinking. 
Lane. Chairman. loth December, 1893. 
The author also wrote - 
The fact that the unfortunate offenders would be stranded in an Indian country many thousands of miles from home did not move him, nor did the fact that they had contributed all their possessions to his wild-cat scheme. There was neither room in New Australia for backsliders, nor mercy for them. 
Honorable senators' opposite object to similar action being taken in Australia. From Stewart Grahame's book,  Where Socialism Failed,  let me give two further illustrations of deportation from this little socialistic community in South America, which was comprised of better men than honorable senators opposite - 
The annual Cosme meeting for the election of committeemen, &amp;c., was due to be held on 13th May, 1898. On 9th May, William Lane and his nine existing committeemen met " to take action for the maintenance of Cosine principles." By their unanimous decision " two members were expelled from membership for antagonism to, and violation of, the Communist principles of Cosme." . . . 
The two expelled members were allowed the princely sum of about £6 each with which to convey themselves and families back to civilization, while those who left voluntarily received, roughly, £2 10s. per family. 
In July, 1901. when John Lane sailed upon his organizing campaign, the population of Cosme was 26 men, 16 women, 46 children. Total 88. By June, 1904, it had been reduced to 22 men, 11 women, and 36 children. Total 69. 
In regard to the third case of deportation from this communist colony, the following appears in their official journal : - 
As before, a dismissal " for persistent defiance qf colony authority and regulations," and subsequent secessions of '' old-timers," were largely responsible for the decrease (the expelled man was a member of six years' standing, who it was alleged during the last four years had shown anarchistic tendencies, and had throughout failed to work in harmony with those entrusted with the direction of thu colony industries, while latterly his attitude had become increasingly find more openly antagonistic.") 
When  Mr. Lane  came to this country. I sheltered him under my roof, and was glad to do so. I' saw those men going away, and they, were indeed splendid samples of Australian manhood and intelligence; I have never seen better. Yet they found it necessary to resort to deportation to preserve their social system. If it was right in their case and in the case of Labour in the Northern Territory, why should it be wrong for this Government to do the same thing ? The Government should go straight ahead, turning neither to the right nor to the left, and should not hesitate to expel from- this country any man who endeavours to destroy our social order or. brings the laws into contempt. In the past there has been too much disrespect for law and government in Australia. The men who would be dealt with by this legislation can stay here if they behave themselves, but if they continue to cause trouble they must go. If they do not go, they will bring down about our heads the glorious structure of liberty which has been erected here. For the reason that I do not wish that to happen, I shall support the second reading. 
I rise to oppose this measure, and in so doing propose to refer briefly to the concluding remarks of the honorable senator who has just resumed his seat. When speaking of a colony of socialists in South America, and the fact that they had deported some of their members, the honorable senator omitted to state that those members were expelled by the unanimous decision of the remaining members of . the community, after a trial by their peers. The measure that the honorable senator advocated so eloquently will abrogate the greatest principle of British justice! - trial by jury. I ask  Senator Lynch  if he  is  prepared to advocate throughout. Australia the abolition  of  that .fundamental principle of which  all  true Britishers are so proud ? When  the  Minister  who  introduced, the bill was speaking. I interjected that he should have presented  it in  two parts, so that honorable senators would have an opportunity to discuss the merits and demerits of each section separately. I (pointed out that the existing Immigration Act provided all the powers necessary to carry out the intention of the first _portion of this bill, and although the Minister said that I was wrong, I still maintain that I was right. The amending legislation of October of last year, providing for the prohibition of 'the immigration to Australia  of  any persons for any cause whatever, gave  to  the Government all necessary power to prevent undesirable people from, entering this country. I desire  nov  to refer to that portion  of the bill from clause '7 onwards. Portions of clause 7 should never have been included in any bill presented to an Australian Parliament. Among those who are privileged to si;t in this chamber  are  men who were not bom in Australia,  but  in other portions  of  the British Empire,  some of  whom have participated in industrial upheavals  in  Australia, even to the extent of taking a leading part in strikes. Do  those,  honorable senators think that it  is  right for this Parliament to enact legislation to prohibit  their  brothers - Englishmen, Irishmen, Scotchmen. Welshmen, men born in Canada, New Zealand, or other parts of the British Empire - from entering Australia  or  remaining here? Do they agree to their being treated as aliens, and placed on the same footing as citizens of foreign countries such as  Germany  or Russia. ? No language  of  mine is sufficient  to  condemn  a.  measure which' contains  such  provisions. I believe that  it  has been introduced for the purpose  of  covering up 'the sins of the present Government. I believe, also, that  if  the Government does its duty, the present industrial trouble can be satisfactorily settled* without legislation of this nature. But the Government does not  desire  a  settlement. It is hoping that this legislation will provide its supporters with a battle-cry for the next election. That battle-cry  will be heard sooner than they desire. 
This legislation will precipitate an appeal to the electors. I agree with those honorable senators on this side who have expressed their belief that this bill is aimed at trade unionism.. The existing. Arbitration Act provides for the registration of trade unions, as well as organizations of employees and employers. That act was brought into operation after years of agitation, extended negotiations,  and an almost desperate struggle between employers and employees, in the belief that it would be the means of abolishing industrial unrest. What has been our experience? Although we have a Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act; and amendments of it have been made from time to time, industrial unrest in Australia, as in. every other country where the principle of arbitration is observed, occurs almost as frequently as it did before legislative fiction was taken. Instead of attempting to amend the arbitration, laws in such a way as to make it easier for trade union- ists to approach the court, the Government has introduced a measure, the effect of which will be even more disastrous than the Government anticipate; it will cause industrial upheavals of greater magnitude than have ever been experienced in the Commonwealth. Honorable senators opposite have said that the passage of this bill will provide the authorities with the means of cleansing the trade anion movement, but, should that eves be necessary, trade unionists will be quite capable of doing their own work in their own way. The bill is not so much a direct attack upon Tom Walsh, Johannsen, and " Jock " Garden, as it is upon the leaders of the trade union movement throughout the Commonwealth. I have been associated with trade unionism for many years, and, as  president  of the Amalgamated Miners' Association . in New South Wales, I conducted a strike at Cobar. in New South Wales. I was compelled to act as I did contrary to my own wishes and the vote of  my  executive. The men decided to strike and left their jobs, and in such instances where leaders are* not responsible for the actions of their men, they will be held liable for the conduct of the '. men. There ' are instances, of course, when the influence of the leaders of a trade union organization is sufficiently strong to direct the men in the way the leaders think best, but there are occasions when the men insist upon deciding their own course of action. Even when the leaders are not responsible for strikes they can, under the provisions of this measure, be brought before a board appointed by the government of the day, which is in a sense a party to the dispute, and, without a proper trial, deported to the country whence they came. How will deportees be regarded by the authorities in the country to which they are sent? The governments in such countries will say, " To hell with you. You were regarded as an undesirable in the country you have left, and you cannot land here." We all remember the unfortunate experience * of Paul  Freeman,  who; after being deported from New South Wales, travelled backwards and forwards between Australia and America, and eventually, at his own request, was allowed to proceed to Russia, which was not the country of his birth. Russia was the only country in which he was permitted to land, because he had been declared an undesirable by the Government of . this country. Many men, who have been resident in Australia for five, twenty, or perhaps 40 years and have married English or Australian women and reared families, may be deported under this bill and compelled to leave their wives and happy little children behind them. Is that British justice ? If such men have been guilty of breaking the laws under which they have been living, they should be dealt with in a much less drastic manner than is proposed in this measure. The Government has sufficient power to punish them for what it regards is an offence, and can effectively deal with industrial disputes under existing legislation. We know what has occurred in. the past when men have endeavoured to improve their conditions and have resorted to strikes. They have been arrested, tried, and imprisoned. This measure reminds us of the conditions which existed in England in years gone by, when men had not the right to form trade unions or to bargain with their employers for higher wages or improved conditions of working. They were brought before the court, and thousands were sent to penal settlements in Australia, the West Indies, and other parts of the world. We are also reminded of the six Dorchester weavers who were deported for some slight irregularity in connexion with the oath they had taken before the union. The outcry was so great, and public opinion go enraged, that Parliament took ' cognizance of the situation and repealed the act under which they had been convicted. Trades unionism was then established, unionists had the right to. combine and to strike, and the freedom which they were given under the common law of England has ever since been regarded by them as their charter of liberty. Notwithstanding the fact that we have a Conciliation and Arbitration Act on our statute-book, the right to strike still remains, and despite the legislation which this or any other government may introduce, Australian workmen will never be deprived of the right to strike. It is not a new thing for a .government to introduce legislation of this repressive, coercive character, directed at the trade union movement. Other countries and states have tried the experiment, but the result has not fulfilled the anticipations of those who were responsible for it. In 1909,  Mr. Wade  introduced in the Parliament of New South Wales his famous coercion act, under which, if two men met in the street, they could be termed conspirators, arrested, tried under the common law of New South Wales, and . sentenced to imprisonment. At the very next appeal to the people, the Wade Government was hurled into political oblivion, and a Labour Government took its place. The first act of that Government was to repeal  Mr. Wade's  coercion act. In 1915,  Mr. H.  Homberg,  AttorneyGeneral in the South Australian Government, introduced legislation of a similar character. Where is now the Government of which  Mr. Homburg  was a shining light? It has gone to the wall. If the Commonwealth Government persists with this legislation, it will be displaced by a Labour Government! which may take action against those whom it considers to be disturbers of the peace in the industrial and political spheres. In South Africa, in 1914, industrial unrest occurred. The Smuts Government was then in power. Without waiting to pass legislation, it deported nine trade union leaders, eight of whom were British subjects, the other having been born in South Africa. ' Martial law was proclaimed throughout the mining districts of South. Africa. Under it these men were arrested, tried, and sent out of the country. Parliament was called together later, and passed the Indemnity and Undesirables Special Deportation Act, to legalize the action of the Government There may have been some justification for that action, as revolution was rampant throughout the mining districts, and there had been bloodshed on the Band. The Government was compelled to act, and it certainly acted effectively. But there' is not a revolution in Australia, nor has there been any bloodshed. There is no likelihood of such occurrences unless they are brought about by the repressive legislation of the Government. When the next appeal was made to the electors in South Africa, the Smuts Government was wiped out of existence. The Minister in charge of the bill stated in his second-reading speech that other countries in the British Empire had introduced legislation of this character, and he instanced Canada. Unfortunately, he did not give honorable senators the whole of the facts. In the Canadian act there is a section that  reads : - 
Provided that this section shall not apply to any person who is a British subject, either by reason of birth in Canada or by naturalization in Canada. 
The Canadian Government probably recognized, as this Government does, that it was necessary in its political interests to suppress the trade union leaders. Its legislation, however, did not place British subjects in the same category as aliens. That was a perfectly reasonable and just position for any government to take up, and it should be adopted by this Government. It is unbelievable that a government containing men of British nationality should introduce legislation placing Australians by adoption on the same level as aliens from the southern states of Europe, and the scum that comes from the Mediterranean ports. There can be no justification for that.  Senator Lynch  made a rather important statement which must be challenged. He said that the Commonwealth ships were put on the water by a Nationalist Government. That is not correct. It was a Labour Government, led by  Mr. Hughes  before the break-away on the conscription issue, that established the Commonwealth 
Shipping Line. The unions have not attempted to get rid of those ships, but had the Government been successful in its efforts, . the line would have ceased to exist. The Labour party made provision in. its platform for the establishment of a Commonwealth Shipping Line many years before that line was brought into being. That is still a plank in the platform of the Labour party, and will remain there long after both  Senator Lynch  and I have gone to our rest. 
He may have sold vessels belonging to the State Government, but that had nothing to do with the Commonwealth Shipping Line. The Minister  (Senator Pearce)  raised the questionof class consciousness. He laid great stress on the point that certain people, whom he termed foreign agitators, are trying to instil into the minds of the workers throughout Australia class consciousness. He did not attempt to give the meaning of class consciousness. I presume he means that the trade unions in Australia preach the doctrine of solidarity, that is to say. the doctrine that if the trade union movement is to resist attempts to batter it out of existence the unions must stand shoulder to shoulder. If that is his meaning, I admit that that is the position we have always taken up. We say that injury to one is injury to all. If one section of the trade union movement is attacked all the other sections spring to its assistance and stand behind it to the uttermost. If this bill passes, and is put into operation and  Mr. Walsh., Mr. Garden,  .  Mr. Johannsen,  and others, perhaps, are brought before the tribunal proposed to be appointed, found guilty of the offences charged against them and ordered to be deported, what will happen? I am not foolish enough to believe that the Government would not have the power to send them back to the countries' from which they came, because I realize that they could get the ships to take them away, but that would be only the commencement instead of the finish of trouble. The trade unions throughout the Commonwealth would be up in arms. Unions which at the present time are contented, having no grievance of any kind, would be dragged into the dispute because, as pointed out last night by  Senator Hannan,  there is an  esprit de corps  among them as strong as that which exists between the battalions of an army. The unions would resent to the uttermost any indignity and injustice perpetrated on any of their leaders. It would not be simply a question of what would happen to  Mr. Walsh  or  Mr. Johannsen.  Unfortunately, honorable senators opposite do not understand the psychology of the trade union movement. 
The honorable senator knows that I am speaking the truth. 
If honorable senators expect the trade unions to remain satisfied when trade union leaders are deported, they do not understand the psychology of the movement. I am afraid that within a very short space of time we shall be faced with the unfortunate position I have forecasted, because I take it the Government would not have brought down a bill of this character unless it proposed to make use of it. It is common knowledge that Messrs. Walsh, Johannsen, . and Garden will be deported as soon as this legislation comes into force. 
SenatorFoll. - I hope so. 
I hope not; because I do not want to see an industrial upheaval in Australia. 
But the honorable senator is going the right way about getting it. If he wants to avoid it, let him vote against the bill which proposes to give the power to deport trade union leaders. 
It has everything to do with trade union leaders, because they are the only people likely to break arbitration laws. The rank and file of the unions do not break those laws. Whenever a union gets an award, and  any  of the men employed under it  commit  a breach of it, the union a 8 a whole is punished, and its leaders may be imprisoned. 
An employer can be fined if he commits a breach of an arbitration award. 
But, unfortunately, he never is. 
I did not say thousands of cases. Let me clear up that point, so that there will be no misunderstanding. I said that I was appointed to police an award which had been obtained by the union of which I was president, and that in the early stages the award was generally observed, but that subsequently numerous complaints were lodged, and I had to take the employers to the court, where I succeeded in obtaining verdicts against them. 
I would not wish to do so. The law of the land as it stands at present gives sufficient power to inflict a penalty on any person committing a breach of an award. 
That is a matter for the Government to determine. What happened to people who were interested in strikes in years gone by? We were told to-night that Messrs. Sleath and Ferguson, two industrial leaders, were imprisoned for breaking the law of the land as it existed many years ago. I sincerely trust that if this bill becomes law it will never be brought into operation. I hope we shall never see trade union leaders arrested and deported, because, if such a thing should come about, I fear that a greater industrial upheaval will take place in this country than we have ever previously had. 

 Senator GRANT (New South Wales) visions, one restricting immigration and the other dealing in a very drastic manner with people who may be adjudged guilty of fomenting strife of an industrial character. As a preliminary I propose to refer to the first part of the bill, dealing with the restriction of immigration. According to the figures placed at my disposal by our very capable Commonwealth Statistician, 78 per cent, of the adult population and 85 per cent, of the total population of Australia are native-born. That is to say, practically the whole of the population is nativeborn. We ought to be very careful about adopting any measure that will tend to restrict our already very much circumscribed liberties. There is, of course, a wide difference between liberty and licence. I can quite understand the desirability of having order in the conduct of any business. But my experience has been that the moment any section is given any sort of power, about the first thing it does is to perform the operation of "digging in- in order to aggrandize its position and make it more and more difficult for others to enjoy the same rights and privileges. When a new political party was born in the Commonwealth, every person willing to subscribe to its platform was regarded as eligible for membership, and was admitted. But since that time no stone seems tq have been left unturned in circumventing the liberty of the subject and making it increasingly difficult for recruits to .be enrolled. Australia has an area of nearly 3,000,000 square miles, and the population is about 6,000,000 - an average of two persons to the square mile. Yet it is seriously contemplated that greater restrictions than now obtain should be placed on citizens born in Great Britain and other parts of Europe. The immigrants who settled in Australia in years gone by came of their own free will, and those who were deported from Great Britain to this country were sent here mainly because they had come into conflict with laws in the making of which they had no voice. A strong effort is being made by this bill to restrict the liberties now. enjoyed. The presentation by Great Britain to a mere handful of her sons of the vast heritage we occupy was the greatest gift in British history; and yet after this country had been occupied by us for some time a few of the nativeborn section of the community sought to  prevent other  Britishers from, making their home here. The present immigration laws are sufficiently severe. Thousands of pounds a year are spent on propaganda, and the money largely goes in official salaries; but it is regrettable that much time is spent in trying to increase the difficulty confronting those who desire to come here and make Australia their home. History shows that all countries have arrogated that right to themselves. . It would be well to take a wider view than that, and consider permitting white people from any portion of the Empire to settle freely in any other part of it. If we determine to exclude our fellow British subjects in Canada and other parts of the Empire,- probably we shall soon decide to cut adrift from the Empire altogether and form a republic. During the last three months, the immigration into the Commonwealth of Europeans was only 10,468, out of which no less than 8,426 were British and 593 coloured people. There is no justification for the drastic provisions contained in the first part of the bill, but I do not think the Government is at all serious about that portion of the measure; it is chiefly concerned about the Second part. In my opinion, the bill is aimed directly at the officers of the militant trade unions. Had there been no industrial dispute imminent at the present time, neither this measure nor the Navigation Bill would have come before Parliament. We are assured by some honorable senators opposite that the trade union officials are not the target, but a cursory examination shows that they are. In this age considerable numbers of workers are daily accustomed to telegraphic, telephonic, and wireless communication. Throughout the Commonwealth the people are alert, and can get into communication with, one another with a rapidity that was impossible a few years ago. If an attempt were made to deport any trade union leader, a storm would be raised which would sweep the present Ministry from the treasury bench. From a political point of view, I cannot understand the attitude adopted by the Ministry, as the introduction of this legislation is a retrograde step which will bring discredit on all associated with them. Every honorable senator who votes for it should be pursued with undying hostility, and care taken that never again shall he disgrace the benches of the Parliament of this country. Such men are utterly unworthy to be placed in positions of trust. We have been informed that the present industrial trouble is due to the machinations of the industrial leaders. Nothing could be farther from the truth. Men who  make  such statements know nothing of trade unionism. I have had a long connexion with the trade union movement, and have no hesitation in saying that the Stonemason's Society - a fairly militant trade union, of which I am a member - has at all times been in the hands of the operatives, and not of its officers. The decisions arrived at have been made by the men themselves, and afterwards carried into effect by the officers of the union. I have teen a delegate to the Sydney Labour Council, the Eight Hours Committee, and many organizations belonging to, or intertwined with, industrial unions, but I have never seen the officers leading the men. The statement that the leaders of any union control the union  ja,  in my opinion, entirely erroneous. If a vote of the whole of the seamen were taken to-morrow, I do not think that one of their officers would be displaced. Some of the most militant unions conduct ballots for the election of their officers, and in connexion with other matters also. In the rules and by-laws of the trade unions there is no mention of leaders. They have their presidents, vice-presidents, secretaries, and other officers, and decisions are arrived at by the vote of a majority cif the members. The proposal in the second clause of the bill to make participation in an industrial upheaval an offence which may be punished by deportation, is a relic of barbarism. The bill proposes to add a new crime to the calendar. That would be bad enough if it were to apply in the future only, but this bill proposes to make it more or less retrospective. Such an outrageous proposal should not be countenanced for one moment. If we trace the history of trade unionism, we find that every step taken by the workers to better their conditions was denounced, in the early days, from one end of the state to another, but in these days, from one end of the Commonwealth to the other, and sometimes throughout the world. In every age every effort of the workers to obtain for themselves a greater share of the wealth that they produce has been denounced, as it will be denounced to the end of time by those who are opposed to "any reform which will in any way benefit the working members of the community. A few years ago an effort to curtail the hours of labour was made in New South Wales. At that time we were told that great evils would result; but the hours were shortened, and nothing happened. Later, when efforts were made to close shops, post offices, hotels, and other places of business, at a reasonable hour in the evening, we were told that if these places were closed as proposed the country would be ruined. But they "were closed, and everyone is better for the change. Whether we consider the maternity allowance, old-age pensions, or any other reform, we know that the cry that they would sap the moral fibre of the community was raised in every instance; but nothing of the kind has happened. Much has been said about job control. The- union of which I am a member adopted the policy of job control for a number of years. It was the regularly established custom. Because of the adoption of that policy,, conditions were, to some extent, bettered; men obtained better wages, and secured a reduction in. the. number of working, hours. Later, however, a better policy was introduced by the Labour party - that of arbitration and conciliation. In most disputes, arbitration is probably the best means of effecting a settlement, but not always. No reform which has been secured by any organized body of workers has been obtained without sacrifice. Even the benefits of the arbitration court cannot be obtained without the expenditure .of more money than many people would believe is the case. If a return  could  be furnished showing the sums of money paid annually to members of the legal fraternity for conducting cases before the court, it would be a revelation to most people. And be it remembered that that money must be found by the men who do the work of this country: I believe that this hill is deliberately and maliciously directed against the officers of the various trade unions in this country in order to cause them to desist from further efforts to secure for the workers a greater share of the wealth that they produce. Honorable senators who were once members of our party, and are now associated with our opponents would glory in an opportunity to return to the fold. 
The members cf this party have no desire to be directly or indirectly associated with  Senator Lynch. 
Order! The honorable senator's remarks are of a personal character, and have nothing whatever to do with the bill. 
The honorable senator was alone responsible for th;interjection. 
Order!  That  has nothing to do with the bill. I have already warned the honorable senator, and I shall not do so again. 
Order! The honorable senator knows that the matter to which he is referring has nothing to do with the bill. 
I have already done so. 
Motion (by SenatorWilson) proposed - 
That the Senate do now divide. 
-It is the practice, as the honorable senator knows, to call on speakers alternately from the Government and Opposition benches. 
It was not my intention to have spoken on this and some of the subsequent clauses, but for the action taken by the Minister  (Senator Wilson)- 
The right honorable gentleman is evidently nervy and somewhat in a hurry. I was not reflecting upon a vote of the Senate. Action has been taken which invites honorable senators to discuss every clause of the bill. The committee should alter the short title to read, " The Immigration Gag Act 1925." I understand that an order has been issued from head-quarters that we must make post-haste, and that we are to observe a time-table. I believe that clause 1 has to be passed before 7 o'clock this morning. I could suggest a number of titles that would better fit the bill than that which has been chosen. One is " The Bludgeon Act," because it appears to me that the Government intends to stifle discussion and bludgeon tbe measure through at all hazards. 
.  - The arrangements of the Government for the passage of this measure will prevent honorable senators from fully and freely discussing the whole of its provisions. The title would lead one to believe that the bill applies solely to persons who desire to come to Australia. Because of the inappropriateness of the title we should spend some time in an effort to improve it. Those who are less familiar than I am with provisions that are embodied in acts of Parliament might  be misled by the title of this bill. It is proposed that the act shall deal not only with immigrants, but also with other persons who are Australians by adoption. For how many years must a man live in Australia before he is entitled to be called an Australian ? 
(Senator Newland). - The honorable senator is distinctly out of order. He must confine himself to the clause, and give reasons - if he has any - for an alteration of the title. 
Motion (by  Senator Pearce)  proposed - 
That the Committee do now divide. 
Ayes ... ... .. 16 
Noes ... ... ... 9 
Majority ... ... 7 

<graphic href="110332192507165_35_6_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="110332192507165_35_6_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the affirmative. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 2 to 5 agreed to. 
Clause 6 (Deportation of certain persons) . 
As an Australian, a proposal  zo  deport certain persons is most distasteful to me. I would never be a party to deport any one from Australia unless it were a criminal who had come from another country, and about whom the Government had received certain advice. I think for our own protection we should pass such a person back to his own country. The British Empire was not founded on the deportation of certain persons. 
May I intervene? The honorable senator is discussing the clause under a misapprehension. The clause simply proposes to omit subsection 5 of section 8a of the principal act, which reads as follows: - 
Any person for whose deportation the Minister has made an order in pursuance of this section shall be deported accordingly, and pending such deportation will be kept in such custody as the Minister directs. 
In clause 8 this provision is proposed to be reinserted in an amended form after section 8b of the principal act, and it will be a new section. Therefore the honorable senator can discuss its provisions on clause 8. 
Honorable senators should know exactly what is to be done before they agree to the deletion of one provision of the act and inferentially agree to reinsert it in an amended form in another portion of the measure. With a view to seeing whether we are justified in agreeing to a deletion of the subsection quoted by  Senator Pearce,  I think I ought to be allowed to read the section of the principal act affected. 
The honorable senator will not be in order in doing so. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 7 (Deportation upon proclamation of industrial disturbance). 
This clause contains a wicked provision that violates a fundamental principle of British justice. If it is carried in its present form a person born outside Australia and associated with a trade union, if concerned in a strike, may be deemed guilty of an offence more serious than larceny, robbery under arms, burglary, false pretences, manslaughter, or murder. 
Prior to the introduction of this bill, the belief was held by all classes in the community that all men were equal in the eyes of the law. The passage of this bill will shatter that belief. 
Civil and criminal courts are available for the hearing of charges against persons who have committed breaches of the civil and criminal laws. The established institutions are competent to deal with all offences of the nature I have indicated, but according to this Government they are not to be entrusted with matters arising out of industrial disputes. The members of another place include a father and son, both of whom belong to the same political party. The father was born in the old country, the son was born in Australia, and both have been associated with trade unionism in this country. I refer, of course, to the honorable member for South Sydney  (Mr. E. Biley),  and the honorable member for Cook  (Mr. C. Riley).  If the honorable member for South Sydney engaged in an industrial dispute after the passage of this bill, he would not be given the justice accorded to even the worst criminal in Australia. He would not be tried before a judge and jury. He would have to appear before a board appointed not by the people but by the Government, and the board would be chosen from that section of the community which supports the Government. On the. order of such a board he could be deported. On the other hand, his son if guilty of the same offence under this measure could not be deported since he is Australian-born. 
Never in the history of this country has any man been deported because of his association with trade unionism or for any offence arising out of industrial disputes. 
We are to understand from the remark by  Senator Greene,  which is apparently endorsed by the Leader of the Senate, that men charged with an. offence under this clause are considered criminals before they come before the board. 
Then, in the opinion of the Minister, they will be regarded as undesirables, because . they are associated with unions. 
If they are. not criminals or undesirables, what is their offence. 
Exactly ; and if certain honorable senators who intend to vote for this clause, say that it is not directed at trado unionism, I tell them that they have not read it. A . certain dispute is in progress and the bill is aimed at certain persons. Suppose that a ship were declared " black," and the waterside workers considered it desirable to convene a meeting. Suppose, also, that there was a discussion as to whether or not its members should unload the cargo if it were declared . " black." Could not this provision be made to apply to these men, and, indeed,, not only to those engaged on the waterfront, but also to men in other avenues of employment? The exPrime Minister  (Mr. Hughes)  was for a long time associated with trade unions, and took part in many industrial: disputes. He was born outside Australia. If he were still a member of the Labour party, and filling the same responsible position on the waterfront that he occupied a few years ago, he could, under this bill, be deported without a trial by jury. 
I did not wish to intervene in this debate, but I think it necessary  to  place on record at least one protest against the way in which  Senator Findley  has attempted to misrepresent the position in connexion with this clause. He. commenced by saying that under this clause it would be possible to deport gentlemen who had engaged in industrial disputes-, but that murderers and persona convicted of theft could not be deported. He then enumerated a long list of crimes. The honorable senator himself has signed orders for the deportation of men who have committed crimes, and he knows it. 
The honorable senator has signed deportation orders in the case of men who did those things. 
Throughout his short speech we had the same kind of misrepresentation. The honorable senator knows that cases such as those which he has submitted are not the kind which it is contemplated shall be dealt with under this clause. He would hail with joy any such action on the part of the Government, because it would furnish him with a splendid weapon with which to attack it. The honorable senator knows that no government would use the provisions of this bill unless and until it had behind it the public opinion of Australia. That is the real safeguard behind this measure. Were a Labour Ministry to use the provisions of this legislation to deport some one of the class to which he has referred, we,as members of the Opposition, would hail such action with joy, because, we, in our turn, would have, a good weapon with which to attack the Government. Every one knows, the class of person against whom this legislation is directed, and that the men in that class do not stand behind the industrial unions of Australia. 
In practice, the provisions of this clause would not be. directed against the. men who. stand behind the great, industrial movement of Australia. 
For many years I have held the view that trade unionismis one of the greatest forces for good in the world. The men against whom this bill is directed are no friends of trade unionism. The honorable senator knows that they are its worst enemies. They are endeavouring for their own sinister purpose to use the trade union movement which has fought so gallantly, and won. so gloriously, the great struggle of the labouring men of the world. Instead of being aimed against trade unionism, this bill, and particularly this clause, is directed towards maintaining it. 
I assure honorable senators that I would not intentionally be guilty of misrepresentation. What I said a few moments ago Will bear repetition. I said that for engaging in an industrial dispute a man was deemed under this bill to be worse than one who had committed a major offence against the laws of the country, in that he was liable to deportation without trial by a jury, whereas the ordinary criminal had access to the courts of the land and was tried before a jury of his peers.  Senator Greene  then rose to say, in effect, that I had signed papers for the deportation of men who had not first been tried before a jury. 
That is what the honorable senator wished to convey. 
Not for an industrial offence. What connexion has any action that I took when Acting Minister for Home Affairs with this clause in the bill? 
I shall stand by whatever action I" took when Acting Minister for Home Affairs. Everything; that L did was done in accordance with the law. I never evaded my responsibility, nor did I, while acting ih that, capacity,, ask the Government to introduce; special legislation, to deal with any matter.. The laws that I administered were already on the statute-book when I assumed! office.. Some of them I had assisted to place there. I endeavoured, to the best of my ability, to administer those laws faithfully. Had I not done so, I should not have been doing my duty. But I shall not be a party to the passing of a clause such as this, which makes a new law for Australia unlike any law in any part of the British Empire. 
One of the arguments advanced by the Minister in favour of the provisions with which we are dealing, was that certain men in the community held communistic views. Is that to be a new crime in Australia  1  I point out to the right honorable gentleman that, in the mother of parliaments, there are communists, who were elected by the people of Great Britain. There are thousands of communists in Great Britain. There are also communists in the French Chamber of Deputies. Only recently I read of a meeting in France, which was preceded by a procession of 20,000 communists, accompanied by bands. In the German Reichstag, as in almost every parliament in the world, there are communists. 
One reason given by the Minister for the introduction of this bill was that there were men in Australia who were acting inimically to the best interests of Australia. 
I enter my protest, with all the vigour of which I am capable, against this clause becoming law. I never thought that in this Australian Parliament a Government, which is said to be composed of men born in Australia, would introduce a bill containing provisions that are both anti-A.ustra.lian and anti-British. We have to go back nearly 100 years to find a similar measure. This bill can, therefore, with reason be described as antediluvian. That it is a direct attack on organized labour is evident. If the men against whom it is directed were not filling responsible positions in trade unions, this measure would not have been introduced into this Parliament. It is awful to contempate that any man in Australia is to be denied that justice which is not denied him in any other part of the British Empire. 
Common justice demands that every man in Australia shall be treated in the same way in respect of the same offence, but we are, in effect, providing that Australians by adoption who have probably lived in Australia longer than many honorable senators supporting the passage of this bill shall be deported for engaging in an industrial dispute, whereas those born in Australia cannot be so dealt with. The measure does not apply to only two or three persons whom the Government may consider guilty of an offence. These persons have not committed any crime. If they have broken our laws they should be given a proper trial. On many ocoasions I have heard  Senator Lynch  speak of fair play. If the honorable senator were on this side of the chamber would he consider it fair play to single out for special treatment and punishment unionists associated with industrial disputes? 
That . does not justify the honorable senator opposing trial by jury, or the Government adopting a course which is repugnant to civilized people. We boast of our freedom and liberty. 
I believe I can gauge the pulse of the Australian people as well as  Senator Lynch,  and I am satisfied that they will not stand for any kind of legislation that savors of injustice and tyranny. Certain honorable senators opposite, who were once closely associated with industrialism, did not once rigidly observe what they now term law and order. We can recall with shame what happened to the Dorchester weavers who were working for 9s. a week when others were receiving 10s. When they made representations to their employers for a similar wage, instead of receiving an increase their rate was reduced to 8s., and then to 6s. per week. They decided to form an organization, and pledge themselves to be loyal to one another, and not to work with any one who violated the rules of the society they had established. For doing this, they were brought before a biased judge and a pliant jury and sentenced to seven years imprisonment. They were transported or deported, not to Botany Bay, but to Tasmania. 
I do not advocate trials before biased judges and pliant juries. Such was the indignation aroused that these unfortunate men were liberated after three years. "When they returned to their native village public subscriptions were raised with which farms were purchased for them. Even after 80 years had passed they were not forgotten, and a monument was erected to their memory for the pioneering work they performed in the interests of trade unionism. It was said by the presiding judge that the sentence imposed on these unfortunate men would be an example to others not to follow in their footsteps. The prosecution eventually failed, as will this legislation. 
It was my intention  'to  speak on the second reading of this measure, but owing to the motion submitted by the Minister for Markets and Migration  (Senator Wilson)  I was deprived of the opportunity. I am strongly opposed to the deportation of any person from this country merely because he has been associated with an industrial dispute. Many of us have pioneered movements not  only  in the industrial, but also in the political world, and while it is the duty of the Government to protect the community from the criminal element in our midst, it has not the right to deport persons who have once been legally admitted. I shall never be a party to assist to deport any person because of his association with an industrial dispute. Nearly every honorable senator has been engaged in industry in this country, and knows the conditions under which disputes arise. Is it our  intention to disgrace and degrade Australian manhood by placing a measure such as this on our statute-book ? Surely it is beneath our dignity. An Australianborn citizen committing burglary, or murder, could not be deported, Whereas other persons charged with offences not nearly so serious are to be deprived  of  their Australian citizenship. Persons to whom this measure is directed are working only in the interests of their fellow men and under their direction, and should not be treated in this drastic manner. I, as an Australian citizen, have had to answer for disobeying the  law  of the land in respect of industrialism, and have been threatened with imprisonment by my own countrymen, but my deportation was never suggested. I am not an advocate of people coming to Australia unless they speak our own language and are accustomed to our ways, but when once we have admitted persons from other countries and they are following their occupations we should allow them to remain. Are they to be returned to a country which they were glad to leave in order to participate in the freedom which we enjoy? The people of those countries to which they are deported may say, " They have been in Australia long enough; send them back there again." I do not stand for the deportation of anybody. We should act like men, not like old women. The Arbitration Act provides for a penalty of ?1,000 for an industrial offence. I, as secretary of an organization, and my  president,  who is now a member of another place, had the experience of being haled before the court. We arp both reputable citizens and do not owe a penny to anybody. Australia 'is our birthplace. Should we be 'deported? Those who commit breaches of the law should be punished in Australia according to its laws. It would be a slur upon our manhood to shelve our responsibility for taking action against those who defy our laws. I think that the Government should make provision to prevent the entry into Australia of any one who is undesirable, otherwise ' the greatest criminal in the world may come here. 
It deals especially with industrialists. 
I am acquainted with the industrial history of Australia, practically from the time of my birth, and I cannot remember an occasion when, notwithstanding all -the trials and tribulations through which we have passed,  anybody . in the industrial world was guilty of an action that would warrant his deportation from Australia. 
SenatorBARNES.- The honorable senator may say so. The Arbitration Act compels my union to observe its provisions. 
I once read a book- 
The honorable senator might go through a book, but he would not be capable of assimilating its contents. Among other books thatI have read is  For the Term of His Natural Life.  I object to a man like  Senator Barnes  being sent away from Australia for the term of his natural life because he threatens the peace. Under this act it will not be necessary to break the peace.; if it is merely threatened the deportation provisions can be put in operation. The Australian Workers Union would see to it that  Senator Barnes  was not turned out of this country without some trouble being experienced by the authorities. 
 Senator Hays  comes from Tasmania. In the olden days many convicts were sent there. For what reason ? Some of the best blood in Tasmania to-day has come down from those convicts. Some ofthe best blood on the mainland has 'descended from convicts who were convicted under legislation as stupid as this, conceived and put into operation by men with little minds. This is the action of a little-minded Government. It thinks that an opportunity will thus : be afforded to get rid of a man who plays a big part in the ' industrial world. How would  Senator Lynch  like to appear before a board and have his liberty taken from him ? I have listened to him talking about liberty. If he could hear some of his own countrymen's views on liberty he would not want to go before a board. The Labour party stands for a. fair trial for everybody. I should advocate a fair trial, even for  Senator Payne, Senator Duncan,  or  Senator Reid;  but I am strongly of the opinion that if any of them did wrong he should be tried before a jury of his peers. 
Is he infallible? We who are members of the Labour party do hot claim to be infallible. Even  Senator Thompson  may do wrong. If he says that he is infallible I reply that Ido not know of any right thing that he has done. Deportation is a most serious thing. I am sorry that the Government has seen fit to introduce this measure. Many honorable senators opposite have said that it is not going to be used. If that is so, why is it necessary to introduce it? Not one individual who should be deported has been nominated. If there is one such, let the Government nominate him. Manv friends of the Government would like to see some of the big industrial leaders sent out of Australia. They would do anything to get rid of them. I remind them that when one soldier falls in the industrial lines, there is generally another soldier to take his place. 
As  Senator Hays  says, the same thing applies in the political world. Although the Labour party has lost some of its members to the other side, within the next three or four years not one of those men will be here, and they know it. 
It is a dangerous power that is proposed to be given to a Minister. He may order the deportation of a person against whom he has some grudge. But what I want to know is where these people are to be sent. Thank goodness I cannot be deported. I am a native horn. 
That will not be done, because the present 'Government will soon be out of office. No party can do things unless it is in power. The Nationalist party, believing that it is likely to lose power, is anxious to place all its 'proposed legislation on the statutebook during the . remaining monthsin which it will have control. 
We have been emphatically assured that this provision is not intended to apply to officers of trade unions, and, if that is so, the Minister is in duty bound to state clearly what people it is intended to apply to. I cannot imagine any other purpose for it than to deport officers of trade unions. When a union decides to cease operations, instructions are generally issued by some officer of the organization, and I should imagine that this provision is meant to apply to such an officer. It is unthinkable that any honorable senator of the Opposition would permit such a provision to be agreed to without exhausting all the forms of the Senate in order to show his opposition to it. It sets up a crime hitherto unknown in the Commonwealth. Despite a good deal of restrictive legislation objectionable in many respects, we have not so far disgraced ourselves by actions which disgraced the British Government years ago, when it deported some of the residents of Great Britain to Australia and elsewhere. The idea of deporting people is not confined to Great Britain. For a long number of years France has punished some of her citizens who fought strenuously for the rights of the French people by deporting them to New Caledonia. It is a severe form of punishment to members of a race who are so fond of their own country as the French are. This- provision must apply to representatives of industrial unions which, when they decide to cease operations, take some action that may tend to obstruct the transport of goods or the conveyance of passengers. It is creating a new crime or a new form of punishment so far as Australia is concerned. In any case, many a person who may now weigh 16 stone came to Australia weighing not more than 8 stone. Such a person would be physically half foreign and 'half Australian. Which half of him would the Government propose to deport? The clause is most discreditable to the Government. It is. said that it is aimed at communists. Possibly land value taxer.s and protectionists are also to be targets. Apparently they are all equally objectionable, and when the deporting mania has developed one hardly knows who will be sent out of the coun try. The Government has entirely  misgauged  public opinion, and as soon as it deports one officer of a trade union it will raise a storm such as has never before been experienced. This should be called the deportation bill. The proposal to apply it to British-born citizens will have a far-reaching effect. I suppose that if federation had not been accomplished we should have seen Tasmanians deported from Victoria to their own state. During the last twelve months the Government has signed deportation orders for about SO persons who were prohibited immigrants. But .the present proposal deals with an entirely different offence. 
 Senator Greene  stated that when  Senator Findley  was a Minister he signed orders for the deportation of certain persons. He tried to connect that act with the clause under discussion, and when  Senator Findley  was prepared to take all the responsibility for any ministerial act of his  Senator Pearce  interjected that the deportations were ordered for an industrial offence.  Senator Findley  carried out the law, but I cannot allow  Senator Greene's  statement to go unchallenged, imputing as it does that  Senator Findley  signed deportation orders for offences similar to those contemplated by this clause. By the wildest stretch of imagination it cannot be said that there is any connexion . between any order  Senator Findley  made and these offencesConnected with the Eureka stockade incident at Ballarat was a man named Peter Lalor, who was not born in Australia. He was the leader of that noted industrial disturbance, the cause of which was oppression. It was contrary to law and order, and if such legislation as this .had been on the statute-book at that time, Lalor, whose name, is revered throughout Australia, could have been deported. The same remark applies to Wentworth, who is recognized as one of the greatest of Australians, although he was not horn in the country. In 1526-7 Wentworth fought strenuously against .the Government of the day. Governor Darling in one of his dispatches to England, said that he was a vulgar, ill-bred fellow, who took every opportunity of insulting the government, and described his actions as diabolical and abominable. 
No, but honorable senators opposite wish to deport men who are not Australians by birth.  Senator Lynch  comes from a country from which many rebels have sprung, and in his younger days, under legislation such as this, he would have been not only deported, but hanged, drawn, and quartered. No such legislation has ever previously been attempted. 
Motion (by  Senator Pearce)  proposed - 
That the committee do now divide. 
In view of the progress made by the committee during the last hour, I move - 
That the  chairman  report progress, and ask leave to sit again. 
 I rule that the motion is in order. 
If the honorable senator disputes my ruling, he must do so at once, and in writing. 
The Minister who moved the motion had himself crossed the floor; he spoke from his place. In my opinion honorable senators had the opportunity to take their  places 
I also point out to the committee that the motion cannot be debated, but must be put at once. 
The TEMPORARY CHAIRMAN.That is not a point of order. 

 In the Senate: 

The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. T. Givens)  . - In moving " That the committee do now divide" did the Minister for Home and Territories  (Senator Pearce')  interrupt any honorable senator who was speaking ? 
The TEMPORARY CHAIRMAN.No. 
I have to rule- 
It is for the Chair to decide whether discussion shall or shall not be allowed. If I required the assistance of honorable senators in coming to a decision I should ask for it, but the position is so clear that I shall not need it. I have no doubt, on the information contained iii the report of the Temporary  Chairman  df Committees, that his ruling was correct. I therefore uphold it. 
I have already given my ruling. 
Order! The honorable senator must not reflect upon a decision of the Chair. There is a legitimate way in which to challenge a ruling of the Chair. 
The honorable senator must do so in writing. 
I have received from  Senator Grant  the following notice of dissent: - 
I disagree with your ruling, supporting that of the Temporary Chairman of Committees, on the ground that you came to your decision without hearing the case for the other side. 
That is not a correct reason to submit, because the Standing Orders leave it to my discretion to decide whether or not such a course is necessary. If the honorable senator will alter his notice of dissent, and base his objection to my decision on the general ground that it is not in accordance with the Standing Orders, I will accept it. For the information of honorable senators I may explain that the Senate knows nothing of what takes place in committee, beyond that, which is reported by the  Chairman,  and no allusion to any debate in committee' can take place in the Senate. That is the practice of the House of Commons on which our Standing Orders are based. 
Motion (by  Senator Grant)  proposed - 
That the ruling of the  President  supporting that of the Temporary  Chairman  of Committees be dissented from, on the ground that it is not in accordance with the Standing Prders. 
Motion (by  Senator Pearce)  proposed - 
That the question requires immediate deter mination. 
About three-fifths of the bill deals with deportations and the balance with immigration matters. I propose to amend the title to read " An act to amend the Deportation Act." 
The point raised by  Senator Pearce  is quite good. There is no Deportation Act, and the order of leave is for a bill for an act to amend the Immigration Act. No amendment having been made to necessitate an alteration to the title, my ruling is that it is unnecessary, and, indeed, impossible to amend it. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment. 
Motion (by  Senator Pearce)  proposed - 
That the report he adopted. 
I wish to bring under the notice of the Senate the case of a public servant in Western Australia who, after a service of many years, was recently dismissed summarily. I have never previously lent myself to an effort to make the Parliament of the Commonwealth a court of appeal in matters like this, but this gentleman has appealed to the authorities, and has not, in my opinion, received that satisfaction to which . he is entitled. The gentleman to whom I refer is  Mr. Page,  for 27 years in the Public Service and for most of that time in the employ of the Commonwealth as paymaster in the Defence Department. He was dismissed rather summarily at a time when, according to his own story, there were temporary officers employed in the department. From a reputable firm of lawyers he has obtained an opinion to the effect that he was wrongly dismissed, and that he has a substantial case for damages against the Commonwealth Government. I mention this case, with a view to drawing the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Defence to it, in the hope that something will be done to see that this officer receives fair treatment. 
I shall have the matter referred to by the honorable senator investigated, and will let him know the position. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 7.12 a.m. (Friday) 
It is with very much regret that I have to announce the death of  Senator Edward  John Russell, which occurred on the 18th July last. A state funeral was accorded the remains of the late honorable senator, and, on behalf of the Senate, I conveyed an expression of sympathy to  Mrs. Russell  and her family, pending the more formal resolution of the Senate. I have also to inform the Senate that, having received the formal certificate of the death of  Senator Russell,  in accordance with the provisions of section 21 of the Constitution, I informed the Governor of the State of Victoria that a vacancy had occurred in the representation of that state in the Senate. 
." - In view of' the announcement which you,  Mr. President,  have just made  to  the Senate, I move - 
That the Senate expresses its sincere regret at the death of  Senator Edward  John Russell, places upon record its sincere appreciation of his long and meritorious public service, and extends its profound sympathy to his widow and family in their sad bereavement. 
The late  Senator Russell  was born at Warrnambool, Victoria, in 1879, was first elected to the Senate for Victoria in 1906, and remained a senator until his death. He was Temporary  Chairman  of Committees in 1913, and a member of the Select Committee on General Elections in the same year. He was an Assistant Minister from September, 1914, to November, 1916; Honorary Minister from February, 1917, to January, 1918; and Vice-President of the Executive Council from March, 1918, to December, 1921. He was also Acting Minister for Defence from 24th January, 1919, to 29th October, 1919, during my absence in America. Among other public services, he represented the Commonwealth Government on the Australian 
Wheat Board, of which he became chairman, and was  vice-president  of the Commonwealth Board of Trade from April, 1918, to December, 1921. He died on the 18th July last. The late honorable senator held office in various ministries for seven years and 82 days. When it is remembered that a considerable portion of the late honorable gentleman's service as a Minister was during the period of the war, and the strenuous years that followed immediately afterwards,' when the various Governments were grappling with the post-war problems of reconstruction, those who were associated with him will realize that the very onerous nature of the public duties which he then performed, and the heavy work that was thrown on his shoulders, undoubtedly hastened his end. The late honorable senator was most conscientious, and, in the discharge of the duties of his office, was guided always by a close regard for the highest standards of public service. At the time of his death  he  was still a comparatively young man. For very many years he was not only well known personally to most of UG, but was also a familiar figure in the public life of Australia. His death is undoubtedly "a great loss to the Commonwealth. Men of his attainments and energy, and with his conscientious view of public duty, are scarce, and that he should have been called away at such an early age is a matter for profound regret. He was a lovable man with many fine qualities, and we deeply feel our loss. The greatest loss, however,  is  that sustained by his widow and family.  Senator Russell  left a family of five, whose ages range from seventeen to five and a half years. Like most public men who devote themselves to the affairs of their country, he was not able to make that provision for his wife and family that people in ordinary walks of life, as a rule, are able to make. That is one of the penalties which the wives and families of public men have to pay for the services which their husbands and fathers render to their country. I am sure honorable senators will join with me in passing this motion, expressing the sympathy of the Senate with the widow and family of the deceased gentleman. 
It is with feelings of sadness that 1 rise to second the motion moved by the right honorable the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce).  I met  Senator Russell  for the first time, many years ago, in Fremantle. He was then in his early twenties, and he and I were elected to this chamber on the same day, namely, the 12th December, 1906. From that time until his death, at an age when most men are considered to be in the very noontide of vigor, our relations, personally, socially and politically, were of the best. I agree with the mover of the motion that the onerous duties that fell upon the shoulders of the late  Senator Russell  during the years when he was a Minister undoubtedly hastened his demise. As one who knew him intimately, I can say that he was a man of lovable disposition - a lovable character - and I am. voicing the sentiments of honorable senators on this side of the chamber in declaring that by his death Australia has lost a man whom it could ill spare. I knew him, also, as a loving husband and affectionate father. To his widow and children we, on this side, offer our sincere sympathy in their great loss. 
It is rather remarkable that, during the life of this Parliament, the Grim Reaper has called away six members of this chamber - three,  Mr. President,  from the ranks of honorable senators on your right,  Senator E.  D. Millen,  Senator Bakhap,  and  Senator Russell,  and three from the ranks of those on your left -  Senator Barker, Senator McDougall,  and  Senator Power.  Their deaths, while in the service of their country, prove conclusively that the work of a member of Parliament, in the sincere and honest discharge of his public duties, is exceedingly arduous, and exacts a heavy toll. I join with honorable senators generally in expressing sincere sorrow at the death of  Senator Russell,  and in tendering heartfelt sympathy to his widow and family. 
.- I join with the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  in their expressions of regret at the death of  Senator Edward  John Russell, and I wish to associate myself with their expressions of sympathy for the members of his family. Many years ago the late  Senator Russell  and I were members of a society in this State, and we each had a place in the debating teams chosen from its different branches. At that time the late honorable senator was looked upon by us as the boy orator of Victoria. Later he and I were thrown together as members of the same political party, and I took an enthusiastic and active part in his firstelection campaign, when he contested the Prahran seat in the Legislative Assembly against  Mr. Donald  Mackinnon. On that occasion, however, he was unsuccessful. I continued to follow his industrial and political career, and of no man was I prouder. I was closely associated with him and his family, and always entertained for , him the highest regard. The whirligig of time brought about its changes, and although, politically, we have differed in later years, my personal regard for the late honorable senator remained unaltered to the end. I endorse the sentiments that have been expressed by  Senator Pearce  and  Senator Needham,  and trust that Parliament will not overlook the services which the late honorable senator rendered to his country. 
Before submitting the motion, I should like to declare, on my own behalf as well as on behalf of the Senate generally, the great sorrow that we feel at the untimely death of the late  Senator Russell.  Throughout his membership of the Senate  - and for most of the time he occupied a very prominent and conspicuous position in it - I was closely associated with him, and always regarded him as a valued and loyal colleague, as well as a most genial and lovable companion. As the Leader of the Senate has stated, he was exceedingly conscientious in the discharge of his duties. I had frequent opportunities of observing the manner in which, in his Ministerial capacity, he handled the large number of bills that, especially towards the end of each session, it was his duty to pilot through the Senate. I know that, even after lengthy sittings, he was obliged to devote many hours to the study of those measures, and with such a knowledge, one could come to no other conclusion than that the great volume of work which he had to undertake, and his extreme devotion to duty, materially hastened his untimely end. I join with  Senator Hannan  in expressing the hope that the Government and the Parliament will recognize the obligation of the Commonwealth to the late honorable senator's widow and family. It is within my knowledge that they have not been left as fully provided for as they would have been if  Senator Russell,  instead of devoting himself to the service of his country, had been content to throw all his energies into private enterprise. To us his death is a very great personal loss, but it will be most keenly felt by his widow and his family, some of whom, as the Leader of the Government in the Senate has said, are young and helpless. It is to them that our sympathy and condolence are due. I am sure that I speak for every honorable senator when I say that they have that sympathy to the fullest possible extent. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honorable senators standing in their places. 
ADJOURNMENT. 
As a mark of respect to the late honorable senator,I move - 
That  the  Senate do  now  adjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned lit 3.16 p.m. 
-Is the Leader of the Senate yet in a position to lay on the table of the Senate the report on forestry investigations in the Mandated Territory of New Guinea 'and Papua, which I asked for some time ago? 
I informed the honorable senator on the 16th July that the report was in the hands of the printer. I am glad to say that it is now available. I lay it upon the table, and move - 
That the paper be printed. 
Motion agreed to. 
I ask the Minister  representing the Treasurer if he noticed in the press a few days ago a statement that the Tasmanian Government was able to show a surplus at the end of the  last financial year, and, if so, will the Government consider the desirability of discontinuing the subsidizing of that state by the Commonwealth. 
The proposals of the' Government in regard to financial matters will be laid upon the table of the Senate at a later stage to-day. 
Has the Minister for Home and Territories yet ' received a reply to a question which I put to him a few weeks ago in  connexion with the furnishing of Commonwealth buildings at Canberra? 
On the 10th July,  Senator Needham  asked the following questions :  - 
Has any furniture been ordered or purchased that will be required at Canberra by the Commonwealth Government? 
If so, were tenders invited, and, if not, why? 
If any furniture has been ordered or purchased, from whom was it purchased, what has been purchased, and what was the price of such goods? 
Will the Minister assure the Senate that no furniture willbe purchased without tenders being called? 
The information was not available in Melbourne at the time, but particulars have now been furnished by the Federal Capital Commission. As they are somewhat lengthy, I ask leave to make a statement.  (Leave granted).  The reply is as follows: - 
The furniture purchased for Commonwealth requirements since the commission assumed control at Canberra, comprises chiefly articles required for the Commission officers and quarters, Telopea Park school extensions, the completion of the furnishing of Hotel Ainslie, the equipment of various workmen's camps, and a certain amount of stock. 
The necessities of the commission being urgent, tenders were not invited, and to save time quotations were invited from several firms, excepting in the case of carpets, which were selected. The furniture for Telopea Park school extensions were procured from the Education Department of New South Wales, which specializes in the provision of such articles. Orders for furniture for Hotel Ainslie were based upon previous contract prices, and the balance of deliveries made this year at the same institution were in execution of contracts mentioned, which were entered into prior to the end of 1924. Supplies of bedsteads, tables and chairs for use in camps were based on quotations, the tables being made locally at a satisfactory price by a contractor, and all blinds and certain other lines upon existing contracts. 
The furniture was purchased from various firms at the prices and for the purposes mentioned in the accompanying schedule - 
I am laying the schedule upon the table of the Senate - 
The commission's organization provides that- 
As a general rule, all supplies or work to be purchased the value of which exceeds in the total the sum of £1,000 will, except with the authority of the Commissioner, be made the subject of a contract as distinct from an order. The Chief Engineer will obtain the necessary authority, in writing, from the Commissioner in any case in which he recommends orders should be placed without a special contract document.. 
In placing orders for supplies, all concerned will bear in mind that the first necessity is to get the best possible deal for the commission; at the same time the trading public must be treated with absolute fairness and equality. To this end the following general rules are given as a guide in cases not covered by annual contracts, and any officer departing therefrom must have a definite and sufficient reason for so doing, which reason may at any time be the subject of criticism by the Commissioner - 
Except for small items the price of which are more or less " fixed," three quotations should be obtained by inquiry before any order is placed; provided that the officer purchasing may exercise reasonable discretion in not obtaining quotations for the same article within a month of a previous quotation; 
Written inquiry should be sent for all requirements exceeding £200 in gross value; 
Where supplies are required similar to previous orders, check prices should be obtained where the value of requirements exceeds £200; 
Where the value of requirements equals or exceeds £1,000, unless specially approved by the Commissioner, tenders must be called by advertisement. 
Past experience has shown that no good purpose is to be served by departing from the procedure laid down above. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that a late enemy subject of German nationality has been released from expropriation by the Government, and is to resume certain land and property on New Ireland mandated territory, which had been expropriated ? 
Has this land or portion of it, containing stations thereon, been leased for some time to returned soldiers, who have satisfactorily fulfilled their obligations to the Government the Expropriation Board, and the natives with whom they trade? 
Have these returned soldier settlers received notice, or are they to receive notice, of the termination of their occupancy of this land and the trading stations thereon, in order that the former German owner shall obtain posses? sion of same? 
If the answer to 3 is in the affirmative does the Government believe such action is in the best interests of the Territory and fair to the returned soldiers who are to withdraw from this property in consequence of the action referred to? 
The answers are as follow : - 
It is a fact that, by virtue of its release from expropriation, certain property in New Ireland has revested in its German owner, who is married to a woman of Australian birth. 
Certain trading stations, forming part of the property referred to, have been held on lease by ex-soldiers. 
Yes. 
As the trading stations pass from the Government's control in consequence of their release from expropriation, the leases held by ex-soldiers from the Expropriation Board must be terminated by the Board. It is not considered that the interests of the Territory will be jeopardized, or that ex-soldiers are being unfairly treated, by the return of these stations to their owner. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the Government, on a recent date, agreed to make a grant to Tasmania of approximately £24,000? 
If so, on what grounds? 
The answer is as follows :  - 1 and 2. No. 
I congratulate the Minister for Home and Territories (Senator Pearce) upon his faith in the future of the Northern Territory and the enthusiasm with which he contemplates its development, but, in my opinion, it will have to pass through all the stages which have marked the development of the other parts of the Commonwealth, before its empty spaces can be filled. I can see no serious difficulties which are peculiar to the Northern Territory. Practically all the conditions that have to be faced there have been faced and overcome elsewhere in Australia. All who are acquainted with the pastoral industry realize that the Northern Territory will have to meet similar disabilities to those which faced the early settlers in the outback areas of the various states. Improved transport facilities will be necessary, but in this respect the Territory appears to be in a better position than our colonies were in the early days. Then, only bullock and horse teams were available, but now the motor car is in general use, and has eliminated many of the difficulties which once faced pioneers in the back country. Northern Territory pioneers, therefore, are not handicapped nearly as severely as were our early colonists. It is true that the cost of production is higher to-day than formerly, but, in my opinion, the return received for produce, and the speed with which it can be transported, at least compensate for this. The Northern Territory to-day is entirely dependent upon the cattle industry, a; was Queensland years ago, and I believe that the industry can be developed there just as well as it was developed in Queensland. The Territory has the advantage of big mining possibilities such as has the north-west of Queensland. Very little has been done so far, to develop its mineral resources, and the Government would act wisely if it took steps to assist generously those who go prospecting in the interior. If a big mineral deposit were found in the Territory, it would soon be the centre of a considerable population. In the early, and what may be called the prosperous days of the Territory, South Australia spent a good deal of money on prospecting, but all the work then done has been rendered ineffective by the failure to follow it up. All those who have remained in the Territory, and have helped to develop it, deserve the most sympathetic consideration that the Government can give them. I trust that the Minister for Home and Territories  (Senator Pearce)  will not allow unwarranted adverse criticism in respect to large holdings, concessions to so called beef barons and pastoral companies, and so on, to deter him from acting justly by those who have, so far, done the pioneering work in the Territory. It is quite clear that large holdings, and the expenditure of a considerable amount of capital, are essential to the development of North Australia. Pioneers always have to undergo hardships, and, therefore, are worthy of special consideration. Water supplies are highly necessary to countries in the process of settlement, and it is specially important that water should be provided in the Northern Territory. It frequently happens that a mob of cattle leave an outback station in splendid condition, but after travelling through dry country, arrive at the market in a very poor state. I have had personal knowledge of that kind of thing frequently occurring in Queensland. It is essential, therefore, that well-watered stock routes should be provided, lt is also necessary that a certain amount of money should be spent on creek crossings. In the old bullock dray days men often took risks in crossing creeks. Sometimes streams were easily forded, but, at other times, after a flood came down, the bottom of the creek was entirely washed out, and bullock drivers who attempted to drive straight through as usual were often bogged. There is ample justification for spending a considerable sum of money in making solid bottoms to creeks that have to be crossed. Drivers would  very often risk crossing a creek if they knew there was a solid bottom to it. Encouragement should also be given to settlers who are willing to sink dams and bores. This is costly work in these days, but it is absolutely necessary. Settlers should be given every consideration in respect to improvements that they effect. 
The possibilities of agriculture in the Northern Territory have been discussed during this debate, and cotton has been mentioned as likely to prove a profitable crop. Unfortunately, cotton growing has not been as successful in Queensland as was anticipated. It appears that all new industries of this character have to pass through a developmental period. Experiments are necessary to ascertain which are the most suitable districts for cultivation. Failure has attended the efforts of some settlers in Queensland to grow cotton, for the return has been far short of what has been expected. At present it does not appear to me that cotton growing will be profitable in the Northern Territory, although undoubtedly experiments in its production should be encouraged. Added to the difficulty of actually producing the cotton are the disadvantages of long transportation and unreliable shipping facilities. It has been stated that fruit and vegetables have been grown with satisfactory results in various parts of the Territory. I know of some instances in which remarkably fine fruit and vegetables have been grown on stations in parts of outback Queensland, where water from bores was plentiful. I have sampled fruit grown under such conditions that was equal to that grown in other parts of Australia, but its production in the Northern Territory cannot be regarded as of any commercial value owing to the distance from the markets. We shall, therefore, have to develop the Northern Territory by providing facilities to enable the cattle and sheep raising industries to expand. We have been informed by those who know the Barkly Tablelands that, as the rainfall in that locality is always reliable, droughts there are unknown, so that in that respect it is in. a more fortunate position than almost any other part of Australia.' If the sheep and cattle industries are encouraged in the Barkly Tablelands, and railways constructed to connect with the existing New South Wales and Queensland systems, the future of the Northern Territory, particularly the eastern portion, should be very promising. If that were done, agistment would be available on the Barkly Tablelands during periods of drought in Queensland and New South Wales, and the money thus saved in consequence of the preservation of live-stock would in a few years compensate to some extent for the cost of the. railways. At present pastoralists in the Northern Territory are almost entirely dependent upon the operations of Vestey Brothers, whose works, however, are confined to. only one portion of the Territory. Cattle to be treated at the meat works at Darwin have to traverse long distances over poor country, and, until railway communication is extended further inland, heavy losses must occur when ample supplies of feed and water are not available. The pastoralists in the Northern Territory have at present only one outlet for their stock, but if a connexion were made with the Queensland railway system they would not be confined to the meat works at Darwin, which are rather out of the way. From a railway construction point of view, the Barkly Tablelands resemble the western district of Queensland. There are no engineering difficulties of any consequence, and the sleepers could, in many places, be laid on the ground and the track ballasted later as the revenue from the line grew. A good deal has been said concerning the labour troubles at Darwin, and the attitude adopted by the employees of Vestey Brothers' meat works. I had the privilege of visiting Darwin with the Public Works Committee, and heard a good deal of interesting evidence given on oath. From statements made on that occasion we could come only to one conclusion - that some of the persons in charge of those works actually encouraged the men in every conceivable way to hold them up. The men received all kinds of concessions until it became almost impossible for the undertaking to be a paying proposition. If those in control of Vestey Brothers' operations had taken a firm stand when the men began to ask for more than a fair thing, quite one-half of the trouble which afterwards occurred could have been obviated. As a huge sum of money has been invested in the Darwin meat works, it is a pity that such a large and important undertaking should be standing idle. If Vestey Brothers are anxious to continue operations after certain improvements have been made, every assistance should be given them to enable the works to remain open and labour to be continuously employed. It is of very little use to the men to have employment for two or three months, and then to remain practically idle for the remainder of the year. The Government propose that a portion of Northern Queensland shall be brought under the control of the proposed Commission, but I am not at all hopeful of that being agreed to by the State Government. For a number of years the settlers in Northern Queensland have been demanding separation from the southern portion, aud there is no doubt that some day, when the population increases, and the north becomes more settled, Queensland will be subdivided into three states. At present that cannot be done owing to the sparseness of the population. Those who have assisted in developing the northern portion of the state wish it to remain under the control of the Queensland authorities, and do not desire to be' linked up with the Northern Territory. They wish to carry on their own work in their own way. In these circumstances, I do not think the Queensland Government would dare to do what is proposed without the consent of the people in the north, who have overcome their own troubles to a certain point, and have surmounted many of the difficulties' which face the Northern Territory to-day. The question of populating the Northern Territory is a rather ticklish one. My view of the matter is that, if we persist with the cattle industry, the present population of Australia is sufficiently great to meet labour requirements there. The cattle-owner needs very few hands. The sheep-breeder also can carry on his station with half-a-dozen or eight men, except during shearing operations, which last  for  only a month. or six weeks in each year. It would be altogether a different matter, however, to populate the Northern Territory if agriculture were largely followed. 1 am not particularly acquainted with the agricultural possibilities of the Northern Territory, but I am well aware of the difficulty of closely settling portions of Queensland, on account of the long distances that have to be traversed to get the products to market. A good deal has been said regarding the influx of Italians. I am not an advocate of Italian immigration, but, during a visit to North Queensland at the beginning of this year, I endeavoured to learn the impressions of the people there regarding the matter. I witnessed the arrival of several boat-loads of Italians, and from their physique and general appearance I formed the opinion that they- were a credit to their country. I moved about amongst those whose work brought them into contact with Italians, and, apart from the feeling that this immigration is making more difficult the fight of the Britisher for bread and butter, I did not meet cue who had a bad word to say of them. They have shown themselves to be good citizens. They do not hang about the hotels. It is a very rare thing to find one of them drunk. They do not give any trouble to the police. At the present time, however, the sugar industry has a sufficient amount of labour, and there is not likely to be a shortage for a considerable time. -. Therefore, it might be wise to divert some of these immigrants to other parts. The last census shows that, prior to twelve months ago, there were fewer Italians in Queensland than there were in any other state in the Commonwealth. During the last twelve months, however, they have been arriving in Queensland in much larger numbers. That has been due to the fact that the sugar industry offers such very bright prospects. The majority of those who have gone to Queensland were nominated by their countrymen, by whom work was found for them on arrival. I do not desire the establishment of colonies of foreigners, but rather that every man who comes to Australia should become assimilated. It must be remembered that immigrants almost inevitably will gravitate to the more closely-settled districts, which offer greater facilities for companionship and recreation. Although immigration makes the competition for work keener, the awards of the Arbitration Court prevent the possibility of a lowering of the wage standard. The suitability of the north for the settlement of white people has been contested by some persons, but those who have had experience of the conditions there have no doubt on the subject. Even to the third generation the race there displays greater vigour than was shown by their forefathers. There has not been the slightest deterioration. I should like to mention an experience of mine in Darwin recently. I made it my  business to visit the Chinese quarters of the town, and to see the conditions under which the Chinese were living. I found that the young Chinese, even to the third generation, were a much superior type, displaying better physique, greater intelligence, and a more alert appearance, generally, than their fathers. There is, I think, clear evidence that the Chinese ' race, at all events, improves in physique and general intelligence under favorable conditions in the Northern Territory. The whites are not sufficiently numerous to justify any definite statement of a similar nature. Now that Great Britain has decided to give Australia preference in her markets, we should be encouraged to go ahead with the construction of railways, the improvement of stock routes, and the provision of other facilities for the development of the Northern Territory. The railway . from Townsville out beyond Cloncurry has been an important factor. iri the settlement of that portion of north-western Queensland. Before its construction was under consideration, I was a member of the Queensland Parliament, and suggested that instead of the railway being built from Normanton it should follow a route best calculated to open up the country served by the Flinders watershed. That line, which now extends out beyond Cloncurry towards Camooweal and Birdsville, opened, up country as good as any to be found in Australia. Cattle stations have since given place to sheep runs, except in flooded portions of the country. I believe that an extension of the -railway in the Northern Territory to western Queensland, together with an improvement of stock routes, will enable us to get over our initial difficulties, and lead to the successful occupation of that portion of the Territory. We may also expect some results from mining if railway lines are constructed as proposed. It is practically certain that the present attempt would not have been made to develop the mineral resources of the Cloncurry district but for the railway line down the Flinders watershed. The establishment of a wireless broadcasting station in some portion of the. Northern Territory, lo link up with the wireless station recently established by the Queensland Government, would also have an important influence in settling the Territory, because the daily transmission of information important to settlers, such as weather and market reports, as well as musical and other entertainments, would make life in the outback country much more congenial. An extension of aviation services by extending the CharlesvilleCloncurry service to Birdsville and Darwin would also help. I am doubtful if administration by a commission will be as successful as the Minister anticipates, but I shall support the bill, and I hope that it will lead to- the successful development of the Northern Territory. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Graham)  adjourned to a later hour in the day. 
I lay upon the table of the Senate, by command, estimates of receipts and expenditure and estimates of expenditure for additions, new works, and buildings, &amp;c, for the year ending 30th June, 1926, and the budget-papers presented by the Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page)  on the occasion of opening the budget of 1925-6. I move - 
That the papers he printed. 
As honorable senators are aware, this motion gives me an opportunity to make a brief statement of the conditions of our finances, and the subsequent debate will furnish honorable senators with an opportunity to discuss financial and other matters. 
I wish to bring before honorable senators a few of the more important features revealed by the Estimates and budget-papers. 
Omitting certain special expenditure which has been made out of surplus revenues, the estimated expenditure for the year just closed was £64,368,968. The actual expenditure was £65,836,433, which is £1,467,465 in excess of the estimate. 
The revenue for 1924-5 was estimated at £64,395,000. The amount actually received was £68,854,809, so that there was received in excess of the estimate a sum of £4,459,809. If we bring the actual revenue arid expenditure of 1924-5 together, we find the position to be as follows: The revenue was £68,854,809, and the expenditure, excluding 'the  special expenditure made out of surplus revenues, was £65,836,433, so that there was an actual surplus on the year of £3,018,376. 
As we already had in hand a surplus from 1923-24 of £1,591,153, the accumulated surplus at 30th June, 1925, amounted to £4,609,529. 
Perhaps, at this point, . honorable senators might desire to hear how it is proposed to utilize this surplus. A sum of £1,500,000 is being paid to the National Debt Sinking Fund Commissioners for the purpose of debt redemption; a further sum of £1,500,000 is being employed on naval construction, thus making altogether £3,500,000 for the building of our cruisers, submarines, seaplane carrier, &amp;c. A further grant is being made to the states for main roads development - £750,000 being made available for this purpose. Honorable senators will remember that, during the previous two years, a sum of £1,000,000 was specially appropriated in this connexion. Of the surplus, there remains still a sum of £859,529, and of this, £100,000 is being used for a re-organized Institute of Science and Industry, and £100,000 is being set aside for prospecting for oils and precious metals, the balance of £659,529 being taken to trust fund for the payment of invalid and old-age pensions. 
Honorable senators will observe that there has been some alteration in the method of presenting the Estimates this year, and that they have been divided into three parts, namely: - 
Part 1. - Departments and services other than business undertakings and territories of the Commonwealth. 
Part 2. - Business undertakings. 
Part 3. - Territories of the Commonwealth. 
This change has been decided upon so as to facilitate a study of our finances, and to show the position of each part and its different sections in bold relief. By this means, further, the burden of the Government railway enterprises and our territories, will be evident at a glance. 
Under Part 1, the expenditure for 1925-26 is estimated at £56,619,283. The comparable figure of 1924-25 is £54,477,763, so that there is an increase this year, compared withlast, of £2,141,520. The main items of increase are - 
Interest on loans raised for states (but which is recoverable from the states), £827,797. 
Invalid and old-age pensions, £787,095. 
Interest and sinking fund on war loans (due to the conversion now being made of our £67,000,000 loan from 4½ per cent, to 5½ per cent. interest rate) £323,895. 
Honorable senators will doubtless be specially interested in the increase of £787,095 proposed in regard to invalid and old-age pensions. The present rate of invalid and old-age pensions is 17s. 6d. per week. Information at present in the hands of the Government, however, indicates that the Royal Commission on National Insurance will recommend, as part of its scheme, a payment of 20s. per week. The Government considers that it would be an anomaly for existing invalid and old-age pensions to be kept on a different scale. Accordingly provision is being made for these pensions to be increased to £1 per week simultaneously with the passage of such portion of the national insurance proposals as may be approved by Parliament. 
As regards Part 2 of the Estimates, Business Undertakings, the expenditure out of revenue for the PostmasterGeneral's Department for 1925-26 is estimated at £10,616,435, against a revenue of £10,710,000. There is thus an expected surplus of £93,565. I might here mention that the Estimates include an expenditure from loan in 1925-26 of £6,000,000 for the Postmaster-General's Department for telegraph and telephone works, buildings, &amp;c. The actual expenditure out of loan in 1924-25 was £4,532,882, so it will be seen that a generous provision is being made in respect of works for the PostmasterGeneral's Department. 
In connexion with our railways, there is an estimated deficit for the current year, on the east-west railway, of £151,575 ; and, taking our Commonwealth railways as a whole, the total estimated expenditure for the year is £901,107, against a revenue of £371,000, leaving a total deficit of £530,107. 
Turning to Part 3, Territories of the Commonwealth, theNorthern Territory finances result in a deficit, which has to be borne by the general taxpayer, of £115,172; and, taking all the territories of the Commonwealth together, the total estimated expenditure in 1925-26 is £431,761, against an estimated revenue of only £29,000, leaving a total deficit of £402,761. 
Coming now to the revenue of the year, honorable senators will no doubt be interested to know that it has been decided to further reduce the rate of income tax. Last year there was a reduction or something over 10 per cent, in the rates. This year the Government proposes to give relief to individual taxpayers to the very substantial amount of 12£ per cent., involving a loss of revenue of £1,400,000. It has also been decided to make a second reduction of  the entertainments tax. The last reduction raised the exemption of taxation to admissions of ls. and under; this year it is proposed to pass legislation providing that no tax shall be payable where the price of admission is less than 2s. 6d. 
The Government could not afford to do that. It must retain sufficient money to pay, for instance, the invalid and old-age pensions, for which an increase of £750,000 will be required. The loss of revenue from this concession is estimated at £360,000, and is being made so that the reductions of taxation shall be evenly distributed throughout the whole community. 
Loan expenditure of 1925-26 is estimated at £11,105,284, as against an expenditure in 1924-25 of £7,317,370. As I have already indicated, £6,000,000 of this is for the Postmaster-General's Department. 
Our gross national debt now stands at £430,947,592, the increase in 1924-25 being £15,347,493. This increase, however, was in the main due to the raising of £15,209,850 by the Commonwealth for the States. During the past year, £5,529,467 was made available from various sources for the redemption of our public debt, while in the previous financial year, £9,041,670 was so applied. For the two years the total is £14,571,137. 
These, perhaps, are the most important features presented in the estimates and budget-papers now' in the hands of honorable ' senators, and any further in formation they desire can readily be obtained from those documents. I consider that they show that the  financial  affairs of the Commonwealth are in a very satisfactory condition. By remissions ot income tax, a remission of the entertainments tax, and a further remission that will be asked for of indirect taxation through the Customs, a very substantial load will be lifted from the shoulders of the taxpayers of Australia. The Government's proposals on the expenditure side, providing for increased grants for main roads, and for invalid and old-age pensions, and increased provision for meeting our obligations in regard to defence, will also be satisfactory to the great mass of the people. 
The frugality of the Government, and its careful husbanding of the finances of the Commonwealth, have contributed to this happy position. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
I, too, desire to congratulate the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  upon his painstaking and informative speech in introducing the measure. I have never visited, the Northern Territory, much as I should like to see the country, but the Minister furnished us with a great deal of valuable information in regard to it. I was impressed by the remarks of  Senator Guthrie  concerning the Territory, and, no doubt, a vast sum of money will be required to enable it to be developed. I realize with honorable senators who have preceded me that in the course of time we shall probably see another state or -states formed there. I believe that about £4,000,000 has been spent in the Territory since 1911, but, being such a vast tract of country, there is very little to show for it. The cost of transport is one of the greatest handicaps to settlement. I understand that in some cases the settlers have to pay £40 or £50 a ton for the delivery of goods by boat, rail, and camel. I am satisfied that if the country is all that has been pictured by  Senator Guthrie  and other speakers, it is indeed very valuable.  Senator Guthrie  has described it as a purely cattle country, and the figures that 1 have taken out show that millions of acres have been leased. I am informed that the Barkly Tablelands country is second to none in Australia, and that some portions of it are suitable for sheep raising. No doubt a huge expenditure will be involved in protecting the holdings from the ravages of the wild dog and the rabbit, but in all probability that difficulty can be overcome in North Australia just as it has been solved in other parts of the Commonwealth. One authority says that this part of the Territory will carry one sheep to the mile, and another contends that it will carry three. If the latter be the case, it should be a wonderful country for wool. The fact that Vestey Brothers' great industry is not flourishing in the Territory to-day suggests that there is " something rotten in the State of Denmark." Immigration is regarded as one of the questions of the moment, and I wish to state emphatically in this connexion that I stand for a "White Australia. I have the greatest objection to North Australia being populated by coolies.  Senator Guthrie  stated that this was not an agricultural country, but was suitable only for the raising of cattle and sheep. I point out that many parts of the Commonwealth that at one time were considered to be unsuitable for agriculture are being cultivated successfully today, and I hope that that will be the experience in the Northern Territory.  Senator Guthrie  said that a bonus should be given to anybody who would settle there. He remarked that the .land would produce rice, tobacco, wheat, cattle, sheep, cotton and strawberries, not forgetting mosquitoes. The real trouble is the lack of means of communication. People are naturally averse to settling in the back country far removed from telephone and telegraph communication. In the near future I believe that it will be found that less than half the area of some of these holdings will be quite sufficient for any one to maintain. Not many years hence these vast areas will be so subdivided and improved by the erection of vermin-proof fences and the putting down of bores that they will support thousands more families than at present. 
As has been pointed out, the Northern Territory also has wonderful mineral possibilities. Statistics show that gold and silver-lead ores are produced. Who can say but that we may open up another Broken Hill there? 
It is also quite possible that the Territory contains another Kalgoorlie. Tin, copper, wolfram, graphite, mica, coal, mineral oils - a good many leases have already been taken out for the exploitation of these oils - molybdenite, and other minerals have been discovered. Every encouragement should be given to men to go out and prospect thi3 mineral-bearing country. It is essential, however, that transportation facilities shall be provided. Without doubt Australia is one of the greatest mineral-producing countries in the world. Seeing that much of the Northern Territory has not even been scratched up to date, it is quite probable that some of the finest mines in the world will be opened up there. The tenor of most of the speeches that have been delivered during this debate has been that the Territory is a country of vast possibilities, and it is not unlikely that in the years to come three or four states may be formed within its vast borders. Our present trouble is to know how best to develop it. Shall we allow the Government to retain sole control of it, or shall we vest it in a sort of council, and so obviate the necessity for parliamentary sanction of everything that is done ? 
Such a council would, of course, need to obtain parliamentary sanction to borrow money. I am not in a position to give the distance of the various leases from the railhead, but it is unquestionable that additional transport facilities are essential. I trust that the Government will do the best it can to provide them. I have gone to a good deal of trouble to ascertain the dates on which various leases in the Territory will expire. The following table will explain itself: - 

<graphic href="110332192508134_10_0.jpg"></graphic>

The following table shows the rentals per square mile paid for various areas : - 
Those figures also indicate the vastness of this great country. It may be taken for granted that the choice areas have already been leased. The men settled on them are undoubtedly out in the wilds, but according to the pictures drawn by the various honorable senators acquainted -with the Territory, they are located in good country. Generally speaking, the farther one goes into the interior of the settled states of Australia the poorer and cheaper the land becomes, but it appears that the farther one goes back from the coast of the Northern Territory the better the land becomes. The poor land seems to be all near the coast. I do not know this of my own personal knowledge, but I have gathered it from the speeches that have been made during this debate. In these circumstances we ought to be wary of the way we go.' I trust that the highest hopes of the optimistic members of this chamber who have discussed this measure will be realized arid that the Territory will ultimately become a very valuable asset of the Commonwealth. 
My remarks will not occupy much time, for I feel that nearly everything that can be usefully said on this measure has already been said in a much better way than I could say it. I should like, however, to congratulate the Minister for Home and Territories  (Senator Pearce)  on the tremendous amount of work he has put into the consideration of the bill, and on the great interest he has evinced in the Territory ever since he assumed office. Without disparaging in any way the work of his predecessors, I think I may say that no other Minister has ever taken such a keen interest in the Northern Territory as has the present Minister for Home and Territories, and I do not think any other Minister has approached the consideration of the subject with the sympathy evinced by the right honorable gentleman. He has sensed what I think very few of his predecessors have sensed. It is a large territory, and it has to be handled on big lines. It is useless attempting to deal with the Territory with any half measures. . If this vast area of country was what many have pictured it, simply a howling wilderness of no use to any one, impossible of being satisfactorily developed, and impossible of being made a real asset to the Commonwealth, the best thing to do would be to leave it severely alone. If that were the position, it would be of no use to expend large sums of money on its development, or to give it that consideration which the Minister has devoted to it. But I am not one of those who believe that the Northern Territory is anything of the sort. I consider that we have in it a wonderful asset, and that there is, within its borders, a vast area of country capable of satisfactory and profitable development. It can only be developed, however, on right lines.  Senator Graham  in the course of the few remarks he made on this subject, touched on what I believe to be the greatest difficulty under which the Territory labours. If we consider for a moment the way in which the rest of Austrafia has been developed, particularly the eastern and the southern seaboard, where the great bulk of the population is living to-day, we find that settlement has taken place along the coast. In close proximity to these centres of settlement there are large areas of good country, and the hinterland has been gradually developed as the people have been pushed further and further in from the seaboard. The difficulty in the Northern Territory, as I see it, is that long distances from the seaboard have to be traversed before good country capable of intense development is reached, and, consequently, we have at the outset to face a tremendous transportation problem, which has always been a great factor in retarding development. It is impossible under existing conditions to open up and settle this country when up to £40 a ton has to be paid to get provisions, plant, and everything required, on to the land, and similar rates to get produce away to the markets. Everyone knows that the large tracts leased in the Territory are held not because the lessees can utilize the whole of them, but because they embrace sufficient watering places to carry the requisite stock. Only a certain extent of the country around the watering places can carry stock, for the simple reason that stock can only travel a recognized distance from water. In the portions of the Territory already developed, water can be obtained at reasonable depths, and it is capable of being pumped to the surface, but the cost of equipping stations to-day with bores and with mills, or other means of raising water, is so great that the work does not pay. In consequence of this we have slow development. If it were possible to make money in the Northern Territory, the mere' fact that it is a long distance from the other settled portions of the Commonwealth would not prevent people from going there. If there was an opening there for the profitable expenditure of money, capital would soon be forthcoming. Every one who has had experi ence of the Northern Territory knows that it is impossible to obtain an adequate return for the reasons I have mentioned. That state of things can only be met by reducing the cost of transportation, both in regard to supplies- and plant for the stations, and in getting the produce away. It is only by the provision of improved facilities that the Territory will be opened up and the investment of capital made profitable. The Government in this bill has sought to lay the foundation of such a developmental policy. I take it that that is the real object and intention of the bill. We must have a broad developmental policy, and recognize that this is a problem which must be approached in a businesslike way. Whether the method which the Government has chosen is the one best calculated to accomplish the end it has in view, is of course a matter of opinion. All we can ask the critics of the scheme is to show us a better way. I have heard a great many discuss it. Only the other day -when some gentlemen were criticizing the scheme I said, "You have a great deal to say against it. Can you tell me what you would do?" They had not a single constructive idea to communicate to me. They could not give me one solitary leading line on which to go. And so I said to them, "As you have no alternative to offer, why should I oppose the measure? I cannot see any reason for any active opposition to it, because I think it is probably the solution of the difficulty." As the Minister pointed out in his second-reading speech, one of the great difficulties he and other Ministers have been up against is the lack of continuity of policy. .Owing to the peculiar conditions which exist in the Northern Territory, there is only a certain period of the year in which money can be expended. Parliament votes money from year to year, and under the system which Parliament in its wisdom has evolved in relation to the control of public expenditure of the country, until Parliament has set its imprimatur upon the budget, and the Treasurer is in the frame of mind to make money available, very little can be done. Then when the end of the financial year comes, Parliament again goes through the same performance. It so happens that the period of the year which immediately follows after the money has-been voted is one in which the money cannot be expended in the Territory. 
During that period supplies are cut off, and nothing can be accomplished. That has happened year after year with monotonous regularity, and has exasperated every one who has endeavoured to deal with the problems. The Minister has suggested the appointment of a commission very largely with the idea of overcoming that difficulty. The only thing I am not satisfied about in my own mind is whether this measure will accomplish what is in-  tended in that direction. I should like the Minister either when replying to' the second-reading debate or in committee to explain how this measure will entirely overcome the difficulties which, as I have already stated, have exasperated every one who has endeavoured to tackle the Northern Territory problems in a practical way. I am not sure that the Government is proposing to give the commission all the powers that it will be necessary for it to possess in order to overcome the present situation. I can quite understand that in view of the experience which this Parliament had with another commission in days gone by, it will be very careful in handing over to another body powers which' Parliament might reasonably desire to keep within its own control. I admit the necessity for the exercise of the greatest possible care in dealing with this aspect of the question, but at the same time I urge the Minister to give the commission within certain definite limitations the power to spend such moneys as Parliament makes available. The Government should free it from any unnecessary fetters, and then endeavour by the character of the appointments made to the commission, to safeguard Parliament from the experience it has already had in relation to another commission, the name of which I need not mention. There is one provision in the bill, to which I have already privately drawn the attention of the Minister, concerning which I should like to say a word or two. I refer to clause 44. If honorable sena tors refer to that clause they will see that it provides that- 
There shall be an Advisory Council  for  North Australia to advise the Government Resident in relation to any matter affecting North Australia. - 
These words then follow in parentheses -  hut not including any matter relating  to the  powers of the commission or any  matter under  the control of the commission - 
Then follow these words -  including advice as to the making  of new  ordinances or the repeal or amendment of existing ordinances. 
As the clause is drafted, I think the Advisory Council will have the power to advise the Minister in relation to all ordinances governing matters which are entirely under the control of the commission - matters in regard to which the council has no control at all, and over which the bill is not designed to give them control. That, I am sure, is not the intention of the Minister. 
If the parentheses were placed at the end instead of in the middle of the clause, I believe that the intention of the Minister would be made quite clear. He, I think, does not intend that the council shall act as an advisory body to him upon matters that are within the control of the commission but outside the control of the council. If the matter is not made clear, sooner or later there will be a conflict between the commission and the council, and an interruption of those amicable relations that are necessary if the Territory is to progress. Wherever there is divided control there is bound to be conflict and friction. There is a great deal that one could say regarding the provisions that are contained in this measure, but others who are better acquainted than I with the matter have already expressed their views upon it. I shall therefore conclude by again congratulating the Minister upon his attempt to handle a big problem on broad lines, and in the comprehensive way that is necessary in order to deal with it satisfactorily. 
No measure within my ministerial experience has met with such a friendly reception, even from its critics, as that which has been accorded to the bill now  before us. There has certainly been some criticism of it, but it has been constructive, and there has been an entire absence of any desire to do other than contribute something helpful towards the solution of what is admittedly an intricate and difficult problem. No party significance has attached to any of the criticism. That in itself is a happy augury, because this is a problem that affects the whole of Australia, and not any particular political party in it; any party would experience difficulty in dealing properly with it. I do not therefore propose to traverse much of what has been said. Many of the points that have been raised can be dealt with in committee. Let me deal, first of all, with those that were raised by  Senator Greene,  because they are typical of a great deal of the " criticism that has been offered to the bill. I quite agree with him that the financial powers that - it is proposed to give to the commission are really the most important portion of the bill. If the power of the commission to expend the money that is made available is restricted, as is the case with the administration to-day, no good will result, and this legislation will be a failure. Luckily we have some experience to guide us in dealing with the matter. The financial powers contained in the bill are an exact copy of those with which the Federal Capital Commission is invested. Whether the money be granted from loan fund or revenue fund the Federal Capital Commission is given a lump sum. It first of all presents its estimates, setting out the manner in which it proposes to spend the amount for which it asks. When the Minister has given his approval to those estimates the money is made available by the Treasurer, after which no further reference is necessary to either the Minister or the Treasurer. 
It is an absolute grant, which the commission proceeds to expend according to the estimates it has submitted. The vote does not lapse at the end of the financial year. There is therefore a differentiation between that expenditure and an ordinary departmental vote, which, if unexpended at the end of the financial year, lapses. That, too, although in a rather different way, is the experience of the Murray Waters Commission. The Commonwealth has, at- times, voted sums from loan fund and revenue fund, which from the point of view of the Treasury are regarded as actual expenditure, even though months may elapse before the works are actually commenced. The Federal Capital Commission submits a developmental scheme covering a period of one year. That has first of all to receive the approval of the Minister. Having got that, the Treasurer is asked to make the money available. He may provide the amount from revenue account, or give the commission power to borrow, or borrow on its behalf. So soon as the money is provided, however, its expenditure comes directly under the control of the commission. 
No. 
Absolutely. There is, however, the provision that ministerial approval must be obtained before an appointment carrying a salary greater than £500 a year is made. Let me give an instance of what now occurs in the Northern Territory. A road is asked for. Its construction has been recommended by the Administrator twelvemonths previously, and the approval of the Minister has been obtained. The matter then comes within the control of the Department of Works and Railways. Until the Estimates are submitted to Parliament, the Home and Territories Department is not aware of what has become of . the proposal. The Department of Works and Railways includes that work amongst its Estimates, which cover also the whole of the works that have been asked for by other departments. The Treasurer, reviewing the Estimates, says to the Department of Works and Railways, "You have asked for £750,000, but only £500,000 is available." Those Estimates then go back to the Department of Works and Railways, by whom they are cut down to bring them within the limit of £500,000. When the Estimates are presented to Parliament we may find that this particular road has disappeared from the list. The commission will occupy quite a different position. Having submitted its estimates to the Minister and obtained his approval, it will receive the money and proceed with the work. The Minister, of course, will have to advise the Cabinet and obtain its concurrence before giving his approval. 
No. Before the appointment of the Federal Capital Commission every proposed work had to go through the Department of Works and Railways. To-day that department has nothing whatever to do with any work in the Federal Capital Territory, nor has ministerial approval to be obtained to individual works. I, as Minister, merely approve of a schedule of works, to carry out which a lump sum of money is. provided. 
The commission will have the same staff as the Department of Works and Railways now has to carry out road construction. 
That is so. On account of the scattered nature of the population of the Northern Territory, and the small number of public servants that is employed, a peculiar anomaly has arisen. Some time ago the Department of Works and Railways decided to carry out road construction in the tablelands portion of the Northern Territory. It had no artisans there, but the Department of Home and Territories happened to have a very good officer -  Mr. Stutterd  - at Maranboy tinfield. It was necessary to loan him to the Department of Works and Railways to carry out that work for the Home and Territories Department. Could one imagine a situation containing a greater element of comic opera than that? In future any officer who does such work will be employed by the commission and will not be responsible to either the Department of Works and Railways or the Home and Territories Department. I feel confident that this is the only way in which anything of a practical nature can be done. I am quite sure that no good can result from the existing system. An honorable senator referred to the necessity to paint certain buildings. It is a fact that the painting of buildings in Darwin has been lamentably neglected. But what is one to do ? A "road" in the Northern Territory merely means making some sort of a crossing over a creek or a sand patch to provide a means, difficult though it may be, for getting across. The amount of money required for such work is considerable. The unfortunate Minister knows very well that if he asks for a. sum sufficient to provide for road construction and also the painting of buildings, some of his road work is bound to be sacrificed. He must choose between asking for money for roads and bores, or for the painting of buildings in Darwin. Obviously his choice will be for the former, because unpainted buildings will not fall down. Even if they did it would not be altogether disastrous to the Territory. On the other hand, if roads and bores are neglected people will be unable to live in the back country. 

 Senator Greene, in the course of his remarks to-day, dealt with clause 44 of the bill, which deals with the powers of the Advisory Council. As a layman, I agree with the construction which he placed upon the clause, but the draftsman thinks otherwise. However, to make quite sure, we intend to ask the committee to alter the clause. Some time ago I introduced a measure in the Senate dealing with the Crown lands ordinances. In the debate on that bill all sorts of prophecies were made. I made some myself. One of the statements that I made was - and this view was supported to some extent by  Senator Greene  to-day - that many people appeared to think that the Northern Territory was a sort of Eldorado, a place where fortunes could be made without much effort. That, of course, is quite a mistake. We said that we must give intending lessees long tenures at low rentals in order to induce them to take up the land. 
We succeeded in convincing Parliament that our view was the right one. As the result, Parliament approved the alteration of the conditions. Since that measure was passed we have been able to induce holders of leases under the South Australian law to surrender them and take up 42- year leases under our' land ordinance. 
This principle, I may add, was strongly attacked by our friends opposite. It is gratifying to me, therefore, to be able to say that, although this new land ordinance has been in operation for less than two years, a large number of leases under the South Australian legislation have been surrendered for leases under the Commonwealth ordinance, which gives the Government the right within ten years to sub-divide one-fourth of the area held under lease, and within twenty years the right to resume and subdivide another 25 per cent. of the total area held. Within the last two days I have been advised by the Administrator that a large Queensland sheepraising company has purchased leases of 835 square miles of country on the Barkly Tablelands, near Newcastle Waters, and intends to prepare the country immediately for stocking with sheep. The leases in question were surrendered by the former lessees in June last, in exchange for leases which will shortly be issued under the provisions of our Crown lands ordinance. I regard this development as most encouraging, because the Queensland company referred to comprises people who have had extensive experience of that class of country, and know what are its' possibilities. What induced them to purchase these leases? 
No. I have just said that a large number of leases under the South Australian law have been surrendered and that the land is now under the ordinance referred to. 
Yes. That, is provided for in the ordinance.  Senator Newland  spoke of the possibility of mineral development in the Northern Territory. I dare say that some people will think, he was somewhat optimistic, but I agree with him that any day we may expect to hear of very important mineral discoveries there. Within the last two days I have received a telegram from the Administrator giving particulars of assays made by the Mines Department from samples of malachite ore taken at a depth of 20 feet from an outcrop measuring 15 ft. x 20 ft. near Tennant's Creek. These assays, I emphasize, were not made by a private assayer, but by a Government official at Darwin. I am advised that the three samples averaged 17 per cent. copper, 5 oz. silver, and 4 oz. 7 dwt. of gold to the ton. The richest sample assayed 33 per cent. copper, 12 oz. of silver, and 12 oz. 8 dwt. of gold to the ton. One sample contained neither copper nor gold, and only went 6 dwt. of silver to the ton, but carried a small percentage of nickel and cobalt - two very important and valuable minerals. Tennant's Creek is 500 miles south of the Katherine River and 650 miles north of Oodnadatta. Recently rich amber tin ore averaging 76.6 per cent. of metallic tin was discovered 12 miles north-west of Tennant's Creek. 
No, but, as I have said, the samples were taken at a depth of 20 feet from an outcrop measuring 15 ft. x 20 ft. Of course, it may be that the samples were not a fair average of the reef. 
That is so. We can be quite sure, however, that it was a reliable assay of the sample submitted, and, therefore, it is most encouraging. Undoubtedly there are important mineral deposits in the Northern Territory, and it is quite possible that any day we may stumble upon another Kalgoorlie or Broken Hill there. It should not be forgotten that at one time it was predicted that gold would never be discovered in Western Australia. The more the country is opened up by improved transportation facilities the more likely are we to be rewarded with important mineral developments. If, on the other hand, we fail to provide the means of communication it will become increasingly difficult to do anything with the Territory. The pastoral industry at all events can only be successfully developed if we supply satisfactory means of transportation. The bill of itself will not develop the Territory, but it is designed to create efficient machinery to enable that development to take place. When the Constitution was drafted, the framers did not design constitutional machinery for the development of the country, because at that time it was not anticipated that this responsibility would rest upon the Commonwealth Government. The lands, railways, and mines were all under the control of the respective states, but the Commonwealth Government has since taken over the Northern Territory, and is, in fact, the only government responsible for its development. Therefore, in so far as that Territory is concerned, we have to act as a State Government would act, and construct railways and roads, and provide for other means of transportation. The seat of government should be on the spot. 
Turning now to the administration by a commission, the suggestion was made during the debate that members of that body should be elected. I hope that view will not be pressed for this reason : The machinery must be effective, and to ensure efficiency we must get the right men for the commission. 
Some kind friends have suggested that I am going to be the  chairman  of that body; that I am creating a billet for myself. I assure them that I am not going to be the  chairman  of this commission. I do not think I am the right man for the job. There are. not many men in Australia who could undertake such a responsibility.* 
I am not canvassing any one. I am simply emphasizing the importance of the position, and expressing the opinion that not many men are fitted for it. I am convinced that a process of popular election would be the very surest way to discover the wrong men. " 
No one suggests that members of the commission, should be elected. 

 Senator Thompson, unlike other honorable senators who contributed to the second-reading debate, appeared to think that the Government proposal went too far with regard to the duties of the advisory councils. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5 (Definitions) - 
.- When the bill was in the second-reading stage, I suggested that the Government might give consideration to the employment of some new and euphonious names for the- two divisions of this territory, which will eventually become new states. Western Australia occupies a large portion of this continent, and so also does South Australia. It seems to me that by naming the two areas into which the Northern Territory is to be divided North Australia and Central Australia only confusion will result. Perhaps there are men whose exploratory and pioneering work entitle them to have their names perpetuated. I suggest that the Government -postpone consideration of the clause with a view to recommending the adoption of new names. 

 Senator PEARCE  (Western AustraliaMinister for Home and Territories)  ]~i.26. -  The suggestion was considered, but the Government thought this hardly the proper time for the introduction of new names. We hope that these large areas will eventually become states, but they are not states at the present time. When they are declared states the time will be opportune to consider whether it would be advisable to bestow upon them more distinctive names than North Australia and Central Australia. Any proposed new names would need to be criticized from every angle, and the 
Government thought the designations chosen to be fairly descriptive. New names at the present stage would be rather grandiose, for these areas will long remain territories of the Commonwealth. 

 Senator FINDLEY  (Victoria)  5.28].-  I am not too favorably disposed towards the proposed names. The Minister  (Senator Pearce)  stated that the Northern Territory did not occupy a high place  in  the opinion of many people both inside and outside Australia. While I do not think that the names selected will make  any  difference in regard to opinion concerning the Territory,  it  seems to me that the proposed titles will be rather confusing, especially to people overseas. We shall have Western Australia, South Australia, North Australia, and Central Australia, hut the large eastern states will be left off the map. 
Not at all, but the Government should hesitate before adopting the proposed names, which may cause inconvenience in connexion with letters and telegrams. 
I realize that the Northern Territory must be divided, but that can be done without departing from the present name. 
That would be preferable to the present proposal. I move - 
That the clause be postponed. 

 Senator NEEDHAM  (Western Australia)  T5.33].  - Much may be said  in  favour of  Senator Foil's  contention that confusion would arise from the proposed change of names. I recognize the difficulty in obtaining a suitable, designation, and I suggest that instead of using the terms " North Australia " and " Central Australia," we should adopt the names "Northern Territory" and "Southern Territory." 
From usage the world knows that Australia has a Northern Territory. 
I assure the Minister that this question has not been raised in a facetious spirit, but with a desire to assist him. We should, as  Senator Findley  suggested, postpone clause 5 so that we may have an opportunity to consider whether we cannot find better designations than those proposed. 
I can understand  Senator Foil's  attitude, but I cannot see that postponing the matter will help us, for it has already been in abeyance for three weeks, It is not a new point, for  Senator Foll  introduced it in his second-reading speech. In these circumstances I ask the committee to reach a decision to-day. Apparently we have the choice of only two terms. It is suggested that instead of calling these two areas North Australia and Central Australia, we should call them Northern Territory and Southern Territory. What virtue is there in the term " territory," and especially " Northern Territory," that we should desire to perpetuate it? We should want to forget it, for all its associations have been unfortunate. Its reputation is not good, and will be no advertisement to assist the new era which we hope to inaugurate. It would be a kindness to blot it out. Any name would be better than Northern Territory. In any case I do not think the term is apt. It suggests that this territory is an appanage of some other portion of Australia, whereas we desire to encourage the idea that it will grow into a separate state and become self-supporting. 
The Federal Territory is in quite a different category. It has been set apart for federal political "purposes'.. I suggest to honorable senators that 'the terms proposed in the bill designate fairly, in a geographical sense, the areas that they are proposed to cover. It has to be remembered that this area may ultimately constitute three, two, or only one state. It is for that reason that no effort has been made to fix on a- name which will be perpetuated. When the time arrives for the formation of new states in the Territory an effort should bo made to secure names which will not arrogate to them the generic term for the whole Commonwealth. In all the circumstances, I ask honorable senators to accept the proposal in the bill. 
Amendment negatived. 
 When replying to  Senator Foll,  the Minister touched on the point I had in mind in regard to the Government Resident, but I should like him to make a definite statement on the matter. I understood at first that this commission would be managerial, but apparently it will have authority in certain specified matters only, and the Government Resident will have authority in other matters. I was hopeful that it would have complete authority and would not be hampered by any Government Resident. 
The Government has endeavoured to avoid loading the commission with a lot of detailed administrative work. If it had to discharge all the ordinary administrative duties it would have a good excuse for remaining in Darwin, whereas we desire that it shall concern itself very definitely with developmental work in the interior. Unfortunately, the experience of all ministers and heads of government departments is that detailed administrative duties occupy so much of their time that they are unable very often to give the consideration they desire to bigger and new developmental projects. Our intention is that this commission shall be responsible for lands, railways, and public works and that the Government Resident shall give his attention to all matters touching education, justice, police, and the aborigines. The Government Resident will not be a" highly paid officer, and his duties will be limited to distinctly administrative work. By this means we hope to free the commission so that it will devote the whole of its time to developmental work. The term "Government Resident" is frequently used. The Queensland Government has a Government Resident on Thursday Island. There is a Government Resident in the north-west of Western Australia.. The term was also used in the early days of the .Northern 
Territory by the South Australian Government; for it had a Government Resident in the Territory to represent it in all administrative matters. 
.- I also am anxious that the overhead machinery of this commission shall not be heavy. When  Senator Thompson,  in his second-reading speech, remarked that as the commission would be composed of three members it should not be necessary to have a Government Resident also I was inclined to agree with him, but I can see the force of the Minister's remarks. When I was at Alice Springs with the Public Works Committee, I met Sergeant Stott, who was virtually the Government Resident there. We discovered that his duties included those of lands ranger, sergeant of police, protector of aborigines, Crown prosecutor- 
Thatis so, and I could go on enumerating his duties for quite a while. He actually found himself in the position of having to frame a charge against an aboriginal prisoner and then, as protector of aborigines, conducting his defence. Further, as he was the only man there with any particular knowledge of the law, he had to recommend to the presiding magistrate, who was the local postmaster, the sentence that should be passed on the man he was defending.I take it that the Government Residents at Alice Springs and Darwin under this new arrangement will discharge many of the duties that I have already mentioned. The people in the north have much better medical facilities than those in the south, and I suggest, for the consideration of the Government, that, if possible, it should give special consideration in making this appointment to any applicant whois a qualified medical practitioner. 
I am glad to hear that. The appointment of such a man would be most acceptable. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6 - 
For the purposes of this Act there shall be a North Australia Commission, which shall be charged with the general administration of this part of this act. . . . 
 I move - 
That the words "North Australia Commission", sub-clause (1), be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words, " Provisional Council consisting of three members elected by the people resident in the area proposed to be controlled, and three members nominated by the Governor-General in Council." 
If that amendment is agreed to I shall move - 
That after sub-clause (1) the following new sub-clause be inserted :  - "(1a) The Governor-General in Council shall appoint one of the members to be the  chairman  of the Provisional Council." 
The right honorable Minister in charge of the bill somewhat anticipated this amendment when he made his speech in reply to the second-reading debate. He said that some one had suggested that the control of North Australia and Central Australia should be placed in the hands of a few people, who would elect a provisional council, but who would not have to pay taxes. It will be seen, however, that according to my amendment the people of this area are to be given permission to elect only half the proposed council. Why should not these people have a voice in the choice of those who are to govern them ? There is in my amendment a provision that there shall be three members of a provisional council nominated by the Governor-General in Council, and, also, a further proposal that the GovernorGeneral in Council shall appoint the  chairman  of the commission. That discounts the suggestion made by the Minister. When speaking on the second reading of the bill, I said that I was in favour of the suggestion made by an ex-Premier of Queensland  (Mr. Theodore)  that a provisional Government should be appointed to which, as  Mr. Theodore  suggested, a loan of £20,000,000 should be granted to enable it to carry on for five years, and to test the possibilities of this great tract of country. That proposal was acceptable to me, but I think, on reviewing the situation, that a provisional council might be even better than the proposed commission. The provisional council, if the amendment is adopted, will be partly an elective and partly a nominated body, which will be controlled by the 
Government of the day, through the  chairman  appointed by the GovernorGeneral in Council. I am submitting my amendment to test the feeling of the committee as to the form of control. I favour a provisional council, possessing greater powers than it is proposed to grant to the commission, because even now the Minister has not convinced me that this commission, if appointed, will possess more authority than the present administrator. The Minister, in his reply to the second-reading debate, suggested that, if the commission were appointed, there would not be delay in consequence of any possible conflict between the Department of Home and Territories and the Department of Works and Railways. I admit that conflict in details might be avoided, but after a close perusal of the bill I find that the commission will be hampered in its work, just as has been the present administrator. The commission will have to refer all important matters to the Minister at the Seat of Government, whether it be in Melbourne or Canberra. This is a vital provision, and one on which the feeling of the committee should be tested. I am not opposing the measure as a whole, but am only endeavouring to improve it. Instead of having a. commission it would be better to have a provisional council, such as I have suggested, to which the 2,000 white residents in the Territory would have the right to elect three members. That would be countered by the nomination of  three others, and the appointment of a  chairman  by the GovernorGeneral in Council. We should not depart from the elective system in its entirety, and should not appoint a commission without consulting the wishes of the people who' are living there. 
In supporting the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham),  I remind the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  that the fact that- the British Government refused to give New South Wales anything approaching a system of local government until the population of that state was approximately 50,000, is no reason why in this age we should prevent the residents of the Northern Territory from electing their representatives.- Up to the present the people of New South Wales are handi capped by the existence, not of an elective, but of a nominated upper chamber, which stultifies every advanced proposal passed by the lower House. Even now the people of New South Wales have not the form of government which, thanks to the Labour Government, is enjoyed by the electors of Queensland. We are now asked to agree to the appointment of a commission quite regardless of the wishes of the people in the Northern Territory. It would, I think, be better to extend a complete system of local government to the people of this Territory, lt must be remembered that if the Governments of Queensland and Western Australia agree to a portion of the territories in those states coming under the control of the commission, the white population to be controlled by this body will be approximately 4,000, which will include some of the most enterprising people in the Commonwealth. We advocate the adult population of the country having power to express an opinion concerning its management, but 'it is now proposed to depart from that principle. In New Guinea the people have little, if any, voice in the management of the country. In Papua there is at least a semblance of local government, but it is not proposed to give even that to the people resident in the Northern Territory. Surely that is a mistake, and the proposal should not be countenanced for a moment. The amendment submitted by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is a modest one, and is in accordance with the principle adopted by the Senate in regard to Papua, where there is a council partly elected and partly nominated. ' Why should we not extend similar privileges to those vigorous' and virile people who are assisting in the development of the Northern- Territory? I trust the Government will agree to the amendment, remembering that all we ask is that three members shall be elected, whilst three more are to be nominated, and of that number the Governor-General will have the right to appoint one as  chairman.  As a matter of fact, the Government appointee will control the commission. 
I am sorry I cannot support the proposal submitted by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham).  Everything must have a beginning, but in this case the two honorable senators who have preceded me desire to skip the beginning and commence half way through. We are justified in looking upon these territories as Crown colonies of Australia. No country has been more successful than Great Britain in its handling of Crown colonies, and invariably the administration has, for a certain period, been left to appointees of the Imperial Government. The success which has attended the colonization efforts of that government has been due to the appointment of men who were free from political bias, and had not to act in a way which would ingratiate them with the electors. Men of proved integrity and ability, possessing an independent spirit, and acting as they thought best, have been responsible for the success of Britain's Crown colonies. I do not  see any reason for altering these provisions in the bill. The proposal to appoint three men is a very good one. Only men of high calibre and undoubted character are likely to be charged with the responsibility of governing Australia, and they will see that only qualified persons are appointed to these positions. I do not know a great deal about the Northern Territory. It is very many years since I was even in the southern portion of it. The probability is that the residents would make a choice from among their number for appointment to these positions. It would be somewhat of a gamble to rely upon them to choose men equal to those whom this or any future government might appoint. If local knowledge is required, it will be readily accessible. Therefore, I do not think that the amendment has " a leg to stand upon," and I cannot support it. 
.-I believe that the Government is actuated by the best motives, and that this matter has been decided only after serious and mature consideration. The Government, in its wisdom, believes that its proposal will be in the best interests of not only the Territory, but also the Commonwealth as a whole. With all due deference, I submit that the interest of the residents of the Northern Territory in its development will be measured by the encouragement to do so that is given to them. It is true that the Northern Territory comprises a very big portion of the north of Australia. It has made little or no progress for very many years, and its people have been sorely disappointed at the apparent inaction of this and past administrations. They are anxious to see the Territory peopled and developed. If the amendment were agreed to, the Government would still have the appointment of three commissioners, and 1 believe that it would do all that was humanly possible to obtain the services of the men best fitted for the positions. The amendment proposes that, in addition, the residents of the Northern Territory shall have the opportunity to select, by ballot, three men to act with the commissioners. In all probability, they would make the selection from among their own number, but that does not necessarily follow. Those who have lived for many years in that portion of Australia are familiar with its requirements, and hold definite opinions regarding its development. They are just as capable of tendering advice and making recommendations as will be the commissioners whom it is proposed to appoint. 
That may be true. But when I was up there a few years ago I learned that some of the residents had travelled over the major portion of the Territory. 
There are men up there who have risked their lives in the search for the precious metals and other wealth that we believe lies hidden ir&gt; the Territory. We believe in a democratic form of government. We should, therefore, say to the inhabitants of the Northern Territory, " Your co-operation will be beneficial to the future of the Territory, and we propose to give you the opportunity to elect three men to act with the commissioners." That would give them hope and courage. It would make them feel that they are a portion of Australia - a portion which, at no distant date, we hope will comprise a new state. Are they not capable of electing three men? In  a  minor way the bill does what the amendment proposes. There is to be a Government Resident in the north, and another in the south. The advisory council is to be partly nominee and partly elective. Why not extend that provision to the commission? The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  said that the proposal relating to the advisory council aimed at fitting men to hold responsible positions. The importance of the work to be done will not be much greater in the case of the commission than in the case of the advisory councils. I do not think that anything would have a more beneficial effect upon the development of the Territory than the proposal contained in the amendment. No one would be so foolish as to believe that those who ' reside in Darwin do not travel beyond the confines of that town. Many of those people have travelled over thousands of miles of the Territory. When they were given the opportunity to elect a representative to another place, the keenest interest was manifested by them. They hoped that something practical would be done to advance their interests. This is the psychological moment for action by the Government. A reference has been made to 'Crown colonies. They no longer exist in Australia. The Minister said that- New South Wales was not given responsible government until it had  a  population of 50,000. Like " the flowers that bloom in the spring," that has " nothing to do with the case." Only a few years ago, some persons were opposed to the principle of " one man, one vote." Only yesterday, figuratively speaking, there was opposition to adult suffrage. Having agreed upon a democratic franchise we can, in a small way, give the people! of the Northern .Territory the opportunity to share in the responsibility of governing that portion of Australia. I feel satisfied that they would not select unsuitable representatives. If they did, the blame for any subsequent failure would rest upon their shoulders. Regarding the matter solely from a selfish point of view, they would see that men who were well fitted to undertake the work were elected. I believe that the Northern Territory has a great future, and I desire that its people shall not be treated differently from those who reside in other parts of Australia. 
They have the same ideals and the same objective. We are here to legislate for the whole of Australia, and we should take advantage of this opportunity to do something for people who are- playing their part in the development of the Northern Territory. No sound argument has been advanced up to the present against the amendment submitted by  Senator Needham.  The people of the Northern Territory are intelligent and well qualified to express an opinion concerning appointments to the commission. 
I was hoping that the Minister, having heard the reasons advanced for the amendment, would have changed his mind.  Senator Kingsmill,  I think, is under a misapprehension. There is nothing in the amendment to suggest that the three members of the proposed * provisional councils must bo residents of the Northern Territory. The widest selection will be available to the people. They may draw nominees from any part of Australia. If the purely elective . system is good enough for the advisory councils it should also be good enough for the controlling body. 
Progress reported. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.27 to S p.m. 

I am afraid that  Senator J.  Grant's youthful impetuosity has projected him a little too far. The time may arrive when the honorable senator as Treasurer of the Commonwealth will have to frame  a  budget, but it has not come yet, and I dare say that there are a great many people who hope that it never will.  His  proposal would relieve 74 per cent, of the taxable estates from the estate duty tax. One can only marvel at the honorable senator's audacity, and deplore his lack of discretion.  His  object is quite clear. Those honorable senators who have been members of this Chamber for any length  of time know that his one ideal is the single tax, and instead of asking the Senate straight out to adopt that system he proceeds to install it in a piecemeal fashion.  His  maiden effort is an attempt to lop off 74 per cent, of the estates liable to the estate duty tax. If this bill is passed tonight he will probably come along next Thursday evening with a second instalment of his reform and ask the Senate to" exempt the remaining 26 per cent, of those estates, For many weeks the Government has been engaged in a survey of the whole field of Commonwealth taxation. Income and land taxation, as well as estate duty taxation, have been under consideration, and with the tremendous war burdens that Australia is still carrying there is a limit to the amount of taxation that can be safely remitted. Those honorable senators who heard the epitome of the budget given in this chamber to-day will realize that the Government has gone to the limit in proposing remissions of taxation to which Parliament could be fairly asked to agree. To exempt 74 per cent, of the estates liable to pay the estate duty tax would be unreasonable. 
How much revenue would this cut off  1 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
.- In supporting the motion, which was ably moved by  Senator Ogden,  I consider that the disabilities under which Tasmania has been labouring for many years have been so fully and frequently ventilated in this chamber that every honorable senator ought to realize that the present claim is advanced in all seriousness. The representatives of my state appreciate the value of the time of the Senate, and always refrain from bringing forward matters that are not of the first importance. Tasmania, by reason of its insular position, has suffered more than any other state through entering into federation, and it therefore behoves the representatives of the mainland states to come to its assistance. The Navigation Act applies just as strongly to Tasmania as to any other part of the Commonwealth; but Tasmania is specially handicapped through having communication with the mainland only by water. Owing to its salubrious climate, Tasmania has become well known as the sanatorium of Australia, and it was never contemplated that the Navigation Act passed should be as prejudicial as it has proved to be to the best interests of that state.  Senator Ogden  made it clear, by statements which cannot be refuted, that many tourists who were accustomed to visit Tasmania annually are now prevented from doing so. The report of the royal commission on the operation of the coasting provisions of the Navigation Act pointed out how serious had been the loss to Tasmania; and I find, from the report of those members of the commission who were in the minority, that they based their contention on the fact that more tourists had visited Tasmania of recent years than in 1912-13. I point out, however, that that is no good reason why the coasting provisions should not be lifted. Every state has increased in population in the last ten or twelve years, and it is reasonable to assume that the tourist traffic would also grow. It would probably have increased by 50 per cent., as against the figures for 1912-13, had the people enjoyed facilities to travel to Tasmania by any. vessel they desired. When living at Hobart, I always looked forward to the arrival of the Peninsular and Oriental liners, which invariably brought a fairly large number of passengers who were taking advantage of the " apple trips." These vessels were enabled to call at Hobart on the home run in order to pick up apple cargoes, by reason of the extra passenger fares they were able to collect. Now those trips have been abandoned, and Tasmania is the loser thereby. Notwithstanding the statements made in the report of the royal commission that the records of the interstate companies showed that, for a considerable period of the year, half the passenger accommodation on those vessels was not availed of, no one would imagine that it would be utilized in the winter months. The report fails to point out that, in the tourist season, on the interstate boats of all classes, it is a common occurrence for a considerable proportion of the passengers to be accommodated in " shakedowns," and to have to put up with the inconvenience of overcrowded saloons. 
I feel sure that a few hours spent in crossing Bass Strait in an interstate boat may be more uncomfortable at certain times than a much longer period spent on a large and commodious oversea vessel. 
No. It is impossible to dissociate the passenger traffic from the fruit industry, which is of the utmost importance to Tasmania. The orchardists there found that, through having the advantage in the early part of the season of shipping comparatively small quantities of their fruit to the Home market, they were able to realize such a high price for it that they averaged a satisfactory return for the whole of then crop. The advantage Tasmania gained through the visit of these oversea vessels, and which she reasonably expected to hold for all time, has entirely gone, as without the passenger traffic it would not pay the steamers to call for these small shipments of fruit. 
And it is due to her, for she has had a very bad time in the last few years. Conditions had become altogether intolerable for the Tasmanian fruit-growers who had to rely on their export trade. In one portion of the report of the commissioners who opposed the lifting of the coasting clauses of the Navigation Act, insofar as they applied to Tasmania, it is stated that the output of fruit from Tasmania in the year preceding the writing of the report showed conclusively that the industry must be nourishing. The reply to that is that when the war ended, and Tasmania was faced with the problem of repatriating the brave men who had fought for her, she placed a large number of them in the fruit-growing industry. Hundreds of returned soldiers are endeavouring to make an honest livelihood, on small orchards in that state, with the result that a normal crop nowadays is much greater than the normal crop in pre-war years. It cannot be said, therefore, that the larger quantity of fruit exported in that year is an indication that the industry is flourishing. I refer honorable senators to pages 12, 13, and 14 of the report, which contain ample evidence of the disadvantage under which Tasmania is labouring in consequence of the coasting clauses of the act. But we should look at the matter from -the point of view that Tasmania is a part of the Commonwealth. If any state in the Commonwealth, because of its geographical or insular position, is suffering a disadvantage as compared with the other states, we ought to do everything possible to remove that disability. Tasmania has rights, and they ought to be recognized. It is undeniable that she is handicapped in consequence of  this act, and her development is being retarded, which means that the development of the whole of Australia is being hindered. We feel justified, therefore, in not only asking, but demanding, that our handicap shall be removed at ' the earliest possible moment. 
I trust that we shall never be backward. Why should we so frequently have to request what is really our right? 
We are here to prevent injustice being done to our state, certainly, but also to watch the interests of the whole of Australia. I protest against the necessity for fighting so strenuously for our dues. Surely honorable senators have enough common sense to see the justice of our claims. Tasmania's position is almost intolerable, and we ask that something definite and drastic shall be done immediately to make things easier for her. In answer to our repeated protestations, it has been stated that provision is made in the Navigation Act for the Minister to grant a licence for any vessel to provide a service for a particular port if he is satisfied that the existing service is inadequate. A vessel so licensed need not comply with the conditions of the Navigation Act. I do not wish to refer disrespectfully to any of our statutes, but I say advisedly and without hesitation that that provision of the Navigation Act is not worth the paper it is printed on, for it does not give the relief it was intended to give. 
The honorable senator is off on another track altogether. The measure we recently passed, which authorized the Minister to suspend the coasting provisions of the Navigation Act, was designed to meet cases of emergency. If an application were made to the Minister for the licensing of a vessel or vessels in consequence of an existing service being inadequate, what evidence would he require as to inadequacy? Some time ago I asked the Minister what evidence of inadequacy was given when licences were granted to overseas ships to bring people from various Australian ports to Melbourne for the Melbourne Cup. 
That is not sufficient. If 20,000 people were expected to come from Sydney, Adelaide, and Hobart for the Melbourne Cup meeting, it might be possible to prove that the existing service was inadequate, but it is almost impossible to prove the inadequacy of the shipping service for tourists who desire to visit Tasmania. It might be found after the tourist season had ended that 5,000 more people would gladly have visited Tasmania had there been adequate shipping facilities for them to do so, but it is too late after the season ends. I urge honorable senators to support the motion. It has been submitted with the object of securing fair play for Tasmania. Any one who has visited Hobart knows that luxuriously-fitted vessels call there regularly, but they are not permitted to carry passengers from other Australian ports to Hobart, or from Hobart to other Australian ports, because of the coasting provisions of the Navigation Act. 
That is not so ; but it certainly should be altered. Tasmania's rights should be fully recognized. I feel confident that if this motion is agreed to here and in another place, and the Navigation Act amended accordingly, no one in Australia will be any worse off. We should remove the unfair burden which Tasmania has had to bear for many years. 
 I do not desire to labour this subject, as the case for Tasmania has been well put by the mover of the motion and various other speakers. I should like, however, to present a few figures to the Senate which, I am sure, will carry weight. There is no doubt that the business community of Tasmania generally, and of Hobart in particular, have suffered seriously owing to the operation of the coasting sections of the Navigation Act. That suffering has unquestionably been reflected on the industrial community, and on Tasmania generally. 
Unless Tasmania can stabilize her industries, much more serious results must follow. At present she is losing her population rapidly, and the efforts of the 
Government to finance the state are being made under great difficulties. I ask honorable senators to consider carefully the following table: - 

<graphic href="110332192508134_26_0.jpg"></graphic>

These figures indicate quite clearly that Tasmania is relatively in a far worse condition to-day, compared with the other states, than she was at the time of federation. I would particularly call the attention of honorable senators to the percentage increase per head - that whereas Tasmania's increase in exports overseas was 27 per cent. since 1900, the average of the other states was 70 per cent. If Tasmania could obtain anything approaching the increases obtained by the other states in respect of overseas trade, the solution of its financial problem would be an easy matter. We claim that Tasmania's present position is largely due to the operation of the coasting clauses of the Navigation Act. 
All imports into Tasmania from overseas. I am dealing only with overseas trade, as that is practically the only trade affected by the operation of the coasting provisions of the Navigation Act. 
No; but very largely. There were some imports which came from South America, with which country a considerable amount of trade was done, but now that trade, and also the business which Tasmania did with New Zealand, has gone. The operations of the Navigation Act have caused a considerable restriction in trade, which has had the effect of reducing the population - is a very serious matter, particu larly to a small state. If this Parliament will give Tasmania assistance by the deletion of the provisions of the Navigation Act relating to coastal shipping, Tasmania's financial position can easily be improved. The Commonwealth Government cannot afford to stand by and see the finances of one state seriously affected when it can by the amendment of an act on its statute-book materially benefit that state. 
.- I am sympathetically "disposed towards the motion submitted by  Senator Ogden,  particularly after the experience that we had during the visit of the vessels of the American Fleet, and when the guests of the Government were humiliated by the action of certain seamen at Port Melbourne. Prior to that incident, as  a member  of the Navigation Commission,  I  had in conjunction with  Senator Duncan,  submitted a report concerning the necessity for an amendment of the Navigation Act. The principal act was couched in such terms that it was very difficult for the Minister and his advisers to waive the provisions of the act in cases of emer- . gency. The Minister has to be satisfied that a shipping service is inadequate "before he can waive any section of that act. Obviously, if such a position were disputed by the interstate shipping companies, an investigation would have to be held, and evidence called, which . would take up considerable time, and before a decision could be given the need for a suspension would probably have passed.  Senator Duncan  and I recommended that an- amendment should be made so that it would operate when it had been intelligently anticipated that a suspension would be necessary. If the Queensland frozen meat trade is to be carried on properly, provision should be made in advance, because cattle cannot be purchased, slaughtered, and frozen at a moment's notice. Under the provisions of. the act, it is impossible for the Minister, to be satisfied that, the shipping services will be inadequate two or three months hence, although he may know in his own mind by an intelligent anticipation of events and regard for what has happened in the past, what the prospects are. Under the act he is not permitted to anticipate anything.  Senator Duncan  and I, therefore, felt obliged to submit a report to the Government on the lines I have indicated, and I understood that subjection  2  of section 4, inserted in an amending Navigation Bill recently passed by this Parliament, would meet the position. That sub-section reads -  (2.) Where the Governor-General is satisfied, as regards any ship or class of ships, that such circumstances exist as render compliance with any specified requirement of this act impracticable, or make insistence upon compliance with that requirement undesirable in the public interest, he may, by order, direct that that ship or class of ships shall not be required to comply with that requirement. 
I understood that that sub-section was drafted to meet such cases as  Senator Duncan  and I had in mind, and I should like the' Minister to state if it is the intention of the Government to allow it to operate in such circumstances. If such is the case, the position outlined by  Senator Ogden  has been met. Under this amendment, it is no longer required that the Governor-General shall be satisfiedthat the shipping services are inadequate, but simply that the conditions are such as to make insistence upon compliance with the requirements of the act undesirable in the public interest. 
 Senator Ogden  admits that if the Government have that power, nothing more need be said; but if it is not intended to exercise it I trust the Government will, during the present Session, bring in a further amendment to make the act a workable instrument, which it is not at present. 
I think most honorable senators realise that the request contained in the motion is one to which a great deal of consideration has already been given. In fact, approximately two years ago the Government considered the matter of sufficient importance to appoint a royal commission, consisting of members of both branches of the legislature, to fully investigate the operations of the Navigation Act, in consequence of complaints which had been made from time to time. Some honorable senators are particularly anxious that the Navigation Act should be amended in the direction indicated in the motion. I think it is clear that the majority of those comprising the royal commission were undoubtedly convinced that Tasmania, as well as other states, were labouring under considerable disability in consequence . of the operation of the coasting provisions of the Navigation Act. I regret that those members of the commission who were of the opinion that the act should be amende'd, could not arrive at some compromise, so that the commission could submit a majority report clearly, indicating the conclusions resulting from their' deliberation. 
It is true, in a sense, that a majority report has not been submitted, but a majority of members of the commission who were satisfied that the Act should be amended could not so adjust their' differences as to bring down a majority report. 
Labour members of- the commission who stated in their report that the act should not be amended may, perhaps, sup-' port this motion. Whatever may have been in the minds of the members of both Houses when the  Navigation  Act was passed and when effect was given to its provisions, I am sure it was never contemplated that it would work so prejudicially against the interest of any one state, as it has done in the case of Tasmania. It has been stated in evidence that Tasmania has not suffered, but, on the other hand, evidence as been given to show that that sta' yjs~. experienced considerable difficulty. ' wing the matter from whatever angle we- may, the fact remains that there is less, shipping to Tasmania to-day than there was prior to the passing of this legislation. If that is so, we have to ascertain the cause. Tasmania is to-day labouring under disabilities that have been caused by the action of this Parliament, and it has been given few compensating advantages. The Senate is presumed to watch the interests of the states. It is, therefore, to this chamber that we should look for justice for individual states. A number of citizens of Tasmania have formed themselves into what is known as a shipping committee, and that committee has made representations to the Government upon this matter. The representatives of Tasmania in this Parliament met the committee last week, and again had the position fully explained to them. It is. a matter that peculiarly affects Tasmania, because that state is dependent for its transport upon the shipping industry. Vessels from overseas call at Fremantle, Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, and Brisbane, but few call at Tasmanian ports. A large quantity of the cargo that is consigned to Tasmania has to be discharged at mainland ports, and, consequently has to bear additional transshipment charges. The tourist traffic from the mainland to Tasmania during the summer months has been seriously interrupted. It is fair to assume that the Government, was in earnest when it appointed a royal commission to make investigations into the effect of the Navigation Act. The evidence taken by the commission having revealed a state of affairs prejudicial to one or more states, the Government should indicate its intention to introduce legislation so to amend the act that the disabilities which are now being suffered will be removed. Last year a motion in terms similar to this was moved in the Senate, but it was adjourned from time to time because it was considered advisable to await the report of the royal commission. That report has been presented, but so far the Government has not given any indication of its intentions with regard not only to Tasmania .but also to other states that have suffered to a less extent. The Navigation Act was largely experimental legislation. I am not aware of any other country.- that has legislation controlling its transport arrangements that is so rigid in its terms, arid so restrictive in its. operations. I hope that the majority of honorable senators will support the motion. 
 During the course of this debate it has been said that honorable senators are not often told of Tasmania's difficulties and troubles'. I think, however, that every honorable senator will do the Tasmanian representatives the credit of saying that they pull together wonderfully well. and work very hard in the interests of their state. 
One could not have a better brand than that which induces one to work in harmony with others for the benefit of the state one represents. The Government fully realizes the difficulties and anxieties that have confronted Tasmania. At one period of my life I conducted a very successful business in Broken Hill, but the anxieties caused by water famines, strikes, shortages of coal, and other interruptions to trade were so great that I was unable to carry on. That is the position in Tasmania to-day. Quite recently the Senate discussed a motion moved by  Senator J.  D. Millen. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  then gave an undertaking that the Government would do everything possible to ensure the continuance of shipping services to Tasmania. It merely undertook to provide that security of tenure which Tasmania, as one of the states of the Commonwealth, has- a rightto enjoy. The recent amendment of the Navigation Act applied to the shipping  services of the whole of Australia. This motion deals solely with the position of Tasmania. The Constitution provides - 
The Commonwealth shall not, by any law or regulation of trade, commerce, or revenue, give preference to one state or any part thereof, over another state or any part thereof. 
A royal commission to inquire into the effect of the Navigation Act was appointed in September, 1923. In .August, 1924, three separate reports were presented; and in July, 1925, a majority and a minority report dealing with Papua and New Guinea were submitted. The reconsideration of the  provisions of the Navigation Act is a very big and a very important matter-. 
The Government's advisors have assured it that it cannot deal solely with Tasmania without an alteration of the constitution. No one is more anxious than I am to assist Tasmania, and to see that it is given the service to which it is entitled. The fact has not been mentioned that at the present time the Government is subsidizing a service to Tasmania costing £30,000 a year. 
Oh, no! 
The mails could be carried for a very much less sum, on a poundage basis. I have had occasion to confer with the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Pratten)  upon this matter. I am sure that honorable senators do not forget the action of that honorable gentleman in seeing that the service to Tasmania was restored. An undertaking has been given that that service will be continued. It is hoped that there will not be. another seamen's strike for a very long time. The legislation that was recently passed by this Parliament should have a steadying effect upon those who have been creating difficulties in the shipping industry. They undoubtedly are responsible for the position in which Tasmania finds herself to-day. 
That is quite a mistaken idea. The impression that I gained a fortnight ago was, not that the Government or its supporters were afraid, but that very great fear was felt by certain other persons. The Government accomplished what it set out to do, namely, to place upon the statute-book a law that would enable the people of Australia to conduct their, businesses without interruption due to a " hold-up " of the shipping services. Up to the present the Govern ment has not had an opportunity to fully consider the position, and I can only repeat the assurance which my leader  (Senator Pearce)  gave to  Senator Millen  recently,, that the Government will see that the services to Tasmania are maintained. In these circumstances, I ask the honorable senator not to press the motion to a division. If he does, I shall have to vote against it, and ask other honorable senators supporting the Government to do likewise, not because the Government is in any way hostile to it, but because it has not yet had an opportunity to decide what is best to be done in the interests of the Commonwealth. 
I do not know what  Senator Ogden  proposes to do, but having heard the statement of the Minister  (Senator Wilson),  I shall vote against the motion if it is pressed to a division. A few weeks ago, at the instance of  Senator Millen,'  the Senate passed a motion on similar lines, and, very shortly afterwards, we had before us a measure to give the Government power to suspend the coasting provisions of the Navigation Act, which really are dealt with in  Senator Ogden's  motion. Even before the passage of that amending bill, the Government had the necessary power to do all that was necessary. In view of the fact that the coasting provisions of the Navigation Act may be suspended at any time by proclamation, what more does  Senator Ogden  desire? 1- want to assure the honorable senator that I am in no way hostile to Tasmania. I desire to see its shipping services maintained. I agree with the Minister  (Senator -Wilson)  that the representatives -of Tasmania in this chamber keep its requirements well before honorable senators.  Senator Payne  said that the authority sought for in this motion would be used only in cases of emergency. I suggest that Tasmania seems always to be in a state of emergency. Reference has been made -in this debate to the reports of the royal commission. Parliament has not had an opportunity yet to consider those reports.  Senator Hays  cannot say that the commission presented a majority report. 
-No, but the honorable senator inferred it. 
A majority do not say so in any recommendations to which they have attached their signatures. Quite a number of reports were presented by that body, and necessarily the whole of them should be considered before any action is taken. It would be as well, in the circumstances, if  Senator Ogden  asked for the discharge of the motion from the notice-paper. If he does not, I shall register my vote against the motion, because, as I have already said, the Government has the power to continue the services, and is doing so. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator J.  B Hayes) adjourned. 
.- I move- 
That in the opinion of the Senate, all grants for road works should be handed over to the' state authorities for expenditure, without conditions, except that M19 money so voted should be economically expended and used for the purpose named. 
That the Government is requested to consider this resolution in connexion with its proposals for future grants for road works. 
Hoad construction and maintenance is one of the most important problems that we have to deal with.  It vitally concerns the development of the Commonwealth. Within the last few years there has been a complete change in our methods  of transport. Railways have been constructed at enormous cost for the purpose of carrying our primary products to market or ports for shipment, but, with the advent of petrol-driven vehicles, much freight which formerly was secured, by the railways is now carried over the roads, with the result that road problems have become exceedingly urgent. For several years the Federal Government has enjoyed a surplus. I know of no better use to which the surplus could be put than that of handing it over to the states for the construction of roads, Until a few years ago roads for light vehicular traffic could be constructed comparatively cheaply, but it is necessary to spend a great deal more money on heavier roads for present-day traffic. We are all agreed that any money available for this purpose should be spent economically. When the first Commonwealth grant was made two years ago the conditions attached to the grant were, in a great many cases, quite unsuitable, and several attempts were made to have them, altered. I have no fault to find with the Federal Government, because, within the limits laid down by the act, it attempted to comply with our requests. It is impossible to get a road policy suitable for the whole of Australia. In Tasmania we have between 6,000 and 7,000 miles of metal roads constructed at considerable: cost. When the first Commonwealth grant was made it was thought that it would solve problems that were then exercising the Government and municipal councils in my state. Unfortunately, as I have said, the conditions attached, to the grant were quite unsuitable. Consequently full advantage was not. taken of die opportunity to secure the money. E cannot speak of the constitution of the various boards controlling road matters in. tlie respective states, but in Tasmania the Main Roads Board comprises representatives of the Government, of motor car owners, and municipal councils. 
No. The municipalities of Tasmania compare with shire councils in some of the other states. At a conference of the Municipal Association of Tasmania recently, the following resolution was carried unanimously: - . 
That, owing to the conditions in Tasmania being  different  from any other state, this conference urges that the strongest representations be made to the Federal Government, through the state government and federal members, to modify the regulations so as to allow 50, .per cent, of the grant to be spent in the reconstruction of existing roads throughout 'the state, for the following reasons: - 
1 ) That owing to the nature of the  coun-  try, long lengths of metalled roads were essential to give access to settlers' selections. Some 7,000 to 8,000 miles have been so COn.structed. These, while suitable for the purpose when constructed were, on account o'f the cost, lightly made, and will not carry the present-day heavy  traffic 
It is quite out of the power pf /the local bodies, or the state government, to .reconstruct, strengthen, or widen the roads ,put of revenue. 
It is evident from the resolution -which. I have just read that, in the opinion of the Municipal Association of Tasmania, the regulations attached to the Commonwealth grants for roads should bo amended. I may state that in Tasmania every sale of even 100 acres of Crown lands carries "with it the implied condition that a metal road shall be made to the land. Between £4,000,000 and £5,000,000 of borrowed money has been spent on roads in Tasmania. They are of light construction, and are quite unsuitable for present-day traffic. If no roads had been made the federal grant would be available, but where the Tasmanian Government has built what may be considered half a road, the money may not be spent there. I have received the following letter from the Tasmanian Minister for Lands and Works,  Mr. J.  Belton, dated the 30th June: - 
Federal Grantfor Roads. 
Dear  Sir, 
As yon are aware, attempts have been made to have the conditions governing the expenditure of the last two federal grants modified in order to suit the requirements of this state. 
As a result of communications which have taken place between the Commonwealth Minister for Works and Railways and myself, he has stated that it is hoped to hold a conference of the state -ministers and himself prior to the next grant being made available. I would appreciate anything that you can do in conjunction with the other Tasmanian members in order to bring this conference about. 
The conditions which would be suitable to Tasmania are as follow :  - 
At least one-half of the funds (a moiety of which is provided by the state) to be expended in improvements to main and other important existing roads, the removal of dangerous portions, and necessary deviations, to avoid present excessive grades. 
The minimum expenditure on cither new work or improvements to existing roads to be reduced from £1,000 to £500. 
You are so well versed in the Tasmanian conditions, that there is no need to elaborate on the reasons which make these modifications necessary. 
I should be glad if you would kindly use your best endeavours to urge  Mr. Hill  to convene the conference suggested at an early date. 
Although when I first advocated the line of action suggested in the foregoing communication, the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  was unable to furnish me with an immediate reply, I did not think that a conference, as suggested, would have the expected result. A conference between the Ministers for Works in the various states and the Federal Minister for Works and Railways does not appeal to me. Each state has its own roads' policy, which is peculiar to its own particular needs. The object should be the attainment not of a common policy, but of the best results from the expenditure of the money available. A few weeks ago when visiting Tasmania I saw sufficient of road construction under the federal scheme to warrant my asking that the money be handed over to the state authorities free of restrictions. The Commonwealth Treasurer is in the position of having taken from the people more money . by way of taxation than he requires, and he has selected this estimable way of returning portion of the excess, to the people. In order to achieve the best results the money should be handed over to the state governments. 
Yes, and they also have local knowledge gained by years of experience. I have no complaint to make as to the ability of the federal officers as engineers, but they cannot be expected to know as much about local conditions as the state officers do. The present dual control is not conducive to the best results. At the invitation of the  chairman  of the council in my own district, I inspected a few days ago some road construction work between Launceston and Scottsdale. After negotiating a number of hairpin bends, and travelling through slush for about 10 miles, we came to the scene of the work being carried out by the federal authorities. It was being done under a qualified overseer, and there was a good gang of men. I saw 90 chains of road that will cost between £2,000 and £4,000, but there were many miles of bad roads to be traversed before reaching this good stretch of highway. The State Government built the road originally, perhaps 40 or 50 years ago, and some ten years ago a deviation was made. The work now in hand is the second deviation, but I could find 20 places in the district where this large sum could be spent to greater advantage than in the construction of one costly stretch of roadway in the. midst of miles of indifferent tracks. I have no doubt that the federal officers will reply that the state officials must bave agreed to the work. The fact is that under the present arrangement it is' impossible to sheet home the responsibility for any mistakes made, but if the whole, expenditure were handed over to the State Government the responsibility could be placed definitely upon its shoulders. I have expended many road grants in Tasmania, and I have a warm place in my heart for municipal and shire councils, for I realize the value of their services to the community. Road construction should be very largely entrusted to these bodies, whose local knowledge and experience specially fit them for that work. I have received a sheaf of telegrams in support of the motion. One is as follows: - 
Lilydale Council supports your motion federal road grant. Conditions in Tasmania much different to mainland. 
Prom Ringarooma I have received the following telegram : - 
My council heartily in accord with your motion  re  federal grant. Conditions Tasmania totally different those prevailing mainland states. Best wishes safe passage through Senate. 
A similar communication has reached me from Portland, Scottsdale, and other towns. From the  president  of the Municipal Association of Tasmania, which represents 49 municipalities, I have received the following : - 
 Every municipality Tasmania hopes your resolution will be carried, and that the Government will give effect thereto. 
Yes, and I assume that the Western Australian Government and the municipal authorities there know more about the building of roads in that state than the federal officers do. In Victoria there is an excellent body known as the Country Roads Board, and if it were entrusted with the  expendi-  "ture of Victoria's ' share of the federal grant, better value for the money would be obtained than if the work were carried out by another authority. 
The members of that board have been very good in supplying information to me, and they certainly know their job. Some of the states have been trying to make bricks without straw. The Victorian Country Roads Board has had a considerable amount of money to spend, and has spent it well. Its work is an earnest of what the Federal Government could expect if it handed its money over without conditions. I have no doubt that it would be equally well expended, and the taxpayers would be satisfied. 
It would have to be handed to the State Governments, for I understand that they are the only authorities with which the Federal Government can deal. It would be much too circuitous for the Government to go to the local governing bodies. The State Governments should call in the assistance of the local governing bodies to help in determining how the money should be spent. 
I would be agreeable to it being spent on construction or reconstruction, but not on repairs. 
Many of our roads were of too light construction in the first place. We have learnt from experience, and are building heavier roads nowadays. In these circumstances it is fair that the grant should be expended on reconstruction work. I feel sure that the Government recognizes that the motion is moved not in a- hostile spirit, but with a desire to see the money economically spent under a system that will make it of the greatest possible value to the states. I do not know whether it mil be in order,  Mr. President,  but I ask permission to amend my motion by omitting the word " future." 

 -(Senator the Hon. T. (Givens). - A motion may be amended by the mover at any time before it is actually stated from the Chair. The honorable senator may ask leave to amend his motion by omitting the word " future," or in any otherway that he desires. 
Leave granted; motion amended accordingly. 
I congratulate the mover of the motion, on the clear and distinct way in which he has advocated the claims of Tasmania. I have not had the opportunity to make myself conversant with Tasmanian conditions, but I am quite able to understand from the honorable senator's speech that conditions there are different in some respects from those which prevail on the mainland. The Government desires to see this money put to the best possible use. It is undeniable, however, that unless some conditions are applied to the grant it would be wrongly used. Although it is well known that the expenditure of ?1 on road work in these days will do very little more than the expenditure of 10s. did a decade ago, the local governing bodies in some of our wealthiest districts have not increased their rates. 
I know of some councils which could keep their roads in a perfectly good condition by imposing a fair rate, but they prefer to appeal to the Government for assistance. 
It is all very well for the honorable senator to say that, but some districts require government assistance. My honorable friend's theory isall right in respect to what he would term the capitalistic section of the community, but the intention of the Government is that this grant shall be used to assist in the development of national roads. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a' later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to a paragraph appearing in the  Age  of 6th August, 1925, re  Mr. Casey,  liaison officer in London ? 
Will the Minister state what is the exact position  Mr. Casey  holds in London, and what is the nature of the duties he is supposed to carry out! 
Has  Mr. Casey  the ambassadorial privileges set out in the paragraph referred to? 
Is it a fact that he is receiving information from British Ministers and others that is not supplied to the High' Commissioner for Australia ? 
Is it the intention of the Government to abolish the position of High Commissioner for Australia? 
The right honorable the Prime Minister supplies the following answers to the honorable senator's questions - 
Yes. 
The position held by this officer is adequately described by the title of liaison officer, He is directly responsible to the Prime Minister, but under the control of the High Commissioner. His duties consist in keeping the Commonwealth Government informed of all developments in foreign affairs which are of interest to it. In order to enable him to carry out the detailed work of collecting this information, it has been arranged with the Imperial Government that he may have access to confidential documents. 
No. 
The liaison officer works in the closest touch with the High Commissioner, and the Government is not aware of any information which is made available to him being withheld from the High Commissioner. 
No. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
When will theRoyal Commission that is inquiring into the effects of federation on the finances of Western Austrafia make a similar examination in respect to Tasmania? 
The right honorable the Prime Minister supplies the following answer to the honorable senator's question: - 
The intention of the Government is to consider the position of Tasmania in conjunction with the consideration of the report of the royal commission on the effect of federation upon the finances of Western Australia when that report has been received. If. however, after consideration of the evidence before this commission, it is found necessary, a separate investigation of Tasmania's position will be undertaken. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon  notice - 
Is it a fact that the Sutherland Dock at Cockatoo Island will require to be extended in order to accommodate at all tides either of the two cruisers now being built in Scotland? 
Is it a fact that the cost of such extension was included in the Australian estimates for the construction of the cruisers? 
Will he give instructions to have such extension proceeded with? 
The honorable the Minister for Defence supplies the following answers to 'the honorable senator's questions : - 
Yes, in length only. 
No. 
The matter is receiving the consideration of the Government. 
asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact that the amending Navigation Act 1925has received the assent of His Majesty the King? 
Was the whole of the amending Bill cabled to the Prime Minister of Great Britain? 
Was the House of Commons in session when the royal assent was given ? 
Before royal assent is given to legislation enacted by this Parliament, is it not necessary, and is it not the practice, to place such legislation on the table of the House of Commons for a certain period ? 
If so, has this been done? 
What was the procedure adopted to obtain the royal assent? 
Is the manner in which the royal assent was obtained legal and constitutional?. 
The replies to the honorable senator's questions are as follow : - 
Yes. 
The whole of the bill was cabled officially to the proper authorities in Great Britain. 
Yos. 
No. 
See answer to No. 4. 
The Bill was reserved by the GovernorGenerai and submitted for the signification of His Majesty's pleasure, which was given by Order in Council dated 24th July, 1925. 
The proper constitutional procedure has been followed. 
asked the Minister for Home and Territories,  wpon notice - 
Has  Dr. Wade  made a recent inspection of oil areas in the south of South Australia; if so, has he furnished a report on the possibilities of oil being discovered there? 
If such report has been furnished, will the Minister make it available to the public? 
An inspection of certain geological areas in the south-east of South Australia was recently made by  Dr. Wade,  but a report has not yet been received from him in regard thereto. 
When the report comes to hand it will be made available for public information with the least avoidable delay. 
When progress was reported last evening I was replying to the objection raised by the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  that my amendment would limit the choice of membership of the proposed provisional council to people resident in the Northern Territory. I stated that, on the contrary, the choice could be from the whole of the people of Australia, and I emphasized that in any democratic community there should not be. a departure from the elective system. My amendment provides for a provisional council, partly elected and partly nominated. Administrative control will still be inthe hands of the Government of the day. The Minister also urged that the amendment would raise the old question of taxation without representation. I do not agree with him. I hope that the committee will give careful consideration to the proposal which I have submitted. 
I did not speak at any length on  Senator Needham's  amendment last evening, because I had already dealt with his proposal when replying to the debate on the second reading, and did not wish to be guilty of what might be regarded as tedious repetition. I hope the honorable senator will not think I was discourteous to him. I cannot accept his amendment. In my opinion, it is quite unreasonable at this stage in the development of the Northern Territory. Let us look at the facts as they are. The budget which has just been presented indicates that the people of the Commonwealth, not the residents of the Northern Territory, are responsible for expenditure incurred in administering the Territory. I suppose there are about 2,000 adults there, as compared with nearly 4,000,000 adults in the whole of Australia. The budget figures show that the total amount of taxation contributed by the people of the Territory is about £25,000, but the deficit in connexion with Northern Territory administration is well over £200,000, which sum has to be made good by the people of Australia. As the bill contemplates a much more active scheme of development, necessarily the expenditure in the future will be very much larger than hitherto. Does  Senator Needhampropose  that the people of the Commonwealth shall find the money and allow a provisional council, to be selected by about 2,000 people in the Northern Territory, to control its expenditure ? 
-Senator Needham really wants to start at what should be the second stage in Northern Territory development. At present there is not sufficient population there to carry on responsible government. We propose to attract people there, and will welcome the day when, as the result of this expected increase in population, we shall be able to hand over the government of the Territory to its residents. It is ridiculous to suggest that the time has arrived for selfgovernment in the Territory. To ensure satisfactory development we must get the right men to control its affairs. There is no certainty that we shall get the best men by a system of popular selection. Members of the proposed provisional council might be elected from all sorts of motives - not necessarily because they were the best men for the position.  Senator Needham,  I take it, would not contend that members of the River Murray Commission should be elected by the people living in the River Murray valley, and yet that commission is an exactly similar body to that proposed in this measure to ensure the development of the Northern Territory. I trust that  Senator Needham  willnot press his amendment. 
The reasons advanced by the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  against the amendment are unsound, to put it mildly. In the  first place he does not properly state the amendment. He would have honorable senators believe that we on this side of the chamber are anxious that the whole of the members of the proposed commission shall be elected by people at present resident in the Northern Territory. That is not so, and the Minister knows it. He also instanced the River Murray Commission, as an argument against the amendment. Possibly the very best men have been appointed to that commission, but I remind the Minister that commissions just as important as the River Murray Commission have been appointed, not by Governments, but by the people of Australia. Members of the Convention that drafted the Constitution under which we legislate were elected by the people of Australia. The people of Australia were entrusted with the election of the men who, in their opinion, were best qualified to frame the Federal constitution. 
I have no doubt that the people there would be able to appoint a commission as competent as the present body. If the Minister were a resident of the Northern Territory, would he not consider it an insult to his  intelligence  to be told that he was not sufficiently educated to take part in the election of the commission ? 
In effect, he says that they are not competent at the present time, and should not be given an opportunity to elect members of the commission. 
When the Labour party comes into its own again, and appoints members from its ranks to governmental positions, it will be time enough for me to say what I will do. Whatever tha Labour party does will certainly be in the best interests of the people. No solid arguments have been advanced against the amendment, except that the time is not ripe for it. I have heard that hackneyed phrase ever since I have been in parlia ment. It was used against the extension of the franchise to the manhood and womanhood of Australia. In my opinion the time is over-ripe for the people of the Northern Territory to be given a voice in the government of their own affairs. 
If they can be trusted with the appointment of half the members of the advisory councils, they should be given a similar privilege in regard to the appointment of the commission. The Minister remarked that if three representatives were appointed by the residents they would have the spending of the moneys of Australia, but I point out that it would be impossible for them to out&gt;vote the three government nominees, for the  chairman,  who would probably be a government representative, would have a casting vote. 
The Minister's argument is very weak. First of all he says that they could carry on at their own sweet will, but, on second thoughts, he realizes that he is wrong. He now says that it would be no use electing them, because they would be out- voted. My desire is to give the territorians an opportunity to take part in the management of their own affairs. I believe that they would do everything possible to select the best men available to act in co-operation with the government nominees, for they are as much interested as any member of this Chamber in the welfare of the Territory. They have waited long and anxiously for something tangible to be done for the country and its people. Who would be more interested in railway and road construction, and in water conservation than the residents themselves ? Certainly that work would be entrusted to the commission of three, to be appointed by the Government, but, after all, those men would be inexperienced in regard to the needs of the country as compared with the local residents, whose mature judgment should be of great assistance.  Senator Kingsmill,  with his happy face and sunny smile, is very familiar with some of the distant parts of Western Australia, and he realizes that some, at least, of the residents in the outback portion of - that state know more of its needs than Ministers in charge of departments responsible for works carried on there. I have no doubt that he has found the advice tendered by the local residents veryhelpful at times. Australia professes to be a democratic community, but according to the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  there are some people in Australia who are differently constituted from those in the various states, and if they were allowed to take a hand in the government of the Northern Territory, they would be extravagant with public money. What the people of the states are most concerned about is the great waste that has occurred in the Northern Territory. The most important step to take in the direction of eliminating that waste is to establish at least a semi-democratic form of government there. With a commission consisting of an equal number of government nominees and members elected by the residents, and with a  chairman  having a casting vote, the interests of the Commonwealth and of the territorians themselves would be equally conserved. 
.- If anything could have shaken my resolution to vote against the amendment it would have been the speech to which I have just listened. Unfortunately for the honorable senator, however, my determination is founded upon ground which is too solid to be shaken. Until the people of the Territory are in a position to make a more proportionate contribution to the revenue which has to be spent there than is either possible or probable in the immediate future, I must favour the form of government set out in the bill. I thank  Senator Findley  for his kind and touching references to myself. You,  Mr. Chairman,  know how much a speech like that brings home to one the everlasting truth of the lines written by a former poet-laureate - 
Kind hearts are more' than coronets, 
And simple faith than Norman blood. 
The honorable senator's kind heart is evidenced by his particularly agreeable remarks to myself.  His  simple faith is indicated by his desire and, indeed, his anxiety, to hand over to a handful of people in a very vast territory, which we hope will one day become another state, a considerable measure of control of the finances which have to be spent there, but which are contributed by persons in other parts of Australia. I am sorry that I have to announce myself to be unshaken by the eloquence of the honorable senator. I shall vote for the clause as it stands. 
It is unfortunate that, no matter how strong the arguments are, that we advance against the proposals of the Government, tney appear to carry no weight with honorable senators opposite. Our words are as seed sown on stony ground. This is not because our views are feebly advanced, but solely because of pure cussedness on the part of the Government and their supporters. It is astonishing and somewhat startling to find that honorable senators opposite, who profess to be democrats, are unwilling to give the 4,000 Australians who reside in Northern Australia any voice whatever in the election of the council which will practically govern them. They will be able to exercise only a microscopic influence on this body, through the people who residein the north-east corner of Western Australia and in the western portion of Queensland, which is to be included in the proposed North Australian area. It cannot be denied that the people who live in Northern Australia know better than any one else how the money should be spent. I say that, with all due respect to the men in Melbourne, Sydney, and possibly in Adelaide, who will be appointed to this commission. The residents undoubtedly ought to have a vote in the election of this commission. 
I certainly consider that the residents of the Federal Capital Territory, who are obliged to pay taxes, and who will be much more heavily taxed in the future, should have a vote in the election of the commission. At any rate, they should have representation on it. Does any one imagine that the best possible commission has been appointed to control and develop the Federal Capital Territory? 
(Senator Newland). - I ask the honorable senator not 'to discuss the Federal Capital Commission, but to confine his remarks to the clause and the amendment. 
I- must ask honorable senators to address the Chair. 
I must ask the honorable senator to confine his remarks to the question before the Chair. I have already given him a Rood deal of latitude. 
Notwithstanding the levity introduced into the debate, which is at times helpful, a vital principle is involved in the amendment I have submitted, the purport of which I do not think the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  has fully grasped.  His  first contention was that if we gave these people the right to elect members to the provisional council, there would be a possibility of money being wasted. That is not the object of the amendment. Even if it were proposed to give the council control in the expenditure of money, it must be remembered that those who would be elected would be men whose character could not be questioned, and who had made it possible for the Territory to be occupied. The Minister has, in effect, cast a reflection upon the intelligence and ability of worthy settlers. As regards the spending capacity of the provisional council, the Minister did not put the case clearly before the committee. Any one who peruses the amendment will see that a majority of the members of the provisional council will he directly responsible to the government of the day. The proposal is that three shall be elected by the residents in the area controlled by the commission, and three nominated by the GovernorGeneral in Council. From, the financial point of view, there is a further safeguard, as the  chairman  will be a nominee of the Governor-General. It has also been stated that the actions of the elected representatives to the council, if this amendment were adopted, would possibly be influenced by a desire to be re-elected at some later date; but that could also be said against the members nominated by the Governor-General. This is too important a proposal to allow political bias or party feeling to intervene. It is our duty to improve the hill wherever possible, and this is one way in which that can be done. The Minister also stated that in perhaps the near future the area under discussion may be subdivided into one, two, or three states, vested with responsible government, and that under the pro visions of the bill the residents in the Territory will become acquainted with the system of responsible government. Many of the settlers in the Territory have been residents in other parts of the Commonwealth, and are already familiar with our present system, and if my amendment were adopted effect could more readily be given to the Minister's suggestion. I might have gone further, and have suggested that all the members of the provisional council should be elected ; but, realizing the difficulty surrounding the problem with which we are endeavouring to grapple, I thought it better to commence with three elected members. If the Minister is so strongly opposed to this amendment of clause 6, why is he supporting clause 44, which deals with the advisory council, and which reads - 
There shall be an Advisory Council for North Australia to advise the GovernmentResident in relation to any matter affecting North Australia (but not including any matter relating to the powers of the commission or any matter  voider  the control of the commission), including advice as to the making of new ordinances or the repeal or amendment of existing ordinances. 
The Advisory Council shall consist of the Government Besident, and of four members, two of whom shall be appointed by the Minister, and shall hold office, during good behaviour, for a period of three years, and be eligible for re-appointment, and two of whom shall, subject to this act, be elected for a period of three years, and be eligible for reelection. 
That provision embodies the principle I am endeavouring to introduce in clause 6. Possibly the minister will say that the advisory council will not have the direct control of the expenditure of money, but on its advice money will be spent. If the principle of a partly elected and partly nominated council is acceptable in one instance, why is it not in another? It has been suggested that when the Seat of Government. Administration Bill was before the Senate no attempt was made by honorable senators on this side of the chamber to give the residents of the Federal Territory an opportunity to elect one member of the commission. Even if such a suggestion were not then made, it is not now too late to make improvements. The council will not have the power to spend money without the authority of the Government. Elected representatives will not be chosen solely from residents in the Territory; persons resident in any portion of the Commonwealth may be elected. As the people should have the right to say who their representatives on the council shall be, I trust the amendment which has been so ably supported by honorable senators on this side of the chamber will be adopted. 
I support the amendment. After listening to the arguments adduced this morning, I am more than ever convinced that if the Government accepts the proposal submitted by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  it will be doing a great deal in the interests of the residents of the Territory. The franchise is valued by the Australian people, and when we grant the franchise to only one section of the people, a reflection is cast upon the whole community. The people in the Northern Territory do not enjoy the franchise, and have not the liberties to-day that they had when the Territory was under the control of the South Australian Parliament. In those days the Northern Territory sent two representatives to the South Australian Parliament, who had full voting power, and whose advice was always of great value in the South Australian Parliament. These representatives who were conversant with the conditions in the Territory were able to enlighten members of the South Australian Parliament who had never been there. Under Commonwealth control men with no experience of the conditions that exist outside the cities have been sent to the Northern Territory to administer and develop the country. If the amendment were agreed to, and three representatives were elected by the residents of the Territory, they would prove an acquisition to the commission, because most surely they would be practical men, and would voice the interests of those who live there. Who should know better than the people who live there the conditions of the Territory and its requirements ? The Government would still retain control of the administrate on, whilst at th)e same time the people of the Territory would have some voice in the government of that part of Australia in which they live. An attempt has been made to draw an analogy between this proposed commission and the Federal Capital Commission.No such analogy exists. This proposed commission will be charged with the development of one-fifth of the total area of Australia, whilst the Federal Capital Commission has the administration of a mere 900 square miles, in which not a great deal in the way of development is necessary, and from which industries will be more or less excluded. Yet honorable senators have the temerity to compare Canberra, which will be a home for the Houses of the Commonwealth Parliament and its administrative offices, with hundreds of thousands of square miles  of territory which can and will be developed if properly administered and managed ! I am pleased at the absence of a party spirit from this debate. This matter is above party politics. The Northern Territory is a most important part of Australia. Prior to federation, when practical men who understood the country were charged with its administration, a fair amount of development took place. A line of railway was constructed  through portion of it, and a telegraph line was erected from. Adelaide to Port Darwin. Since the Commonwealth has had control, - very little in the way of development has taken place. I suggest that one of the reasons for that is that  the Territory has not had a representative link between its people and those by whom it has been governed.  Senator Guthrie  referred to the giving of the vote to the aborigines. He and the Government propose, by this measure, to place the people of the Northern Territory on exactly the same plane in regard to the franchise as that which is occupied by the aborigines of Australia. They will be on the same plane as restricted aliens. Although they live in a portion of Australia, they have not at present a voice in the government of Australia. They number many thousands, yet they have' no more voice in the government of this country than people who do not live here. I appeal to the Government to give serious consideration to the amendment, because it has been put forward in good faith. We on this side are anxious to develop the Northern Territory. I do not doubt the sincerity of the statement that the Government, also, is anxious to develop it. What we have to decide is the best way in which that can be brought about. A commission upon which there were three men elected by the people of the Territory would, in my opinion, be more successful than one that did not have upon it any such representative. 
I support the amendment because of the democratic principle that underlies it. We boast of the free and broad franchise that the people of Australia enjoy, yet it appears that the Government is not prepared to extend that franchise to the people of the Northern Territory. It has been truly said that those people are represented in the Federal Parliament. That representative, however, has not the right to vote. If v.e give them a voice in the government of their country, we shall only be according them a privilege that everybody should enjoy. When the Territory was controlled by South Australia it had in the South Australian Parliament two representatives, who enjoyed the same privileges as those that were enjoyed by members representing any other part of the state. If it is right to give the franchise to the people in other parts of Australia, why should it be withheld from those who reside in the Northern Territory ? The Government would not. lose control, as it would still have a majority of its representatives on the commission; but the people of the Territory would have the opportunity to express their wishes at meetings of the commission. Who should know better than the people of the Territory the best means for developing it? We should depart from the principle of appointing to these administrative positions men who have lived only in the cities of the Commonwealth. The Government may intend to&gt; appoint men who live in the Territory, but it has not stated that that is its  intenion.  If it is,  then our argument is fully answered. We cannot expect the government of the Territory to be in the best interests of the people, unless we appoint to these positions men who have some knowledge of the country. Is the Government afraid that if it appoints residents of the Territory it will disappoint some ambitious men who now live in our cities ; or does it believe that the people who live in the Territory would not govern it rightly? Why not provide in the bill that those who are appointed to the commission must have been residents of the Territory for at least three years ? It will not be possible to achieve success if men are appointed who do not understand the conditions with which they have to deal. I desire that the Northern Territory shall progress. 
That will not be possible unless it is more closely peopled. A greater population would be the best asset we could have from the point of view of defence, and that can be obtained only by giving good living conditions to those who go there. Population will always go where there are good conditions. I urge the Government to give the people of the Territory the right to elect three members to this commission. 
I support the amendment. I have no doubt that the proposition of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  is a step in the right direction. It would be deplorable were we to deny to the people of the Northern Territory the right to a voice in the government of the country in which they live. It has been said that they have a representative in another place. That is quite true ; but it must not be forgotten that he has not the right to record a vote upon any matter that is brought forward. I agree with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that it would be wise to appoint to the commission men who are acquainted with the conditions that exist in the country that they will be called upon to govern. It would be absurd to appoint men who have never, seen the country, and who know nothing of its conditions. I hope that the committee will accept the view that people now resident in the Northern Territory are entitled to a vote in connexion with its administration. When the Territory wa3 under the control, of South Australia itwas represented by two members in the South Australian Parliament. If it was right then to give it parliamentary representation, it is right now to give it representation on this commission. We should do all we can to encourage the residents of the Territory to come forward and play some part in its government. I stand for the franchise. 
They would only have one vote. 
No. I said that they had two members in the South Australian Parliament. 
I may answer that question by asking why should people living in the metropolitan area control the Northern Territory, which they have never seen ? 
I hope, at all events, that the amendment will be carried, so that the people living in the Territory will have some voice in its administration. 
. -Five years is certainly not a lengthy' period, but as the appointment of the commission will be an innovation, so far as the Territory is concerned, and as its members will have to make good,' it might be advisable to fix a limit of three years. Re-appointment should depend upon the manner in which members discharge their duties. . The period of three years is fixed in connexion with many other Commonwealth and state appointments of. this nature. There is no doubt that if the members of the commission prove, their fitness, during that period, they will be re-appointed. If, on the other hand, they are appointed for a period of five years and prove to be unfit for their duties, it may be difficult to remove them. It is not advisable to make long appointments, especially for work of this nature. There is no more reason for a term of five years in this case than in the case of members of the other branch of the legislature. Members of another place are elected for a period of three years, ' and they are active during their term of service, in order to make good, so that the people will re-elect them. What is good enough for a representative chamber should be sufficient for a nominee commission. The choice would not be restricted if we made such an amendment. I believe it would be beneficial from every point of view. I move - 
That the word " five," line 2, be left out, with a view to insert in lieu thereof the word " three." . 
[12.351. - I think that it will be difficult enough to obtain men for these positions even for a term of five years. Obviously, men who would be. worth their salt are now following some business avocation, for which they are well paid, and if we ask them to accept appointments for a period of five years, with no guarantee of re-appointment, many of them will not be prepared to sacrifice their present positions. By fixing a three years' term, the only men we should induce to apply for the positions would be those who had nothing to sacrifice. 
We should not overlook the fact that members of another place have sacrificed a great deal so far as their business callings are concerned, and they are required to face the electors every three years. Surely the other branch of the legislature is at least of as much importance as the proposed commission. It seems to me that the shorter the period the greater would be the incentive to the members of the commission to make good. If they were appointed for five years they might be inclined to be lazy. The amendment is sound, and not in any way hostile. 
.- The Minister is given power under this clause to suspend a commissioner or acting commissioner for certain reasons specified. The clause goes on to say that within seven days after the suspension, if Parliament is then sitting, or, if the Parliament is not then sitting, within seven days after the next meeting of the Parliament, a statement of the grounds of suspension shall be laid before both Houses. In the case of the Minister suspending a commissioner and making a statement to Parliament, will the suspended commissioner have any means of defending himself ? Is there any provision in this clause or elsewhere in the bill for a suspended officer to present his case to Parliament? It would not be quite a fair thing for Parliament to decide such a matter on the  exparte  statement of the Minister. 
The reasons for which a Minister may suspend a commissioner, or an acting commissioner, are inability, ineffciency, or misbehaviour, or neglect or failure to carry out the provisions of the act or the regulations made pursuant to it. 
That is so. If a commissioner or any acting commissioner is suspended for any other than these reasons, he has a remedy at law. He is also protected by reason of the fact that within 60 days after the report of such a suspension is made to Parliament an address may be presented praying for the restoration of the officer concerned. The whole matter would be thoroughly ventilated. In my experience it has never been difficult to get a member of parliament to state any grievance in Parliament. The full facts would undoubtedly be submitted to the members of both Houses, no matter how forlorn, desperate, or hopeless the case might be. ' 
I know that every citizen has the right to appeal to this, the highest tribunal in the land, but I wish to know whether, when the Minister placed before Parliament, in accordance with this provision, a full statement of the grounds of suspension, hewould also present the case ofthe suspended officer. 
So long as there will be an opportunity for a full discussion of the matter it will be all right. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 12 (Office of commissioner, how vacated). 
This clause provides,  inter alia,  that a commissioner or acting commissioner shall be deemed to have vacated his office if - (b)he is wilfully absent from duty for a period of fourteen consecutive clays, except ou leave granted by the Minister (which leave tha Minister is hereby authorized to grant), or becomes permanently incapable of performing bis duties. 
I cannot see any necessity for the insertion of the word " wilfully." 
I still cannot see any reason for inserting the word " wilfully." 
The. word appears in other statutes, and I suppose, because the Government and the draftsmen say it is necessary, it must also appear here. Personally, I see no necessity for its insertion. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 13 to 15 agreed to. 
Clause 16 - 
The commission shall not, without the sanction of the Minister - 
create any office carrying remuneration in excess of Five hundred pounds per annum; 
appoint any person to any such office; or 
increase the remuneration of any officer to an amount exceeding Five hundred pounds per annum. 
I suggest to the Minister that the amount of £500 mentioned in two places in this clause be increased to, say, £600. A salary of £500 a year is not large as salaries go in the Northern Territory, and it appears to me that we shall unnecessarily hamper the commission if we oblige it to submit for ministerial sanction every proposed appointment which carries a salary of more than £500 a year. 
I should like to see the amount increased to £700, but I certainly think it ought to be £600. 
The object of this clause is to enable the Government to retain an oversight of the appointment of all the more important executive officers, by making such appointments subject to ministerial approval. The clause covers not only the appointment of officers, but also the creation of positions. If, however, the honorable senator thinks it desirable to move to increase the amount to £600 I shall not object. 
One cannot help remarking how readily the Minister accepts suggestions from honorable senators on his own side of the committee. I give place to no honorable senator in my desire to see the best men appointed to public positions, but I believe that we shall be more likely to attain that end by providing that the appointments shall be subject to ministerial approval. I consider that the clause should be left as it is. It is perfectly clear, and it gives the commission ample authority. 

 Sitting suspended from 1 to 2 p.m. 

As the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  has undoubtedly given more consideration to the measure than I have, I do not intend to press the amendment which I suggested earlier in the debate. We hope that only men of outstanding ability will be appointed to the commission, as the whole success of the scheme is dependent upon the calibre of those selected to undertake this important work. We should, however, within the limitations of the expenditure that Parliament sanctions, give them a comparatively free handto carry out their work in the way that they consider best. At present it is impossible to say what the developments will be, and there may be some reason for keeping a check over the commission in regard to the more important appointments that it may be necessary to make from time to time. We do not know what will be the effect of this system which the Government proposes to inaugurate under this bill, and it may be that this provision may hamper the operations of the commissioners. As they will be on the spot they should be the best judges of the class of officers required, particularly for ordinary routine work. I shall not press my suggestion, but will leave it to the Minister to decide. 
I take a different view of the clause from that submitted by  Senator Greene.  As the Government is taking the responsibility of appointing the members of the commission and of fixing their remuneration, it should also determine the salaries to be paid to the officers of the commission. 
No. It has often been said that Parliament should not be made a. tribunal for fixing the salaries and wages of government employees, and that is a contention with which the Minister has agreed. I think the clause should be amended to read- 
The commission shall not, without the sanction of the Minister - 
create any office; 
appoint any person to any such office; or 
determine the remuneration of any officer. 
Under such a provision 'the commission could not create an office, appoint an officer or determine the remuneration of an officer without the sanction of the Minister. 
I am in favour of leaving out the amount altogether. My suggestion might meet with the approval of  Senator Greene. 
-I do not think so. It is admitted that the members of the commission should be men of experience possessing sufficient ability to satisfactorily carry out the important duties which they are to perform, and if that is the case, they should have the assistance of a highlycompetent staff. The clause in its present form gives the commission too much power in the matter of remuneration. The amount of salary should be deleted so that the Government would have the power to determine the salary of all officers of the commission. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 17 - (1.) Subject to this act, the powers of the commission shall extend to the following matters in relation to the development of so much of the Territory as is situated north of the twentieth parallel of South Latitude (in this act referred to as " the prescribed part of the Territory ") : - 
the maintenance and operation of rail ways ; 
the construction and maintenance of roads; 
the erection of telegraph and telephone lines ; 
water boring and conservation; 
ports and harbours; and 
such other matters in relation to the development of the Territory as are specified in any regulation made under this act. (5.) In the exercise of its powers under this act the commission shall utilize as far as possible the services of officers of the Commonwealth Public Service. 
I move- 
That after the word " harbours," paragraph (e), the word "mining" be inserted. 
I have already referred to the division of control which I consider a weakness in this measure. The Minister  (Senator Pearce)  has met my objection, to a certain extent by pointing out that the Government Resident is to have only matters of routine under his direction. Possibly that may be desirable in the inaugural stages, but the control of mining operations should be taken from the Government Resident and placed under the commission. The Minister previously stated that certain services, such as police, education, mines, fisheries, protection of aborigines, and other minor ones, would not be dealt with by the commission. As it has frequently been stated that the possibilities of successful mineral developments in the Northern Territory are very promising, the control of mining should be under the commission and not under the Government 
Resident. ' The discovery of a payable mineral deposit would lead to the employment of more labour than could be provided on quite a  number  of pastoral properties, and as the mining industry may assume considerable proportions I trust the Minister will agree to the amendment. 
This matter was given a very great deal of consideration. At first sight it might appear that mining matters are somewhat on a par with those relating to land, and should be placed under the control of a developmental commission. A little further consideration, however, will show that that is not so. The matters to be handed over to the commission are the maintenance and operation of railways; the construction and maintenance of roads; the erection of telegraph and telephone lines; water boring and conservation; and ports and harbors. All of those matters will involve the carrying out of definite works. The Government does not engage in mining operations; it is not responsible for the sinking of a shaft, the erection of poppet heads, or the installation of a battery. Those are the functions of private enterprise. The Government appoints mining wardens merely to administer the law. It may also subsidize a company to put down" a shaft. No developmental work in relation to mining is undertaken by the Government, and it is not considered advisable to saddle the commission with a lot of mining administration. The commission will have to provide roads, railways, and water supply for an area which is considered suitable for mining development. The purely administrative services should be left to the Government Resident. We do not want the attention of the commisson to be diverted from the actual work of development to the routine work of administration. 
I think that the amendment is worthy of consideration. The Minister has stated that the control of mining involves merely administrative work, and that it would divert unnecessarily the activities of the commission. In Papua, one of the officers is described as " Director of Lands, Mines, and Agriculture." I refer to  Mr.  Stanisforth  Smith. 
This commission will develop into an administrative body. There cannot be development without administration. The argument used by the Minister could be adduced also against the other matters that it is proposed to place under the control of the commission. The maintenance and operation of railways involve administration in addition to development. 
The commission may be called upon to add to the length of railway communication in the Territory. It would be idle for the Minister to contend that the existing railway will be the only one in the Territory. How can that country be developed if new railways, or branches from the existing line, are not constructed.- New roads will have to be provided, and that work will necessitate administration. All the other duties of the commission also will involve administration. Having listened the other day to you,  Mr. Chairman,  stating the possibilities of mining, ohe wonders why that matter has been excluded from the powers of the commission. I cannot see how it would in any way hamper the commisson or divert its attention from more necessary work. I think that the amendment is a good one, and should be agreed to. 
.- The Minister and I look at this matter from different angles. He regards it from the bureaucratic, routine point of view, whilst I have in mind the wider aspect of development. I am thinking of the question that confronted the Queensland Government when the Mount Morgan Gold Mining Company sought to construct a feeder railway from Many Peaks to the main line, and arrangements were entered into for the carriage of ore at a given rate. I am thinking also of concessions that have been made to people who initiated big mining ventures. These are important questions with which the commission should be called upon to deal. 
There will be concessions in other directions. I still think that the exclusion of mining from the powers of the commission is a weakness, and that the bill would be improved if it were included. I should like the Minister to accept the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
 I move - 
That the following words be inserted after the word " Service," sub-clause (5) - " the North Australia Public Service and the Central Australia Public Service." 
The clause provides that the commission must utilize the services of the members of the Public Service in the Northern Territory. At present the administration of the land laws is carried out by the police, and as the commission will have control of the land, it is necessary that it should, wherever possible, utilize these officers instead of appointing other officials to deal with land matters. 
No. The commission may want work carried out at a place at which it has not an officer. This will enable it to utilize the services of any officer of the Commonwealth, Public Service who happens to be stationed at that place; such, for instance, as a telegraph linesman. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses18 and 19 agreed to. 
Clause 20- 
The commission may, subject to the approval of the Governor-General, make by-laws, not inconsistent with this act or with any regulation made under this act, or with any ordinance made in pursuance of the Northern Territory (Administration) Act 1910, prescribing all matters which appear to it to be necessary or convenient, for carrying out or giving effect to any power conferred by this act upon the commission, and in particular for prescribing penalties not exceeding Fifty pounds or imprisonment for three months for  any  contravention of the by-laws. 
Amendment (by SenatorPearce) agreed to - 
That after " 1910 " the following words be inserted, " or with any regulation made under any such ordinance." 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 21 (Preliminary investigation of proposed railway route). 
I realize the hopelessness of attempting to amend any clause in this measure, but I desire to draw attention to the delay that will occur in the development of the Territory under the provisions of this clause. Here are some of those provisions - 
If the commission  is  of opinion that the construction of any railway in north Australia is desirable,  it  shall  so  report  to  the Minister. 
Upon receipt of any such report, the Minister may refer the matter to the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner for the purpose of having investigations, inspections and preliminary surveys made of the route of the proposed railway. 
The Commonwealth Railways Commissioner shall supply  to the  Minister,  if  required, such plans, reports, estimates,  and  information generally in respect of any proposed railway route in north Australia,  as the  Minister requires, or as will, in  the opinion of  the commissioner, be of service  to the  Minister. 
This roundabout method of doing business has been in existence for a number of years in connexion with Northern Territory administration, and has been responsible for much of the stagnation which' we all deplore. We are now launching out upon a new scheme. We are supposed to be turning over a new leaf, and yet we propose to "repeat the mistakes of the past by placing upon the new leaf the same marks that blotted the leaf which we are supposed to be turning over. 
Assuming that Parliament had authorized the expenditure, I would like to give the commission full power to carry out surveys and get on with the work. 
We are not handling this matter in the proper way. Why should not the commission be given full authority to do what it thinks is best for the development of the Territory ? 
The Government, so we are told, is " wallowing " in cash. It does not know what to do with its surpluses. According to the budget statement, it is giving doles to every section of the community. I am quite certain that the commission will very soon get together a large and costly staff. If we are to have development on satisfactory lines in the Northern Territory we should not allow financial considerations to weigh with us. If, in the matter of railway construction, the commission were given authority to utilize money voted by Parliament, it should be in a position to have trial surveys made, and, if satisfied as to the route, acting of course on the advice of its expert  officers,  it should have authority to go on with the work without delay. With all due respect to the present Railways Commissioner, I think the commission should be autonomous in regard to railway proposals for the Northern Territory. We may anticipate that it will have the confidence of Parliament, and that its members will be paid salaries commensurate with the importance of their duties. Why, then, should not it be entrusted with full responsibility?  Senator Thompson,  I am sure, would not approve of all this circumlocution in his business undertakings. 
.- I listened with surprise to the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham).  If there is one thing for which the National party has been condemned by the Labour party during the last few years it has been this delegation of authority to boards and commissions. On every available opportunity members of the Labour party have challenged this Government and its supporters with handing over to boards and commissions functions which, they contend, properly belong to Parliament. Now the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in this chamber suggests that the commission to be appointed to administer the Northern Territory should have full authority to build railways without reference to Parliament. 
The honorable senator gave me. the impression that that was in his mind. When I asked him, by interjection, if he were prepared to give the commission the right to carry out surveys, he said he was, and then added that the commission should have authority to " get on with the work " without reference to the Minister or Parliament. If to "get on with the work" doesnot mean authority to build railways, then I. am afraid I do not understand the King's English: 
And properly so, too. I am not prepared to hand over to a commission rights which Parliament alone should exercise with regard to the construction of railways. The suggestion of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, if adopted, would create a dangerous precedent. I am really surprised that  Senator Needham,  who with other members of his party has criticized the Government for having vested certain authority in boards and commissions, should now come along with what is certainly the most extravagant suggestion I have ever heard made in this chamber. I am wondering if the agreement recently arrived at between the Shipping Board and a certain industrial organization has converted the honorable senator to his new view-point. I do not know whether or not he speaks for the whole of his party, but his suggestion represents a remarkable change of front. 
 In addition to the objections which  Senator Foll  has raised to  Senator Needham's  suggestion, there is this further objection. If the commission is to have authority to order the trial survey of a proposed new railwa route, and also to construct the line, it will need an extensive staff of engineers, surveyors,  draftsmen, and other officials; It may be a considerable time before it is in a position to construct a railway line, yet if  Senator Needham's  proposal is adopted it will be necessary to keep an expensive staff together. We say that, in the interests of economy and efficiency, the work should be done by the existing staff of the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner. 

 Senator NEEDHAM (Western Australia) [2.431. - I wish to disabuse  Senator Foil's  mind of the impression that, in this matter, I am speaking for honororable senators on this side of the chamber. This is not a party measure. I am voicing my personal opinion as a member of the committee. I do not think that  Senator Foll  would intentionally  misrepresent me, but I should like to refresh his memory and make my position clear. I said that the provisional council should be endowed with a certain sum of money by this Parliament - I think I mentioned £10,000,000 or £15,000,000- and that it should have authority to go on with developmental works that it considered to be necessary. 
The clause provides for a roundabout method of dealing with railway construction. First of all, the commission may report to the Minister that, in its opinion, the construction of a certain railway is desirable. 
A commission specially appointed for the particular purpose would surely  go  into matters of detail before making a recommendation to the Minister for the construction of a railway. On receipt of the report of the commission that the construction of a certain railway is desirable the Minister, under the bill, must forward that report to the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner. He, in turn, makes investigations, and reports to the Minister, who must then forward to the North Australian Commission the report so received. This certainly does not appear to be a businesslike method. It will entail a lot of unnecessary expense. 
I very much doubt it. The railways of the Commonwealth are not authorized in this way. 
Not at all. The construction of railways is not entrusted to commissions. In the Victorian State Parliament there is a Railways Standing Committee, which takes evidence, and from time to time makes recommendations; but it does not follow that Parliament approves of them. 
Of course, work of that nature is not entrusted to a committee; but it must be remembered that the proposed commission will be appointed because of the fitness of its members for the duties allotted to them. They arp to be specially qualified to deal with railway and other works. 
I am astonished at the statements by  Senator Needham.  Last session, both 
Senators Needham and Findley complained of the powers to be given to boards and commissions.  Senator Needham  deprecated the appointment of so many commissions, which, he said, took from Parliament powers which it alone should exercise. It would be most extravagant to require the commission to have a special staff of surveyors to report on railway and other works, for there would not be sufficient works in progress in the Northern Territory to keep them fully occupied. The Railways Standing Committee of the Victorian Parliament occupies a similar position to that of the Federal Public Works Committee. When a question is referred to the committee for report, plans have already been prepared, and Parliament is guided by the recommendations of the committee. 
It is true that I have opposed the appointment of many commissions, and I shall probably do so again. I objected to the appointment of this particular body; but I hope that I am sufficiently reasonable to realize that I must bow to the inevitable. Sub-clause 5 of clause 21 states - 
For the purpose of carrying .out his. duties under this section, the Commissioner shall have and may exercise any of the powers conferred on him by Part V. of the Commonwealth Railways Act 1917, in relation to the construction of new railways. 
I find, on turning to Part V. of the Commonwealth Railways Act 1917, that section 58, sub-section 1, reads - 
Thu Commissioner shall, when so directed by tlie Minister, or as may be required for the purpose of supplying information to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public  Works, have investigations, inspections, and preliminary surveys, made of any proposed mil way route. 
That shows the contradictory nature of this bill, for under a later clause a proposal, to construct a railway in North Australia, no matter what the cost may be. will not be referred to the Public Works Committee. 
The commission does not take the place of the committee at all. I desire it to be given a chance to develop North Australia; but I am afraid that the bill will seriously hamper its operations. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 22 (Procedure for authorization of construction of railways). 
 I desire to secure the insertion of a clause providing that all railways constructed in the Northern Territory shall be on the standard gauge of 4. ft  Si  inches. Australia already has three railway gauges. Queensland, Western Australia, and South Australia have the 3-ft. 6-in. system in operation, New South Wales the 4-ft. 8J-in., and Victoria and South Australia the 5-ft..3-in. We shall make a great mistake if we perpetuate the 3-ft. 6-in. gauge in the Northern Territory. When the population there increases and the western portion of Queensland becomes more thickly settled, great difficulties will occur in handling traffic between Darwin by way of the Gulf and down to Bourke in New South Wales if the railway gauge in the Territory is 3 ft. 6 in. We have an opportunity now to lay down the future policy. In view of the opinions of some honorable senators on this subject I am astonished that they agreed to construct the Kyogle to South Brisbane line on the 4-ft. 8£-in. gauge. 
I do; although I suppose that years will pass before many tunnels will be required there. I trust that we shall not repeat in the Territory the serious blunder that is being made at present in the Kyogle to South Brisbane line, of providing only single tunnels. While it is quite true that all proposals for railway construction in the Territory will be submitted to Parliament, they will doubtless come before us with a recommendation from the commission, and honorable members may be reluctant to depart from that recommendation, feeling that the commission is better informed on the subject than they are. I urge honorable senators to look at this matter in a broad way. I suppose that a good many Western Australians, and probably South Australians also, were annoyed that the east-west line was constructed on the 4-ft. 8½-in. gauge, but that is now the recognized standard gauge throughout the world. All the railways of the United States of America, Great Britain, France, and, I believe, Germany and other parts of Europe, are of this gauge. I cannot understand why South Australia and Victoria persist in building railways of the 5-ft. 3-in. gauge when they know that ultimately they must be converted to the standard gauge. If we at once adopt the standard gauge in the Northern Territory the locomotives and rolling-stock used on the New South Wales railway system and on the transcontinental line will be available for use there, whereas if we adopt the 3-f t. 6-in. gauge this rollingstock will not be available. I move - 
That after the word " railway," sub- clause  (a),  the following words be inserted : - "of the standard. gauge of 4 ft. 8½ in." 
It is absolutely ridiculous that we should do anything to add to Australia's break of gauge difficulties, but apparently the Government intends to permit additional 3-ft. 6-in. railways to be built. We have commenced to unify our gauges - I look upon the building of the Kyogle to South Brisbane railway as the first move in that direction - and we should certainly continue the policy in the Northern Territory. 
I am sure the honorable senator has not contemplated the consequences of his amendment. Both the railway lines already constructed in the Northern Territory are of the 3-ft. 6-in. gauge. If the honorable senator's amendment were accepted and the commission desired later to link up these two lines it would be obliged to use the 4-ft.8½-in. gauge. I must say that that is a brilliant proposition. I could understand the honorable senator introducing a motion for the conversion of the existing lines to the 4-ft.  8½-in  gauge, but until that is done it would be foolish for us to limit all future constructions to that gauge. Another objection to the proposal is that it might seriously hinder development. The commission may consider the building of light lines of even a 2-ft. 6-in. gauge highly desirable to develop particular districts, but the adoption of this amendment would render that course impossible. The proposal is so ridiculous that I do not think I need discuss it further. 
While I am not prepared to go as far as  Senator J.  Grant, I feel that it might be desirable for us to provide that the commission shall state in its report the gauge of any railway that it recommends. 
I believe in the unification of our railways on the 4-ft. 8½-in. gauge; but I confess that there is something in the point made by the Minister that the commission may find it advisable to construct lines of a narrower gauge than even 3 ft. 6 in. 
The Minister completelyfails to realize that the work of railway construction in the Northern Territory so far is practically negligible. The scraps of line from Port Augusta to Oodnadatta and from Darwin to Newcastle Waters are inconsequential details compared with the long stretches of railway that must necessarily be built in the Territory in the years tocome. No one knows that better than the Minister himself. Honorable senators generally should realize that we are dealing with an area of more than 500,000 square miles. I do not know whether it is intended to construct a line from the East- West railway towards Newcastle Waters, but Iunderstand that certain matters in relation to the route have beenunder consideration. If this is so, I ask the Minister if it is the intention to construct such a line on the 3-ft. 6-in. gauge. 
Progress reported. 
.- I ask the leader of the Government in the Senate whether he can say what action the Government proposes to take in connexion willi the requests made by persons interested in the cotton-growing industry ? 
.  - At present the Commonwealth Government, in conjunction with the governments of the states in which cotton is grown, is guaranteeing a certain price, which is determined according to the grade of cotton. Representations have been made to tbe Commonwealth Government by those interested in the industry that, instead of a guaranteed price, the Government should introduce the bounty system. It has been represented that by doing so a certain amount of government control, which is necessary under the present system, could be obviated with advantage to the industry. The Government has given these representations consideration, and is sympathetically disposed towards placing the cotton industry under the bounty system, as has been done with certain other industries. 
No; it will apply only to cotton-growers. Obviously, before the bounty system can be put into operation the amount of the bounty and the conditions under which it should be paid have to be determined, and under existing legislation, an investigation must be conducted by the Tariff Board. At present the Tariff Board is working overtime conducting necessary investigations into tariff matters in relation to proposals shortly to be submitted by the Government to Parliament," and it is not possible or advisable to interrupt those investigations. It will therefore be some time before the Tariff Board can make necessary inquiries into the payment of a bounty on the production of cotton. The Government, however, recognizing that the growers require some assurance as to what their position will be, and that the planting season is arriving, has already announced, through the Prime 
Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  that it intends to continue a guaranteed price for another year. Correspondence is now being opened up with the states concerned as to the amount of a guaranteed price, and the conditions under which it should be paid. I have no doubt that a satisfactory agreement will be arrived at with the State Governments concerned, and that the growers will be able to proceed with their planting with the assurance that a guaranteed price will be paid for the cotton produced in the forthcoming season. 
That is one phase of the question which will have to be inquired into. 
We have an open mind. Knowing as I do the representations that have been made by the growers, I am sure the proposals we' are putting forward will be accepted as satisfactory. A definite announcement, however, cannot be made until the states have notified their agreement. As soon as an agreement has been reached the exact terms of the guaranteed price will be made known, and this matter of the bounty will then become the subject of inquiry. Ab honorable senators are aware, export bounties are controlled by the Department of Markets and Migration, and, therefore, the administration and work in relation to the necessary inquiries will become thu duty of my colleague, the Minister for Markets and Migration  (Senator Wilson).  Hitherto the matter has been dealt with by the Department of Home and Territories, because that department controls the Northern Territory, which is the only Commonwealth territory interested in cotton production. I can give an assurance that the Government is in sympathy with the payment of a bounty, and will have the necessary investigations made at the earliest possible moment. In the meantime it is proposed to continue the guaranteed price under certain terms and conditions, which terms and conditions have been communicated to the states interested, and concerning which I expect shortly to be able to make an announcement. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have received from  Mrs. Massey,  widow of the late Prime Minister of New Zealand,. the following letter:- _ 
Ariki-Toa, 260 Tinakori-road, Wellington, 7th August, 1925. 
Dear Sirs, 
I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of 14 th July forwarding a bound copy and other copies of resolutions and speeches delivered in both Houses of Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia relating to the death of my husband, the late Prime Minister of New Zealand. 
Will you phase accept and convey to members of both Housesmy family's and my own sincere and heartfelt thanks for the very kind sympathy and condolence extended to us in our groat sorrow, and also an assurance of our very deep appreciation of the resolutions agreed to and the' tributes paid to  Mr Massey's  services. 
Very sincerely, 
A.  Massey. 
Is it correct, as reported in the press, that the Government has invited a delegation from the British Parliament to visit Australia, and, if so, can the Leader of the Government in the Senate say why the invitation was not sent through the Empire Parliamentary . Association? 
The only knowledge I have of the matter is that an invitation has been sent by the Empire Parliamentary Association ; but if the honorable senator will place his question on the business-paper, I shall be in a position to furnish him with a more complete answer. 
I can supplement the reply given by  Senator Pearce.  The invitation to a delegation from the British Parliament to visit Australia was sent from the Commonwealth branch of the Empire Parliamentary Association with the concurrence of the Prime Minister. 
I am not responsible for what has appeared in the press. 
On the14th 
August  Senator J.  Grant asked the following questions: - 
Is it a fact that an appointment to the position of Film Inspector at Sydney has recently been made? 2.Ifso, what is the name of the person appointed? 
What salary is attached to the position? 
For what term has the appointment been made? 
What previous experience did the appointee possess? 
Was he at the time of his appointment, or previously, employed in the Federal Service ? 
How many persons (a) inside and (b) outside the Federal Service applied for the position? 
Were the applicants examined or tested f 
If so, how many; and, if not, on what qualifications was the appointment made? 
What steps, if any, were taken to ascertain if the services of qualified persons within the Service were available 1 
I am now able to furnish the honorable senator with the following answers: - 
Yes. 
Walter Cresswell O'Reilly. 
£550-600. 
The appointment is a permanent appointment under the Commonwealth Public Service Act. 

 Mr. O'Reilly was an experienced administrator of the Department of Justice, New South Wales, had obtained the degree of Bachelor of Arts at the Sydney University, and had passed two years' Law course at the same University for the degree of LL.B. Prior to his permanent appointment he had acted temporarily as Film Censor for about fivo months, during which time he gave every satisfaction. 
No, but  Mr. O'Reilly  was a permanent officer of the Public Service of New South Wales. 7. (a) Twenty-nine; (b) 253. 
No, but all likely applicants were interviewed . 
See replies to Nos. 5 and 8. 
The position was widely advertised, and it was assumed that all officers who considered themselves qualified to fill the position applied for it. 
 On  the 14th August  Senator J.  Grant asked - 
What sums have been advanced to the Australian Meat Council by the Commonwealth ? 
What is the amount of the present indebtedness of the Meat Council to the Commonwealth  1 
What is the nature of the security against which advances were made to the council, or to the persons representing the council, before it received its constitution 7 
Is it a fact that these advances were challenged by the Auditor-General, and, if so, with what result? 
Whether advances are still being made, or are intended to be made, in view of the fact that a majority of the states have not sanctioned legislation enabling the Meat Council to function? 
Will the Minister, if it is a fact that a majority of the states, and an overwhelming majority of stock-owners therein are against the principle embodied in the Meat Industry Encouragement Act, take steps to repeal the measure? 
I am now in a position to supply the following answers to the honorable senator's questions :  - 
£22,500. 
£22,500. 
In consideration of the Commonwealth having agreed to establish a credit at the Commonwealth Bank to be used by the Australian Meat Council, an undertaking was given by leading pastoralists and leading members of the meat industry, that all amounts advanced by the Commonwealth to the Australian Meat Council would be repaid out of moneys to be collected under levies on stock to be imposed by state acts for the purposes of the scheme. 
No trace can be found of these advances having been challenged by the AuditorGeneral. There is, however, a reference to- the advances in paragraph 145 of the AuditorGeneral's report for the year ended 30th June, 1924. This is, however, merely a statement showing amounts advanced to and expenditure incurred by the Australian Meat Council up to the 30th June, 1924, and contains nothing which can be regarded in the nature of a challenge. 
Advances are stilt being made to cover the expenditure of the Australian Meat Council pending the collection of the first levy under the state acts of New South Wales, Queensland and Tasmania, and the Ordinance of the Northern Territory. The levy under the state acts of New South Wales and Queensland, and the Ordinance of the Northern Territory, cannot be made before September next. The Tasmanian levy under the state act cannot be made before the 1st January, 1926. With regard to legislation in the remaining states, information has been received to the effect that the Minister of Agriculture, Victoria, promised to use his best endeavours to have the Victorian act passed this session. It is understood that efforts are now being made to have similar legislation enacted in South Australia and Western Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Government been drawn to the debate in the House of Commons on the 28th and 29th July of this year on Britain's naval plans? 
Has the following statement, made by the First Lord- of the Admiralty,  Mr. W.  C. Bridgeman, been noted, viz., That out of 329 warships of different kinds laid down by the five great . maritime powers since the war, Britain's share was only eleven, including two Australian cruisers? 
Does theabove statement mean that thetwo cruisers being built in Scotland, or any cruiser of the Australian Navy, automatically become part and parcel of the Imperial Navy without reference to the Commonwealth Parliament ? 
The answers are as follow :  - 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Section 42 of the Naval Defence Act necessitates an order in council being obtained before the transfer of any Australian warship to the control of the Admiralty can be effected. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works and Railways,  upon notice - 
What are the principal dimensions of the floating dock proposed to be constructed in New South Wales for the Commonwealth Government? 
What ship-building yard is to be employed in the construction of the dock? 
What is its estimated lifting capacity? 
What is the estimated cost of construction ? 
Were tenders called for? 
Was the State Government of New South Wales consulted in any way with regard to the construction of the proposed floating dock? 
If the proposed dock will be used chiefly on the eastern seaboard, what is the intention of the Federal Government in regard to meeting the requirements of the large ports in the states of Victoria, South Australia, and Western Australia? 
Does the Government favour the policy of co-operating with the various State Governments in the matter of providing modern floating dock facilities for the states mentioned in No. 7 similar to those on the eastern seaboard ? 
This question should have been addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. The answers are as follow :  - 
The whole question is still a matter of  negotiation, but for the purposes of the Commonwealth Government, a minimum lifting capacity of 15,000 tons would bo necessary. 
Walsh Island dockyard, Newcastle. 
See answer to 1. 
This cannotbe given at present, being dependent upon a final determination on certain features, which are still a matter of negotiation. 
Not to the knowledge of the Commonwealth Government. 
The proposal was originated by the State Government of New South Wales. In March. 1925, the State Government informed the Commonwealth Government that it was . prepared to instal and operate a floating dock in connexion with Walsh Island, subject to the Commonwealth paying a subsidy towards its construction.  7  and 8. The provision of docking accommodation to meet the requirements of large ports is a matter for the states concerned, but any proposals from the Governments of the states, similar to that made by the Government of New South Wales, will receive consideration. 
asked the Minister for Markets and' Migration,  upon notice - 
Whether it is a fact, as stated in the budget speech in reference to the Institute of Science and Industry, that "Federal panels have been appointed to direct the investigations of sub-panels formed in each state? " 
Under what authority have such panels and sub-panels been appointed? 
On wha t terms, both as to tenure of office and remuneration, have such appointments been made ? 
The answers are as follow.: - 
The statement refers to the Australian Commonwealth Engineering Standards Association, . and not , to the Institute -.of (Science and Industry. 
The panels and sub-panels have been appointed by the Australian Commonwealth Engineering Standards Association, which is carrying out the work in connexion with the Power-Survey. 
No reference to tenure of office is made in appointing the members. No remuneration, is paid, but travelling and out-of-pocket expenses are reimbursed from the funds of the Association. 
The Commonwealth has, in the northern part of the Northern Territory, cne short stretch of railway on the 3-ft. 6-in. gauge, and it also possesses another comparatively short stretch of the same gauge from Port Augusta to Oodnadatta. I understand that it is seriously intended to proceed with . the construction of lines in the Northern Territory on this gauge. I quite realize that the railways in Queensland are almost wholly of the 3-ft. 6-in. gauge, and lines of- similar width -obtain, in Western Australia. If that had been (he gauge adopted in Victoria and . South Australia, I should have raised no objection to the present proposal. But in view of the Commonwealth policy of unification of railway gauges, and in view of the fact that im pursuance of that policy the line from Kyogle to South Brisbane is to be built on the 4-ft.8½-in. gauge, serious consideration should be given to the advisability -of building further 3-ft. 6-in. lines. I gather from the remarks of the Minister for Home and Territories  (Senator Pearce)  that the 'lines to fee built in the Northern Territory will be of the smaller gauge. This will necessitate all produce from the Territory, consigned to Adelaide or Bourke, or any other station in South Australia or New South Wales, being transferred from one set of trucks to another. All the devices yet invented . to overcome our break of gauge difficulties have failed, and it is recognized to-day by competent engineers that the only solution is to unify the gauges. 'The 4-ft. 8½-in. gauge is now accepted all over the world . as the standard gauge. If 3-ft. 6-in. gauge lines are built in North Australia, Queensland will reap a big advantage. Notwithstanding the opinion- of . some people that the railway -traffic fromNorth Australia will flow to Port Augusta by the direct north-south 'lino when it. is built, I consider that it will flow to Townsville or some other Queensland port. Some of it may go to New South Wales via Bourke. If we build 3- ft. 6-jn. gauge railway lines in North Australia we shall ultimately have to convert them to the standard gauge. Sooner or later all our Australian railways must be converted to the uniform gauge. No one cau say how many millions of pounds this work would cost now, and every year's delay is increasing the amount. Victoria, for instance, is extending her 5-ft. 3-in. gauge railways into the Riverina. I do not blame her for so doing, for she has obtained the consent of the New South Wales Government, but those lines will sooner or later, have to be practically rebuilt on the standard gauge. Railway construction is only beginning in North Australia. The few hundred miles already constructed are not worth considering. In 'these circumstances it is folly for us not to state definitely in this bill that all future construction must be on the 4- ft. 8i-in. gauge. I submit that this is -the proper time for us to provide for that being done, and I therefore ask honorable senators to vote for my amendment. 
Many of us agree with a good deal that the honorable senator has said, but it appears to its that his remarks are not apropos, for we are not now considering a proposal for the construction of either 3-ft. 6-in.. or 4-ft. 8^-in. railways. Nothing in- this measure will compel the commission to adopt either one gauge or the other. The clause before the Chair provides that before any railways are constructed parliamentary authority shall be obtained by means of the passing, of a bill.. When such a bill is before the Senate,  Senator J.  Grant, if he is still here, will ha&gt;ve an opportunity to discuss the question of gauges. It is quite possible that the commission will recommend the adoption of the 4-ft. 8^-in. gauge; but, on the other hand, it may consider the building of a light 2-f t. 6-in. gauge line advisable for developmental purposes.. We ought not to hamper it by compelling it to adopt the 4-ft. 8-J-in. gauge. I ask the committee not to accept the amendment, but to leave the matter for Parliament to- determine at the proper time. 
There is a good deal of common sense in what  Senator J.  Grant has said, and 1 should feel inclined to support him were it not for the fact that the clause provides that all proposals for railway construction in North and Central Australia shall be submitted to Parliament. I understand that a plan of all proposed railways must be submitted to Parliament, in which case it will be able to determine the gauge of the line. 
I realize thatfor developmental purposes it may beconsidered desirable to use quite a narrow gauge in some districts; a light railway or tramway might be built. Seeing that Parliament will be the final arbiter in this matter, I am satisfied. 
.- What would be the difference between the cost of a given railway built on the 4-ft. 8^-in. gauge as against the  3-ft. 6-in.  gauge? 
I do not agree with the honorable senator. I believe the difference in cost, especially when bridges and earth works are taken, into consideration, would be merely nominal. 
With all due respect to the honorable senator, I do not think that the difference would be anything like as much as that. 

 -(Senator Newland). - This discussion is hardly relevant to the clause before the Chair. 
I cannot allow the honorable senator to&gt; proceed amy further along that line-. 
Amendment negatived. 
Paragraph  b  provides that the Commissioner of Railways shall furnish the Minister with -  a book of reference in which shall be set Forth  the  names of the owners of the said lands so far as can with reasonable diligence be ascertained, a description of the said lands showing the bearings of the railway and the nature and quality of cultivation, the state of the enclosures (if any) and the quantity of the land required for the purpose of the railway. 
The words, ' ' so far as can with reasonable diligence be ascertained." appear unnecessary. 
That may be so, but they appear to provide an unnecessary loop-hole. 
Such words will not be of any assistance to the commissioner. 
If they are allowed to remain in the clause the commissioner will be able to say that reasonable diligence has been exercised when, perhaps, it has not been. Who is to be the judge as to the diligence, - reasonable or otherwise, exercised? 
Such a question should not be determined by the Minister. 
If after the exercise of reasonable diligence the commissioner was unable to ascertain the names of the owners of certain blocks of land he could report accordingly. I believe the commissioner will exercise reasonable care, but the inclusion of the words to which I have referred appear quite unnecessary. If they are deleted as I suggest, the commissioner will not be hampered in any way. 
If they are allowed to remain the commissioner may have an excuse for not exercising reasonable diligence. 

 Senator PEARCE (Western AustraliaMinister for Home and Territories) [3.381. - The  Deputy  -Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  appears to be under the impression that this paragraph relates to the acquisition of the land, but it does not. It deals only with the presentation of the Railways Commissioner's report, which comes before Parliament accompanied by a plan showing the land to be acquired and a book of reference to the plan, in which the names of the owners of the land must be given. In some instances it may be impossible, to ascertain the names of the owners of certain blocks. In such circumstances the commissioner will have the opportunity to say that he has displayed reasonable diligence in endeavouring to ascertain the names, and if unable to do so, he can present his report. If these words were deleted he could not submit  i  report until the names of the owners of every block of land had been ascertained. Some of the land near Darwin was sold 100 years ago, and I am not prepared to say that, even with the exercise of reasonable diligence, the names of the owners of some of that land could now be ascertained. Some of it has never been used, and probably the titles were considered by the owners to be of so little value that they have been lost or destroyed. If these words were deleted and the commissioner could not ascertain the names of the owners, he would be unable to submit his report. 
.- I am not confusing this paragraph with the provision relating  to  the acquisition of land which appears in another part of the bill. Notwithstanding the Minister's statement, I am still convinced that the words are unnecessary. The Minister has said that if they were  -to cost under or over £25,000, the sanction of Parliament will have to be obtained ia one way or another..  Senator Findley  is wrong in assuming that the commission will have power to expend sums not exceeding £25,000 without any reference to the Minister or to Parliament. Parliament will, Erst of all, have to vote the lump sum for certain itemized works. 

 Senator FINDLEY (Victoria) 13.48]. - I appreciate the information which the Minister has furnished to me. I am quite aware that the commission will not be able to expend any money unless it has been voted by Parliament j but if Parliament votes a lump sum for developmental purposes the commission may proceed with works that will cost not more than £25,000. 
Do I understand that the commission will have to devote the individual sums wholly and .solely to the items that have been submitted ? 
Does the " act of Parliament " referred to in sub-clause 1 take the place of a reference to the Public Works Committee? 
At present, when the Government desires to undertake any work that is estimated to cost more than £25,000, the House of Representatives is asked to pass a motion referring the matter to the Public Works Committee. Under this clause there is to be no reference whatever to that committee. 
I am aware of that. But am I .to understand that this clause provides that an act of Parliament will replace the reference to the Public Works Committee, and that a special bill will be brought in to authorize any work which costs more than £25,000? 
Sub-clause 2 provides that if the commission is of opinion that the. construction of any work is desirable it shall so report to the Minister, upon which the Minister will do certain things. Sub-clause 4 provides that upon the receipt of plans, specifications, and estimates prepared in pursuance of sub-clause 3, the Minister shall refer them to the commission for consideration, .and .require the commission to say whether in its opinion it is still expedient .to carry out the proposed work. There seems to me to be a certain amount of redundancy about this, and I should like the Minister to explain why the commission is to be asked to express a second time an opinion which it has already given that a work should be carried out. 
It is not intended to burden the commission with a large technical staff which could not be fully employed. If it expresses the opinion that a certain work should be carried out the Minister  refers  it to the Minister for Works and Railways, who has the necessary technical staff. That staff prepares plans and specifications and an estimate of the cost of the proposed undertaking, and gives its opinion as to how best it could be carried out. All this information is supplied to the Minister in control of the Territory, and by him referred to the commission. When the latter sees what the work is likely to cost it may not think it worth while to ;go on with it. But if it is still of opinion that the work should be proceeded with, it informs the Minister accordingly, and he may then bring in the necessary bill to give authority for carrying it out. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 24 - 
The provisions of the Commonwealth Public Works Committee Act 1913-1921 shall not apply in relation to any public work to which the provisions of any of the last three preceding sections apply. 
.- I shall vote against this clause, because I do not think the Commonwealth Public Works Committee should be deprived of its right to investigate all proposed works estimated to cost more than £25,000. 
He could report that he had made careful and exhaustive inquiries. 
Although Parliament has provided that the names of the owners of the land must be supplied, the commissioner could say that exhaustive inquiries had been made, and they could not be ascertained. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 23 (Construction of .public works exceeding £25,000). 
The Government, no doubt, had a good reason for the insertion of this clause in. the bill; but I think that wes should, nevertheless, have from the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  a statement showing the wisdom of clothing the commission with power to undertake works that are estimated to cost not more than £25,000 without previously referring the matter to Parliament. 
If the bill is. passed in its present form, the commission will have power to proceed with very big works that separately may not cost £25,000, but in the aggregate may cost a very much larger sum, without first consulting Parliament. 
I understood the Minister, when moving the motion for the second reading of the bill, to say that works, the cost of which would not exceed £25,000, could be undertaken by the commission, but that works estimated to cost more than that amount would first have to receive the approval of Parliament. 
[3.421. - There are two ways in which Parliament will authorize the works that will be undertaken by the commission. Honorable' senators will see by clause 18 that the commission will have to prepare and submit to the Minister a scheme for the development of a prescribed part of the territory, together with information and explanations in detail in relation thereto. If the Minister gives his approval the commission will have to take the necessary steps to give effect to the whole or the part of the scheme so approved. Under clause 19 the Minister may call upon the commission to prepare and submit to him any particular scheme. The commission will have to submit- each year estimates in detail of its proposed expenditure, and it will be given a lump sum to carry out any works to which approval has been given. That is identical with the procedure that is adopted in connexion with the Federal Capital Commission. When the estimates are submitted to Parliament, the Minister who has charge of them explains the manner in which it is proposed to expend the sum asked for. The only difference between that and other expenditure is that it is shown in the Estimates as a lump sum ; but the details can be furnished by the Minister, and frequently, are given without solicitation. The Federal Capital Commission now submits to me, as Minister, details of its proposed expenditure. I go through those details item by item with the officers of the department. If I approve of them, they are sent to the Treasurer for inclusion in his estimates, and later come before Parliament for authorization of the total amount. Parliament will have before it the sum total that is asked for by the Northern Territory Commission. The Minister who submits it will previously have been supplied by the commission with an itemized statement showing the manner in which it is proposed to expend the amount. This clause provides that if it is proposed to expend on any work a sum greater than £25,000, a special bill must be passed by Parliament . Parliament will thus retain the control that it exercises in regard to all other work throughout the Commonwealth the cost of which is estimated to exceed £25,000. In such cases, the House of Representatives refers the work to the Public Works Committee. That committee presents its report to Parliament, which either approves of or rejects ite  recommendations  . 
No. That is why the procedure provided by this clause is necessary. Whether the work is estimated 

 Senator PEARCE (Western AustraliaMinister for Home and Territories) ("4,0]. - I do not hold second place to  Senator Foll  in my opinion of the value of the work the Public Works Committee has rendered to the Commonwealth, and nothing I have to say on this clause must be taken as in any way derogating from that opinion. But, owing to the circumstances of parliamentary government, it may not be wise to apply the conditions of the Public Works Committee Act to a developmental policy for the north of Australia. If any such policy is to be a real policy, we must avoid the long delays that would necessarily ensue if every work in North Australia costing more than  £25,000 had to be investigated by the Public Works Committee. Honorable senators know that practically the whole of the time of members of that committee, and the Public Accounts Committee, apart from that given to their attendance at sittings of either House, is occupied with the duties thrown upon them in investigating matters in those portions of Australia which are within easy reach of Melbourne by rail or steamer. There have only been two works in the Northern Territory costing more- than £25,000' and requiring investigation by the  Public  Works Committee. Those works were the extension of the railway and the proposal to give increased wharfage- accommodation at Darwin. But if the commission is to do the work we hope it will do, there would be under the existing system far more frequent references each .year to the Public Works Committee. How long did the railway investigation occupy the Public Works Committee?: I venture to say that it took the committee close on- three months to- make its inquiry. 
The honorable senator's interjection only strengthens my argument. If it took three members of the committee three months, how Iona; would it have taken the whole committee 1o investigate the work? The" proposal to increase the wharfage  accommodation  is a small proposition requiring investigation in one locality only, but the committee has been inquiring into it for over twelve months, and lias not yet furnished a report upon it. In its endeavour to solve the problem, it found it necessary to circumnavigate 
Australia. I am sure that any statutory requirement to refer works in. the north to the Public Works Committee would not speed up development, but would have rather the reverse effect and slow it down in a most regrettable fashion. If the north were within easy reach of the south, the Government would not put forward this proposal. It is not intended as a reflection upon the Public Works Committee, nor does it mean that the Government does nob appreciate the work done by the members of that committee, [t is put forward simply because of the physical difficulties in the way of referring works in Northern Australia to the committee. These difficulties are the great distances to be covered, the lack of means of communication, and the delays likely to ensue through investigations by the committee. It is quite possible that, because of political troubles or because of the meetings of Parliament, members of the committee would find it impossible to visit the north to make inquiries. In those circumstances they would summon the officers to come down to Canberra or Melbourne, and instead of the commission being in the Territory prosecuting the work for which it is being paid, that of developing the Territory, it would be spending most of its time hanging around Canberra or Melbourne in attendance on the Public Works Committee. In any case, what would guide the committee in making up its mind? It would  make  up its mind on the evidence submitted by the commission and its officers. Members of the committee are not appointed because they are railway experts or because they have any knowledge of water conservation, or road-making, or post and telegraph works, or harbour works. Yet these are the questions upon which they would report. The Public Works Committee has close at hand in Melbourne the technical officers of the Works and Railways Department, as well as the Postal and other departments, whom it can call before it to give evidence of a technical nature, and the committee is composed of men who are able to sift that evidence, and make up their minds as to the wisdom or otherwise of any particular proposition. But in the case of works in North Australia, it would mean either the committee going to the Northern Territory, to which there is a steamer service only once a month, .or the officers of the commission having to travel from Port Darwin to Melbourne. 
I do. If the commission is not to have a large sum of money to spend, it will be useless to appoint it. Anybody who imagines that an area of 500,000 square miles can be developed without a heavy expenditure must be a blissful optimist, whose opinion is founded upon ignorance.' Under this clause the commission, first of all, says that it considers a certain work desirable. If it be a postal work, the Postal Department will supply the technical officers required to obtain the information needed by the commission; and if the commission is satisfied in the light of the information so received, it may say that it still thinks the work should be proceeded with. Then the Minister goes to Parliament for approval of the work. Even though we pass this clause, Parliament may still say, if it thinks fit, that in view of the importance or magnitude of a proposed work it considers that an investigation should be made by the Public Works Committee, and it may by resolution refer the work to the committee. If it were a work relating, say, to the north-south railway, which involved the question of the best route to be adopted, and which had a political aspect, I should be the first to say that the matter should be investigated by the Public Works Committee before being submitted to Parliament. It would strengthen the position of any government to h?.ve an investigation of that character made ; but the clause under consideration stipulates that works estimated to cost over £25,000 shall not be automatically referred to that committee, and possibly held up for months until the officers can be brought down from Darwin, or until the Works Committee can take evidence in the Northern Territory. If the committee decided not to visit Darwin, or to bring the officers to Melbourne, in what better position would it be to judge the merits of a proposal than the members of the commission, or the Minister, or other members of Parliament? All would be3 guided by information supplied as to the nature of the reports. The only way for the committee to be in a better position than Ministers or members of Parliament generally would be for it to take the sworn evidence of witnesses on the spot, or after they had been brought to Melbourne. The Government does not wish to incur the delay that such a procedure would occasion. It is because it recognizes that the Public Works Committee is already fully occupied with the very- valuable services it is rendering to Australia, and that these additional works could not be investigated by one committee, that it submits this clause. I therefore ask honorable senators not to look upon the clause as in any way a reflection on the Public Works Committee, but to remember that there is always a reserve power in Parliament to refer any particular work to that body, to the Public Accounts Committee, or to a select committee. We say, however, that a proposed work in the Territory estimated to cost £25,000 or over should  not  pass automatically to the Public Works Committee for inquiry. 
This is undoubtedly one of the most important clauses in the bill, and we should be very careful before agreeing to it in its present form. The reference to the Public Works Committee of all the works in the Northern Territory estimated to exceed in cost £25,000 probably would result in some delay, but I am not sure that quite as much delay would not be occasioned by the circumlocutory methods outlined in clause 23. I have always contended during this discussion that there will be just as much delay in carrying out works in North Australia as there has been in the past in the Northern Territory. It was for that reason that I submitted an amendment to give power to a provisional council, after Parliament had voted an amount of money, to go ahead with proposed works. No improvement will be effected in administrative methods if we continue the practice of having these proposals referred hack to Melbourne. 
I shall explain my attitude. Something is to be said in favour of the closing remark by the Minister that possibly, in order to get technical evidence, the committee would have to invite the members of the commission or its officers to travel southwards. That again might involve great expense: but can the Minister say that no departmental officers in Melbourne will have to go to North Australia to inquire into these works before the matters are finally determined? Clause 23 necessitates it. Before technical advice can. be given to the commission, technical officers must be sent from either Melbourne or Canberra to North Australia. 
Nor could the Public Works Committee. 
I wish to discover the most economical method, and the best way in which to avoid delay. I venture to say that when all the provisions of clause 23 have been carried out there will be just as much delay as if the Public Works Committee had proceeded to North Australia to make investigations. The Minister ha3 recognized the value of the work of that body. I was a member of it for four years, aud I can say that, it has saved Australia millions of pounds. The clause as it stands would preclude the possibility of an investigation by that committee. I therefore move - 
That after the word " apply," line 2, the words " unless Parliament otherwise directs," be inserted. 
I am glad to hear the Minister's interjection, for on various occasions it has been impossible to make certain references to the committee because of the language of the Public Works Committee Act. In my opinion, works relating to the Northern Territory have not been unduly delayed through being referred to the committee. The practice has been to form subcommittees so that two inquiries may be proceeded with simultaneously. It would certainly be possible for considerable delay to take place under the provisions of clause 23. Any work exceeding £25,000 in estimated cost will have to be dealt with by special bill, and after the various reports have been obtained Parliament may have gone into recess, in which case the bill would be hung up for perhaps from six to eight months.. The last recess, for instance, extended over a period of between seven and eight months. It is, hardly likely that a bill of this description would be brought down as one of the earliest measures, and it seems to me that only in exceptional circumstances would time be saved by taking an inquiry out of the hands of the  Public  Works Committee. 
.- I also am glad that the Minister has accepted the amendment moved by the acting Leader of the Opposition. Unfortunately, I was not in the chamber at the beginning of this debate, but I understand that the Minister referred to the delay that has occurred in building the new wharf at Darwin, and has attributed it to the Public Works Committee. In my opinion, it is- a remarkably good thing that the delay occurred. The history of the proposal to construct a new wharf at Darwin provides a most glaring instance of the folly of rushing into new work in the Northern Territory. I was- privileged to. be a member of the Sectional Committee of the Public Works Committee that inquired into the first proposition to build a wharf at Darwin. The result of' that investigation was that the matter was left to the wisdom of Parliament. According to the evidence taken from engineers and others it would have been folly to build a wharf such as was at. first proposed. The matter was referred to the Public Works Committee again, and a considerable volume of fresh expert evidence lias been  obtained.  The Government also invited  Sir George  Buchanan to report on the matter. Although he has not yet given evidence on it before the Public Works Committee, I understand that he has made an altogether new proposal. Had the' first plan been carried out a large amount of public money would have been spent, and Darwin would have been very little better off.. 
Per- about: eighteen months. I do, not believe that that has hindered the development of the Territory in any way whatever. It will probably result in Darwin having a thoroughly suitable wharf. We shall be very unwise if we attempt to rush unduly developmental works- in North Australia. Although a good deal could be said in favour of the views expressed by the Minister for Home and Territories  (Senator Pearce),  as to the need for allowing the commission to go ahead without hindrance, a good deal could also be said on the other side. After all, will the members of this commission be so very much more expert than the heads of our own public departments who carry out our ordinary public works ? We have confidence in our public officers, and yet it must be said that not a single proposal that they have submitted to the. Public Works Committee has been recommended by it without alteration. The committee has been able to co-ordinate  the work of the various departments. Unfortunately, our various departmental officers do not work together as well as they should. This is so, no* because of any ill-feeling, but chiefly because of a lack o£ appreciation of each other's needs.. Surely no honorable member will suggest that this commission should be given more power than we take to ourselves. Parliament has resolved that no public work, the estimated cost of which exceeds £25,000, shall be constructed unless it has been reported upon by the Public Works Committee. The application of that rule to this commission would be, to say the least of it, wise. Whoever thinks that the Public Works Committee's investigations are a farce,, makes a huge mistake. Quite a number of our public officers have confessed that the.  committee's  investigations have caused better and more useful work to be done. The expenses of the committee have been saved over and. over again. We shall safeguard the interests of the country by accepting the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses. 25- and 26. agreed to. 
Clause 27- 
In the- first month in each quarter the commission shall furnish to the Minister a written report setting out - 
the approximate expenditure and receipts during, the past quarter;- 
the- general- condition as regards works under the control of the commission ; and 
the appointments and' removals of officers. 
Very careful consideration should be given to this clause. It contains some rather curious provisions. Paragraph  (a),  for instance, provides that an " approximate " statement of receipts and expenditure shall be submitted. The secretary of every friendly  society and of every trade union in Australia is required by law to submit to the authorities a quarterly statement of the position of his society or union. It must be an actual and not an approximate return. The secretary of the National Federation is not obliged by law to do this, but I feel quite safe in sa,ying that the council of the federation would not be satisfied with an approximate statement from him. They would desire to know the actual position. Paragraph  (b)  provides- that the ' report should state ' ' the general condition as regards works under the control of the commission." The board of directors of any concern which has big works in hand requires from time to time, not a general, but a particular statement of the progress of the work. It desires to know, for example, what story has been reached, how the sewer work is progressing, and so on. Paragraph (c) refers to " the appointments and removals of officers." Perhaps the details regarding the removals are more important than those regarding appointments. That paragraph would be improved if it were made to read, " the details referring to the removals of officers. ' ' Surely the GovernorGeneral in Council will not be satisfied with a statement of the " approximate expenditure and receipts " and the " general condition " of the works of the commission. The clause should be amended to provide for an actual statement of accounts and a particular report of the works. 
Apparently the honorable senator has not read clause 29, which provides for the presentation to Parliament of an annual report which must set out in detail all the works done during the year, and also the financial transactions. Clause 27 provides for progress reports, which must necessarily be approximate, unless the commission is to be obliged *o balance its accounts at the end of every quarter. Why should we make a horrible example of this unfortunate com mission, and oblige it to do more than we expect other similar bodies to do ? What has it done to deserve such an awful fate ? Recently a measure was passed for the appointment of the Federal Capital Commission. A similar clause to this was included in .that bill and no ob jection was taken to it. Pursuant to it reports have been presented to Parliament quarterly, and no complaints have been made as to their contents.  Senator J.  Grant has requested that" copies of these reports shall be forwarded to him even before they are tabled in Parliament j but even his microscopic inspection of them has not revealed any abuses. Although the Federal Capital Commission has control of only 100 square miles of country it is not obliged to submit a quarterly report showing the actual state of its finances and work. Why, then, should we oblige this commission, which will have control of 500,000 square miles of territory, to submit an actual report? It must be remembered that this commission will have charge of Crown lands reaching from the coast right down to Alice Springs. Is it reasonable to expect that it shall present an actual statement quarterly of the rentals  received from leases in the vicinity of Alice Springs, Anthony's Lagoon, the Victoria River country, and Darwin  1  I hope that we shall be reasonable, and not expect it to do impossibilities. A hard and fast rule was not made for the Federal Capital Commission, nor for the Murray Waters Commission. In respect, of those bodies, Parliament has been satisfied with an annual report, accompanied by a certificate from  the  Auditor-General  ;that the figures given are correct. That is reasonable. I trust that we shall be satisfied with a similar provision for this commission. 

 Senator THOMPSON (Queensland) [4.351. - In this instance the word " approximate " is not of much consequence, but to any one acquainted with accountancy it would appear to be in the wrong place. The word " actual " should be used, because the expenditure and receipts could easily be given quarterly. The commission would not be expected to submit a statement of the whole financial position every quarter; that would be given annually. In any trading concern, the actual receipts and expenditure can be given monthly or quarterly, but a statement showing the actual financial position cannot be presented until the expiry of six or twelve months, or whatever balancing period has been decided upon. The word " approximate " should not be used, as it should bo quite easy to give the actual receipts and expenditure. It would riot be necessary to state what had been done at Victoria River or other places so long as a statement of the money actually received and expended was given. 
In many instances there are no telegraphs or other means of com.mumca.tion . 
The cheques drawn would show the expenditure and the money received from revenue. It would be the easiest thing in the world to make out an actual statement of receipts and expenditure for the quarter. 
The commission will know what cheques are drawn and what money has been received. Those unacquainted with accounts may confuse a profit and loss account with one of actual receipts and expenditure. Although the word " approximate" should not be used in this instance, I suppose it will serve the purpose, but it is only a question of splitting straws. 

 Senator NEEDHAM (Western Australia) [4.371. - I move - 
That the word " approximate," line 4, be left out. 
If the committee agrees to the deletion of the word ' ' approximate " I intend to move to insert the word " actual." The Minister  (Senator Pearce)  referred to the fact that the same words are used in the Seat of Government Administration Act, but possibly that is because, when debating that measure, I did not exercise the diligence I am showing on this occasion. As  Senator Thompson  has stated, I am not suggesting a quarterly balancesheet, but merely an actual statement of receipts and expenditure. The commission will be responsible for the expenditure of money, and although the territory over which it will exercise control is large, no money can be spent without their authority. Clause 29, to which the Minister referred, deals only with the annual report, which is based on the figures contained in the quarterly statement. Any person in business can easily determine at the end of the quarter the amount of money he has received and the amount expended. Perhaps the committee would agree to the deletion of the word "approximate" without the substitution of any other word, so that it would then read, " the expenditure and receipts, during the past quarter." If the paragraph in that form is acceptable to the committee I shall not press for the insertion of the word " actual." 
If certain statutes passed by this Parliament had been framed in definite language heavy legal costs would not have been incurred. As the word " approximate " can have a very wide interpretation, we should be more explicit. The commission should be in a position to state at the end of each quarter the amount of money received and expended, and that is all the Minister requires. If only an approximate statement is to be submitted, the particulars it contains may he of little value, and the use of this word may give the commission the opportunity to submit information which will be unreliable. As the commissioners will be operating at a great distance from the seat of Government, they should submit reports in a concise and definite manner, as any others would be of little service. It is more important to have an actual financial statement than it is to be provided with the actual number of officers who have been engaged or dismissed. I trust the Minister will agree to the deletion of the word " approximate," which can be made to mean almost anything. 
It is very evident to me why the word ' ' approximate '' has been used. Even the enthusiastic honorable senator who has just resumed his seat  must know that it would be impossible to submit anything but an approximate quarterly return. An officer may be paying out of a suspense account at Alice Springs or elsewhere, or out of cash forwarded from Darwin to Victoria River. How would it be possible to return the actual expenditure at a certain date in time to include particulars in a report to the Minister ? It could not be done. It is obvious that it is necessary that this or some similar word should be used, because it is impossible for other than an approximate statement to be submitted. If there were one central paying authority paying direct to payees it would be possible; but in the case of the commission, which is to have control over 500,000 square miles of country, it is not. 
No; that is capable of a wider interpretation. The word " approximate " is the only one I can think of that would "fill the bill." Surely honorable senators can see the impossibility of ascertaining the exact expenditure for some considerable time, on account of the distance from the seat of payment, and the indifferent means of communication . 
That would show that it was approximate expenditure. 
I think that the present wording is essential, and I shall vote for its retention. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 28 and 29 agreed to. 
Clause 30 (Receipts and Expenditure of Fund). 
-. -  Is  it  provided that rents received from the leasing of land in the Northern Territory shall become portion of the revenue of the commission ? 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 31 to 34 agreed to. 
Clause 35 (Notice of action). 
 This clause provides that one month must elapse, after notice has been served, before action can, be taken. Why has that period been selected  1 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 36 (Agreement with states contiguous to Territory). 
 Can the Minister inform us whether any communication has been received from the Governments of the States of Queensland and Western Australia as to conceding portions of those states; or has the Commonwealth Government proceeded further with the matter? 
Copies of the bill, and the speech that I made when introducing it, have been sent to those Governments. I take it that they are awaiting the passage of this measure before moving in the matter. Negotiations can then be begun. Obviously, it would be foolish for the Commonwealth Government to approach them before the bill had received the imprimatur of Parliament. We do not anticipate receiving from those states any communication until this Parliament has approved of the bill, and, until then, we do not propose to make any further overtures to them. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 37 and 38 agreed to. 
Clause 39- 
Where any law which is continued in force in North Australia or Central Australia by virtue of this section is a law of the Commonwealth, and any power or function is by that law vested in any officer in relation to the State of South Australia, or in relation to the Northern Territory, that power or function shall, in relation to North Australia and to Central Australia, be vested in and exercised by such officer as the Governor-General directs. 
I move - 
That tha words "the State of South Australia." line G, be left out, with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words " any state ". 
The amendment proposes to rectify an error of draftsmanship. .Nearly all the South Australian laws that were in existence when the Commonwealth took over the Territory have been continued, and in some cases it is necessary for them to be administered by an officer of the South Australian Government; hut there is -also the possibility that officers of other states will have to be similarly utilized. The Commonwealth has an arrangement with the Queensland Government, under which the education system of the Northern Territory has been brought into line with that of Queensland. We are now arranging for an inspector of the Queensland Education Department to inspect our schools, instead of ourselves appointing an inspector whose services would be required only occasionally. ' 
No. The amendment will enable the Commonwealth to co-operate with other states where it is more economical to utilize the services of officers of those states. 
.- I am very glad that the Commonwealth i3 availing itself of the advantages which the Queensland Education Department can offer. I trust that the services of the Queensland itinerant teachers will be made available to persons who reside along the Queensland border in the Northern Territory. 
The Territory is so big that one man cannot do justice to it. I know the value of the services of these itinerant teachers to residents of the outback districts of Queensland. They have brought .a great deal into the lives of the parents as well as the children. This is one way in which those who live in the Territory can be benefited and interested. Amendment agreed to. Clause, as amended, agreed to. Clause 40 (Transfer of officers from Northern Territory  Service to North Australian or Central Australian Service). 
..- Will those officers who are now in the service of the Northern Territory ad ministration' be given preference by the commission, or will the Government recommend that those who are willing ito remain there should be given that preference .? 
 Every consideration will be given to officers who are now in the service, but I am not prepared to say that they shall receive preference. 
The policy of the Government is one of preference to returned soldiers. The commission must not be hampered in making appointments ; Lt must have a free hand to appoint the most suitable person, even though he be outside the Northern Territory Service. We want to have the most efficient Service. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 41 agreed to. 
Clause 42 - 
All magistrates and justices of the - peace holding office in the Northern Territory on the proclaimed day, and entitled to exercise jurisdiction therein, and all public officers and public functionaries in and for the Northern Territory on the proclaimed day, shall continue to hold office under the Commonwealth in relation to North Australia or Central Australia, according as to whether they are resident in North Australia or Central Australia on the proclaimed day, and shall continue to hold such office in North Australia or Central Australia, as the case may be, on the same terms and conditions as they held office under the Commonwealth. 
Amendment (by  Senator Pearce)  agreed to - 
That the words " under the Commonwealth/' line 7, be left out. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 43 (Appointment and tenure of Government Resident). 
Why is the period of appointment, not specified in the same way that the term of 'office of the commission is set out ? I do not see any reason for the differentiation. 
Can the Minister give us any idea how long the period will be ? I presume that there will be certain expenses connected with the office. I do not suppose that the Government Resident will live merely on air. Some contribution will have to be made from the Consolidated Revenue. 
At the second reading stage I intimated that the Government Resident in North Australia would probably be a man with legal training, in order that he might also act as a magistrate. I pointed out that in the northwest of Western Australia it is the custom to appoint as Government Resident a man who is also the magistrate. There are two doctors in Darwin; therefore the Government Resident there will probably be also a magistrate. To enable the services of a suitable man to be secured it should not be made a hard and fast rule that the term of appointment shall be three or five years. It may be possible to come to an agreement fixing the term at three, five, or seven years. But the clause as it stands gives the Government a little freedom to mate the term qf appointment such as will enable it to get suitable men. For instance, it is hoped to secure the services of a medical man as Government Resident at Alice Springs,, where there is no medical man now. A young doctor with administrative qualities is the type of man needed as- Government Resident there ; but to tie- us down to- a fixed term of three years or five years would possibly militate against our chance of getting such a man. If no specific period is fixed it gives the Government a little freedom in making a choice. In making appointments- in the Mandated Territory of New Guinea it has been found of great advantage not to have to tie medical men down to fixed periods. Young medical men do not care to be appointed definitely for long terms. They feel that they would like to get a footing in these out-of-the-way places and then return to the big. centres of population and brush themselves up a bit. I ask the committee to leave the clause as it stands, on the assurance that the period will probably be three or four years. 
.- I hope that the- Government will got gentlemen possessing the qualifications required to- act as Government Residents, but I should like to know what powers they will possess as against those given to the commission? 

 Senator PEARCE  (Western AustraliaMinister for Home and Territories) [5.9). - The powers of the commission are set out in clause 17 of the bill. Tho Government Resident will have nothing to do with them. He will deal solely with matters relating to the administration of justice, the police, aborigines, mines and fisheries and health preservation, which are all governed by ord nances. The Protection of Aborigines Ordinance will require a certain amount of policing. The Government Resident will have to see that the contracts made by the natives who are employed on the leases are properly made and carried out. He will supervise the inspection of boilers, and deal with the granting of assistance to indigent persons. Generally speaking, he will attend to matters which are ordinary state matters covered by ordinances. 
 I should like the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  to give the committee some idea of the remuneration which is likely to be paid to a Government Resident. 
Clause, agreed to. 
Clause 44 - 
There shall be  an  advisory council for North Australia to advise- the Government Resident in relation to any matter affecting North Australia (but not including any matter  relating  to the powers of the commission or any matter under the control' of the commission), including advice as to the making of new ordinances or the repeal or amendment of existing ordinances. 
The advisory council shall consist of the Government Resident, and of Four members, two of whom shall be appointed by the Minister, and shall hold office, during good behaviour, for a period of three years, and be eligible for re-appointment, and two of whom shall, subject to this act, be- elected for a period, of three years, and be eligible for reelection..... 
 The intention of the Government is that the advisory council shall not have power to- advise on matters dealt with by the commission. The Parliamentary Draftsman was .of opinion that the clause made that clear, but  Senator 
Greene's criticism on the second reading having raised some doubt on the point, it has been thought advisable to amend the clause. I move - 
That the words, " (but not including any matter relating to the powers of the commission or any matter under the control of the commission)," sub-clause (1), be left out. I propose to have these words re-inserted at the end of the sub-clause. 
I should think that it would be useful for the commission to have the benefit of the advice of the members of the advisory council, who will no doubt be residents of the Territory and have long experience there. The council, of course, need not accept the advice given, but I think it should be entitled to benefit by it. ' 
Amendment agreed to. 
I move - 
That, at the end of sub-clause (1), the following words bo inserted : - " (other than ordinances relating to the administration of Crown lands "), but not including any matter relating to the powers of the commission or any matter under the control of the commission." 
No. The " but" is necessary, because of the words in parentheses. I want to say, in reply to  Senator Thompson,  that the appointment of au advisory council is in the nature of an experiment. It is the germ of selfgovernment, but we do not want to have at the outset what may be meddlesome interference in the bigger work the commission has to do. Until the advisory councils have demonstrated their usefulness by giving advice to the Government Residents on matters of administration that affect them intimately, it is not advisable to extend their duties. We are hoping that during the first five years in which the commission will function, the development of the Territory will be such that there will be an increased local population. Then possibly the functions of the advisory councils may be enlarged, not only to deal with administrative matters, but also to give advice on matters handled by the commission. However, this is merely a short first step towards selfgovernment, and it is all we feel justified in taking at this stage. We consider that during the first five years we should not have too many people " putting their fingers in the soup," and that the commission should be given a chance to make a start. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I notice that the advisory councils will be partly elected and partly nominated. Will they be paid ? 
That point has not yet been decided, but it is obvious that some allowance for expenses will have to be made, especially if a member df an advisory council has to' travel 200 or 300 miles to attend a meeting. The matter can be dealt with by regulation. 
The Northern Territory is very rich in minerals, and it seems to me particularly desirable that the members of the advisory council should have some experience, particularly of mining, in Northern Territory conditions. Therefore, I suggest that after the word " members ", sub-clause 2, the words " preferably men who have had experience in the Northern Territory, and one of whom shall be a mining mau " be inserted. 
, - I ask  Senator Benny  not to move such an amendment. Of course, all members of advisory councils will be Northern Territory residents, but any restriction providing that one member must be a mining man would create difficulty. What the Government proposes is to let the election take place first. If two mining men were elected, why should we then have to add another mining man?' On the other hand, a commercial man and a wage-earner from Darwin might be elected, in which case the Government would nominate a mining man and a pastoralist. It desires the council to be representative of all interests. The class of representatives elected by the residents would influence the Government in selecting the members to be appointed by the Minister. 
No ; but they would not be elected unless they were residents of the Territory. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 45 to 47 agreed to. 
Clause 48 - 
The Seat of Government of North Australia shall bc established as soon as practicable at Newcastle Waters, and until the seat of government is so established it shall be at Darwin. 
, -  I propose to ask the committee to agree to an amendment providing for the establishment of a seat of government at Darwin. I am at a loss to understand why Newcastle Waters should be selected. Darwin is recognized as having one of the finest harbours in the world. It affords wonderful shelter, and I believe it is the third or fourth harbour from the points of view of excellence of situation and accommodation. Moreover, Darwin with its massive, wellconstructed " buildings has suitable conveniences for a capital. Since South Australia went to the. trouble and expense  of  establishing the administration at Darwin, we should hesitate before launching  out  on a proposal to form a new capital at Newcastle Waters-. I move - 
That the words, " as soon as practicable at Newcastle Waters, and  nutil  the seat of government is so established it shall be," be left out. 
 This clause, of course, is merely  a  placard, but I think it will be very useful. One of the disadvantages of administration in Australia is that the various seats  of  government are practically all on the sea-board. It would have been very much better for Australia if its state capitals had been established inland, and in more central situations. If honorable senators glance at the map they will see how centrally situated Newcastle Waters is with regard to the northern portion of the Northern Territory. Its advantages as a seat  of  government will be many. Any roads or railways that may be constructed connecting North Queensland with Western Australia will almost certainly pass through Newcastle Waters, and any railways connecting North Australia with the south must pass through  it.  The stock routes running north and south and east and west converge on this spot. Its situation is elevated compared with Darwin, and its more healthy climate will be conducive of more vigorous administration. 
About 900 feet. I camped there for two nights, and each morning the dew on my sleeping bag was frozen. In Darwin, so far as I am aware, blankets are never required. Officials residing at a place which has a bracing atmosphere are more likely to be vigorous administrators than if they are stationed in a place having a humid climate such as Darwin possesses. Newcastle Waters has a good permanent water supply. The rainfall has never been known to fail, and it averages from 20 to 25 inches per annum. The district is a good one, and I think that Newcastle Waters will be recognized as the natural geographical site for the seat of government of North Australia. It seems desirable to establish the capital in that part of the Territory where there is most hope of development taking place. Darwin, as well as having the worst climate, has the poorest soil. 
Yes. One must travel at least 200 miles before reaching comparatively good country, whereas Newcastle Waters has the Victoria- River district on the west, the Barkly Tablelands on the east, and the MacDonnell Ranges to the south. Although, as I said, this provision amounts only to a placard, I take it as an expression of the view of Parliament that as soon as practicable Newcastle Waters should be made the seat of administration. 
 I cannot agree with the view expressed by  Senator Benny,  nor do I approve of the clause as it stands. Once a capital is established in any particular locality it seems to remain there indefinitely. I propose to move to amend the clause so that it will state definitely that the capital shall be established  at  Newcastle Waters. No mention should be made of. Darwin. If it is allowed to be declared the temporary seat of government, it may remain so for an indefinite period to the detriment of the best interests of the Territory. 
Yes; but the mere fact that South Australia established it as the capital, and made such a mess of the Territory that it was only too glad to hand the country over to the Commonwealth, is no reason why this Parliament should follow in the footsteps of that state. Here is an opportunity to cut out Darwin definitely. We should make it mandatory on the commission to sit at Newcastle Waters.. Undoubtedly the land in, that vicinity is. far superior to that around Darwin. 
.- I hope that  Senator Benny  will not press his amendment, since all the facts are against his contention. One of the great drawbacks that Queensland has suffered has been the establishment of the seat of government in the south-eastern portion of the state, and on the coast. I am well acquainted with the central parts of my state, and when I visit the districts served by the waters of the Thomson, I find that the people complain about Rockhampton in the same way as fault is, found with Brisbane in the south, and Townsville in the north. Most of the Australian capitals are located  ob  the coast,, and the people suffer disadvantages on account of it.. Darwin will remain the port of North Australia whether it is the capital or not. It is an excellent idea to establish the seat of government in the heart of the Territory, where there is the best prospect of development taking place.. While it will be a good thing for Newcastle Waters it will also be a move in the interests of the whole of North . Australia. The pastoralists, who have suffered great hardships in the past, will no doubt be greatly encouraged in their efforts to develop the country through having the administration established in their midst. 
 Notwithstanding the remarks' of Senators Reid and J. Grant, I hope that my amendment will be agreed to. P'eople who have bad a. wide experience of the Northern Territory are practically of one opinion as to the desirability of retaining Darwin as the capital'. It is practically the gate to the commerce of the world. It is an open gate to- emporiums of the East. We hope that there will be a strong flow of foreign trade there. We have a capital ; let us stick to. it. 

 -(Senator Newland). - I point out that if  Senator Benny's  amendment is agreed to it will not be competent for  Senator J.  Grant to move the amendment he has indicated, namely, the deletion of the words, " as soon- as practicable." 
 On the understanding that I shall have an opportunity . to move my amendment later, I ask leave to withdraw it temporarily. 
Amendment, by leave, withdrawn. 
.- I move- 
That the words- " as soon as practicable "  be left oat. 
If that is agreed to, I shall move to further amend the clause so that it will read - 
The seat of government of North Australia  shall  bo  established at Newcastle Waters. 
I have already protested against the indefinite wording of this clause, and have pointed out that it might, cause an indefinite postponement in the removal of the capital from Darwin to Newcastle Waters. 1 feel quite certain that if the clause is agreed to as it stands, the transfer of the capital to. Newcastle Waters will, on one pretext  qf  another, be delayed year after- year. We all know that the establishment of the seat of the Federal Government at Canberra has been postponed many years' longer than was- at first intended. Here is an excellent opportunity for us to prevent anything of that kind from happening- in respect to North Australia. 
Question - That the words proposed to be left out be left out - put. The committee divided: - 
Ayes . . . . 9 
Noes . . . . . . IS 
Majority . . 9 

<graphic href="111332192508191_20_0_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="111332192508191_20_0_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="111332192508191_20_0_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the negative. 
Amendment negatived. 
Amendment (by  Senator Benny)  negatived - 
That the words, " at Newcastle Waters and until the seat of government is so established it shall be ", be left out. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 49 (Appointment and tenure of Government Resident). 
The Minister stated in his second speech that it was proposed to appoint advisory councils, partly nominee and partly elective, and also Government Residents. I should like some information on the duties that will fall upon these Government Residents. 
I should also like to know what salary it is proposed to pay these officers, and the term for which they will be appointed.. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 50 - 
There shall be an advisory council for Central Australia to advise the Government Resident in relation to any matter affecting Central Australia, including advice as to the making of new ordinances or the repeal - or amendment of existing ordinances. 
[5.491.  -  I move - 
That alter the word " ordinances," second occurring, sub-clause (1), the following words be inserted : - " other than ordinances relating to the administration of Crown lands ". 
This amendment is similar to that made earlier this afternoon in clause 44. It is really consequential. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 51 and 52 agreed to. 
Clause 53 (Application of Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1921). 
 The clause reads - 
The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1921 shall apply to industrial disputes - 
in North Australia; and 
in Central Australia, as if from the definition of " industrial disputes " in section four of that act the words " extending beyond the limits of any one state " were omitted. 
What will be the position of members of federal industrial organizations working in North Australia or Central Australia if the words " extending beyond the limits of any one state" are omitted? Will the Minister explain the meaning of the clause? 
Supposing an industrial dispute, which extended beyond the limits of one state, existed between members of the Australian Workers Union and the employers, would the members of that organization in the Territory then become involved ? Does it mean' that the Government will have the power to deal exclusively with members of all industrial organizations in the Territory ? 
There are constitutional limitations upon the powers of the Commonwealth, which are expressed by these words m the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The Commonwealth has power to legislate in regard to industrial disputes extending beyond the limits of any one state. A similar principle applies in connexion with the Australian Industries Preservation Act and the Secret Commissions Act. We are constitutionally hedged in, and have to make lhat admission in the law itself. In the Northern Territory, however, we are not under any such disability. In other portions of the Commonwealth the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act can apply only to disputes which extend beyond the limits of one state; but in the Northern Territory any industrial dispute which arises can be dealt with under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act, because in that instance we are in the same position as a state, and therefore the limitation mentioned in the act will not apply. 
Yes. If a dispute, for instance, at Alice Springs, did not extend beyond that centre it could be heard in the Federal Arbitration Court, because we would be the sole authority. As development in the Territory extends, it will be necessary to provide local tribunals, but until that is necessary the Federal Arbitration Court will deal with all disputes. 
Yes. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 54 and 55 agreed to. 
Clause 56 (Application of Lands Acquisition Act 1906-1916). 
 I invite the attention of the committee to the proviso of this clause, which reads-   
Provided that, in determining the compensation to which the owner is entitled under that act, the value of the land shall be taken not to exceed the unimproved value of the land, or the interest therein of the owner on the date of the passing of this act, together with the value of his interest in the improvements on the land at the date of the acquisition of the land. 
This introduces a new departure, as it is provided that land acquired at some future date will be paid for, not at the price at which it is then valued, but at the value attaching to it at the passing of this act. It is proposed to give the owner the value of his interest in the improvements on ' the date of the acquisition of the land, but he should also be entitled to receive the value of the land at the date of its acquisition. 
In this instance I am right. 
In the Minister's youthful days, when his intellect was unclouded by the opinions of those with whom he is now associated, he would have advocated the complete appropriation of any added value given to the land in consequence of the progress of the community ; but the right honorable gentleman, like others who have imbibed too freely in the pernicious doctrine of Protection, which is the national policy and upon which the Government relies for revenue, allows the owners of the land all over the Commonwealth the added value created by public expenditure. In this instance, the Government appears to think it is doing something wonderful in pouncing upon one or two unfortunate individuals in Northern Australia, and robbing them of something to which they are fully entitled. This is an indication to the owners of the land in North and Central Australia that the value of the land at the date of resumption will not be taken into account. The price the Government will pay will be that assessed as at the passing of this act. I have no particular objection to the wording of the clause, although it is a tardy and microscopic recognition of what I term justice, but in regard lit)  lands in other parts of the Commonwealth the Government remains discreetly silent. Recently the Government acquired land at Kirribilli Point, on Sydney Harbour, at the rate of £32,000 per acre. No protest was then made by -the Minister or  Senator Ogden  and other honorable senators who interjected. They believe that it is right to pay for the resumption of that land at its present value, not at that at which it was originally sold or that at which it stood when the Lands Acquisition Act of 1906 was passed. That does not concern the Minister or  Senator Ogden,  who now think that something wonderful is being done. 
It is not right to single out certain individuals for special treatment. Personally, I think it is unconstitutional. The Government have no objection to paying £32,000 an acre for land at Kirribilli Point. 
£4,000 for oneeighth of an acre. 
I have quoted the rate per acre. Personally I have no objection to this departure, but I do not see why it should not apply to the whole Commonwealth. The Minister should explain why there has been any discrimination. 
.- Wo are entitled to some explanation as to why it is intended to discriminate in this way. Such a provision will hamper the sale of land in the Territory, because at some future time the Government may propose to acquire an area at the price it is to-day. I support  Senator Grant's  contention in this respect, because I do not see why the whole of Australia should not be treated alike. 
I did not rise to reply to  Senator Grant  because I thought he was only taking advantage of this opportunity to refer to the purchase of the land at Kirribilli Point, which he has mentioned. I did not think ho wished me to speak concerning a principle of which he approved. This is a similar clause to one' we passed in a bill dealing with Federal Capital Territory, where we took over 900 square miles of country at practically prairie values. We paid £2 10s. or £3 per acre. Recently the Government sold leases at Canberra at a valuation of from £3,000 to £4,000 an acre. That was made possible entirely by the establishment of the Federal Capital Territory and the expenditure there of public money. 
No. We now resume land at Canberra, not at its presentday value, but at the value which existed when the act was passed in 190S. There is very little freehold in the Northern Territory, and 'the value is slight. The Government proposes to expend a large sum of money in providing means of communication and constructing public works. That expenditure will be a charge against the rest of the Commonwealth. As the enhanced value that must follow will have been created entirely by that expenditure, and not by any activity of the local people, it is proposed that the Government shall have the right to resume at the value existing at the time of the passing of the act. If, however, a person has effected improvements on his property, those improvements will be paid for at the value they hold at the date of resumption. 
This provision will not be  a  discouragement. The greater productive power that will be given to the land will be an encouragement. ' At present it is impracticable to run sheep in the ' Territory, because the produce cannot be sent to market and commodities obtained at a sufficiently cheap rate. That will be altered when improved means of communication are provided, and the holder of land in the Territory will get a greater return because of the higher productivity of his land. I do not think that in respect of land required by the Commonwealth he should also obtain the enhanced values that will result from the construction of railways and other public works that are carried out at the expense of the community generally. 
Is it not now the custom, outside the Territory, when land is being resumed by the Commonwealth Government for public purposes, for a certain sum to be offered to the owner, and, if he is not satisfied, to refer the matter to arbitration? 

 Senator PEARCE  (Western Australia - Minister for Home and Territories [6.9].  -  That is the machinery of the Lauds Acquisition Act. The principle contained in the proviso to this clause does 'not appear in that act, but it is in the Federal Capital Commission Act. 
 According to the proviso, there will be no need for an arbitrator.. 
 The arbitrators will determine whether the offer is a proper one?   .Senator PEARCE.  - Yes. 
 Those with blocks which are resumed by the Government will fare worse than those who sell to private purchasers, because the latter will be able to obtain the added value. This will lead to ;a great deal of underground engineering aud many undesirable practices. The sooner the Government sees that the whole of the value which is acquired by land is appropriated for public purposes, the sooner will the Commonwealth commence to make progress. 
Clause agreed to 
Clauses 57 to 61 agreed to. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments.  Silting suspended from. 6.17 to S p.m. 
 This is a brief bill of three clauses, the last of which contains a very vital principle, inasmuch as it proposes to enable the Government to sell leasehold land in the Northern Territory, so that it may ultimately become freehold. The leasehold system was adopted by a Labour Government, of which the present Leader of the Senate,  Senator Pearce,  was a member; and I am wondering why the right .honorable gentleman is now sponsoring a measure which seeks to establish the freehold system of laud tenure in the Northern Territory. When the right honorable- gentleman' was. moving the second reading of the bill he told us that the power of Parliament to tax freehold land was equivalent to the adoption of the leasehold system, and that therefore even in respect to freehold land Parliament was really the landlord. It is true that under the freehold system the Commonwealth Government may l..e the landlord ; but it does not own the property, whereas under the leasehold system it does not part with the ownership in the land. This bill proposes to give away government-owned land to private individuals. 
-HAM. - At least, 'the Government, will no longer continue to own the land. The honorable and gallant, senator will no doubt contend that the Crown can always resume land, but he knows as well as I do that it takes a considerable amount by way of compensation to satisfy the claims of persons from whom freehold laud is acquired. When the Crown parts with land under the freehold system it is no longer the landlord in the true meaning of the word. It is certainly true, as the Minister contends, that the Government can tax freehold land, but it can also tax leasehold land. In fact, it has already done so, although recently a doubt has been raised on this point, and -the right to tax Crown leaseholds is now the subject of an inquiry by a commission. My opinion is that the Government should retain all its rights in respect of any land in the Northern. Territory.  Senator Pearce  pointed out in his speech that the passage of this bill would help to develop the Territory. The inference to be drawn from that remark is that the development of the Territory has been retarded by the operation of the leasehold principle. My opinion is that the stagnation which has existed in the Northern Territory under different administrations is due, not to the existence of the leasehold principle, but to the long delays associated  with communications between the Administration in the north and the responsible Minister at the Seat of Government. In justifying the passage of this bill  Senator Pearce  pointed out that although the leasehold principle would still apply to the Federal Capital Territory, the two propositions were entirely different. I fail to follow his line of reasoning. I cannot see how the Federal Capital Territory in this respect can be regarded as being different- from the Northern Territory.  Senator Pearce  has not suggested that the existence of the leasehold principle has in any way retarded the. work of the commission which has been appointed by Parliament to administer the Federal Capital Territory. We have no evidence whatever that it has done any injury to the Federal Capital Territory t or handicapped the Federal Capital commission in its administration, and I fail to see how it can be contended that it would handicap the commission proposed to be appointed to control the Northern Territory.  Senator Pearce  claimed that the banks would not come to the assistance of people working land under leasehold, and he quoted the Federal Capital Territory as an example. He said, in referring to settlement in the north - 
Imagine the reception which would be given to such a settler who went to any of our banking institutions to obtain an advance on the * security of a leasehold, in order that he might cultivate it! Many of us know from bitter experience that it .is not easy to obtain advances even on freehold land, but it is absolutely impossible to do so in respect to leasehold land. Country lands are regarded less favorably by bankers than are town lands. It is unfortunate that it should be so, but the fact remains that bankers seem to prefer the security of town rather than rural lands. 
Why did not the Commonwealth Bank come to the assistance of the leaseholders in the Federal Territory? It was established by a Labour Government, of which  Senator Pearce  was a member, and one of. its objects was to give advances on leaseholds in Commonwealth territory. I know that during the old regime it probably did not do so, and now that amending legislation has entirely altered the character of the bank, making it a bankers' bank, and not the people's bank it was intended to be, the difficulty of obtaining advances on leasehold securities has been intensified. 
I object to the bill because it proposes to adopt the freehold instead of the leasehold system of land tenure. I contend that the leasehold system has not retarded the development of the Northern Territory, and that its retention ought to facilitate it. Therefore, I hope the Senate will not agree to the second reading of the bill. 
I regret very much that the Government proposes to depart from a principle which was adopted and embodied in an act passed by this Parliament a few years ago. All the arguments now put forward by  Senator Pearce  in favour of the adoption of the leasehold system were at that time advanced by him in support of the principle of the non-alienation of Crown lands. We know that land is the source of all wealth. If we could settle the land question, the settlement of all other matters would be comparatively easy. The private ownership of land is primarily responsible throughout the world for almost all the ills to which the flesh is heir. Of course, we all know that the Government has the power to tax land to its full economic limit. This Parliament has always had unlimited power to- tax the lands of the Northern Territory to the extent the Minister says may be done if this bill is passed. The granting of freeholds will not make for progress in that part of Australia. The commission which the Government proposes to appoint will undertake big works with the approval of Parliament, and all the money it will spend will go to enhance the value of the land. 
We know how government effort and expenditure have advanced the value of land in every part of the world. The extension of tramway facilities ' throughout the metropolitan areas in Victoria has increased land values by millions of pounds. The building of railways, roads, and bridges, and the construction of irrigation and other public works have had a like effect. The added value created by the expenditure of public money belongs to the community, .and the people should reap the benefit of it. 
That is the way to talk. 
Although the bill before us is a very short one, it provides for an amendment of a very important provision in the original act. Section 11 of the Northern Territory Administration Act of 1910 reads - 
No Crown lands in the Territory shall be sold or disposed of for any estate of freehold except in pursuance of some contract entered into before the commencement of this act. 
As I wish to refer later to the position in the Federal Capital Territory, I desire to quote section 9 of the Seat of Government Administration Act of 1910, which reads - 
No Crown lands in the Territory shall be sold or disposed of for any estate of freehold except in pursuance of some contract entered into before the commencement of this act. 
These sections  are  identical. The present Government has deliberately, wilfully, and maliciously crucified Canberra as far as impossibly can. 
 Order ! The honorable senator is mot entitled to apply such a term to the actions of any government or minister. He must hot impute motives. 
The honorable senator will not be in order in referring to Canberra, except by way of illustration. 
The honorable senator must allow me to be the judge of that. 
If you,  Mr. President,  rule that I am not allowed to refer to Canberra even by way of illustration, I shall dissent from your ruling, quick and lively. 
I shall claim the right to refer by way of illustration to the procedure in the case of the Federal Capital Territory. 
I have been speaking for only about two minutes. I shall, however, refer to the Federal Capital Territory later. I wish to show what the Government intends doing in regard to the land in the Northern Territory. 
I am sorry that I have not read the leader to which the honorable senator refers. The latest figures in regard to the Northern Territory are not published in the Commonwealth  Year-Booh;  those available are only up to 1921. Under the heading, " Alienation and Occupation of Crown 
Lands in the Northern Territory" in 1021, it is shown that 476,508 acres were sold and 48 acres granted for public purposes, or a total of 476,556 acres alienated. Of the leased land, 356 acres- were with the right of purchase, and 119,069,760 were for pastoral purposes. Other leases comprised 18,606,537 acres, making a total of 137,676,653. The area of unoccupied land consists of 196,963,591 acres. The total area of the Northern Territory is 335,116,S00 acres. I propose later on to quote similar figures for the whole of the Commonwealth, but in the meantime wish to direct attention more particularly to the Northern Territory. The Government is proposing to depart from the principle embodied in the Northern Territory Administration Act for the past fifteen years. Although that principle lias been in operation for some time, I do not say that it should not be liable to review. I am at a loss, however, to understand why the Government should now decide to make a change, as the adoption of the proposal now before us will be the means of placing in the hands of certain people in the Commonwealth the legal right to fleece and rob future generations. I saw a glaring example of this principle only yesterday. A returned soldier suffering almost the maximum of disabilities, when he returned to the Commonwealth, found that, under our glorious system of freehold- - which the present Minister  (Senator Pearce)  and his ardent followers support - before he could procure a home, he had to pay a land-jobber nearly £100 for land on which to erect a dwelling. That is a condition of affairs which the Minister and his supporters desire to see perpetuated in the Commonwealth. If the amount I have mentioned were paid to the Crown it would, I think, be too much, but to allow it to be paid to a private individual, who has the right to legally rob this  mau, is beyond my comprehension. The value of gratuity bonds or of the pensions paid by the Commonwealth is placed in the - pockets of these land speculators. This condition of affairs prevails to-day all over the Commonwealth, and honorable senators opposite know that that is the principle which they advocate. 
I do, and so does the honorable senator. I am holding freehold land because I cannot obtain leasehold. Any man in this country who desires to make a home is compelled, in quite a legal manner, to approach one of these land-jobbers in order to secure possession of a building site. People have to mortgage their wages or to borrow money, and pay a sum for the land which, in normal conditions, would he sufficient with which to build a home. That is what  Senator Thompson  advocates. 
I would if I had it to sell. That is a principle the honorable senator favours. 
The honorable senator should not introduce personalities. 
The honorable senator stands for legal robbery. 
Under this form of legal robbery, which  Senator Thompson  supports, the gratuities and pensions which we pay returned soldiers are- taken from them. 
I withdraw.  I used the expression merely because I could not find, any other language sufficiently strong to convey my meaning. Soldiers who fought in France, Gallipoli, Palestine, and Egypt-, on their return to the Commonwealth, many in a maimed condition, found that they had. to part with the money they received in order to secure land . on which to erect a home. Such conditions should not be tolerated in a civilized community, and, if our  returned soldiers and sailors dealt with these questions as they should be dealt with, we would not have the spectacle of thousands of men walking the streets unemployed, in a state of destitution. 
It is laid down in the Bible that the land shall not be sold for ever. Even in ancient times it was recognized that the land should remain the property of the people; that those who held the land controlled the country and, therefore, the lives of the people. What do we find in Great Britain and in other parts of the civilized world? The position is as was pointed out by  Senator Findley.  There is unemployment, low wages, doles, and soup kitchens. Why? Because all over the civilizedworld the principle of private ownership of land is establishe/1, and under it certain individuals have the legal right to fleece their fellow citizens. I saw in the press the other day that a certain lord acquired all the land in Bootle. a town in Lancashire, in consequence of which the residents had to pay the owner for the privilege of living in England. Whilst it is true that, the British Crown has parted with the freehold of land in Great Britain, it must be remembered that most of the land is held by a mere handful of people. They most religiously and determinedly hold on to the freehold, because it enables them to extract rent from other -Britishers who are continually " sidling " that they never will be slaves. That is the condition of affairs that members of the government party desire to introduce into the Northern Territory, and to see continued in other parts of Australia. I do not wish to see it introduced in the Northern Territory.. I should like to see continued there for all time die present policy relating to land. If the freehold principle is introduced every mile of railway that is built there at public expense will increase the desirableness of the land. Once that occurs the price of land will immediately advance. Increased land value is rarely brought about by those who own land. Once you obtain possession of land you can go to Timbuctoo or anywhere else, and remain away for years. If the population increases and the demand for land becomes greater, you will probably find on your return that your land has doubled, trebled, or even quadrupled in value. That added value should belong, not to the man who owns the freehold title, but to the community, which is entirely responsible for the creation and maintenance of land values. The desire to occupy and use land must be present, otherwise it will not have any value; and that desire can be maintained only by the community. If the population of the Northern Territory were increased to 5,000,000 or 6,000,000 persons, the land which to-day produces a mere bagatelle in the way of rent would become a most valuable asset. If we introduce the freehold system that valuable asset will belong, not to the Commonwealth, but to the few individuals who now own extensive leases, that are measured by parallels of latitude in that great country. They will reap the whole of the advantages that will follow the construction of railways and public works, and an increase in the population of the Northern Territory. They will have the legal right to systematically fleece their fellow citizens. I do not stand for that principle. In the United States, in every country in Europe, as well as in Australia, there is to-day an army of unemployed. Those persons cannot obtain- access to land unless they pay the owners what they choose to ask. It has been very truly said that the Northern Territory is stagnating. The simple- and all-sufficient reason is that the majority of the people of Australia believe that they can obtain better conditions in other parts of the continent. The moment they become convinced that they will be better served in the Northern Territory they will go there and remain there. The question of a freehold or a leasehold title will not enter into their considerations. Under a proper system of leasehold, land .speculation would absolutely cease. The lands should be valued annually, and the added value should be annexed by the state. for public purposes. Until that has been done we  shall not have the slightest chance of dealing effectively and permanently with the unemployed problem. All other  schemes excepting this have already been tried. It was laid down fifteen years ago that the leasehold principle should be applied to the lands at Canberra, but systematically one government after another has taken steps that have absolutely prevented settlement at Canberra. They have deliberately fixed the upset price of each building site at a figure so high that the public will not purchase. That is the sole reason for the lack of progress at Canberra. 
In the Federal Capital Territory the lands are controlled under the leasehold system. Yet the progress that should have been made there has not been made. The Northern Territory is in a similar position. The reason for its lack of progress so far is that it is far removed from the main centres of population. The people believe that they can get a better return for their labour in other parts of the Commonwealth. The Northern Territory will not make any progress in the future if- some persons are given the right to rob their fellow citizens. In Canberra the government will not make allotments available except at a figure that the public will not pay. The public knows better than the Minister the value of the blocks there. 
Anything that can be said regarding the principle of leasehold at Canberra, in the Northern 
Territory, or elsewhere, will, I think, have an effect upon honorable senators when they come to vote upon the proposal to destroy the leasehold system in the Northern Territory. The action of the government in the Federal Capital Territory has ' had a damaging effect, and for that reason I have referred to it. I should not be surprised to see introduced a hill to amend the law relating to the Federal Capital Territory. The Government is endeavouring to introduce this principle in the Northern Territory, because it is so far removed from the large centres of population. Its object is quite clear. It desires to make sore that the added value which is given to the land by increased - population and  public  expenditure, and which should go  to  the community, shall be passed on to some of those large land speculators, who, I believe, are the greatest curse that the world has ever produced. Its desire is to encourage them to take possession of the lands of the Northern Territory. That is, possibly, the most retrograde step- that has so far been taken by the present Ministry. .No one knows better than I do the extreme difficulty of securing the imposition of such taxation as will recover to the public at least some of the added value that it gives to land. The people in this and every civilized country are prepared to tax anything and everything except their respectable landlords. They appear to regard those individuals as sacred and outside the operations of the tax-gatherer. Why that should be I do not know. It is said that the granting of a freehold title is not a matter of very great importance. The contention is that, even though the freehold of the land is given, the state does not part with the right to tax the owners of the land. That is quite true ; but very good care is taken in every taxation measure to see that they are practically exempt. At the present time the whole of the land-owners of the Commonwealth pay a paltry £2,000,000 to the national revenue.  Senator Findley  very properly said that the land question is the basis of all our troubles. In the state of New South Wales the other day, under the freehold system, the Government made available three small blocks of land in the Grafton district. The following paragraph appeared in a paper that is published by my honorable and learned friend.-  Mr. A,  G. Huie, secretary of the Single Tax League in New South Wales : - 
The  Grafton Land  Rush. 
Three blocks of land having been made available in the Grafton district. 2,230 applications were received. The Lauds Department claims that this is not a proof of genuine land hunger. It would bo interesting to know what the department defines  as "  genuine land hunger." It  is  a matter of common knowledge that a great many nien have for years sought to acquire farming areas in vain. Even many who  succeed  in getting farms only do so after heartbreaking experiences. The fact of thu matter  is  that there is but little good Grown land reasonably accessible. The population is growing, so that &gt;n increasing number of people are after  a  diminishing supply of Crown lands. To say that such a condition of affairs docs not represent a genuine demand for land seems  to  us to be absurd. These land rushes, from time to time, no doubt, include many speculators, .hut the real demand is there all the time. And  it  will continue until we insist that land shall be put to  full  use. Tax land values so  as  to cut out the speculative element, and genuine land seekers will have a chance. 
If the full . annual rental of the land in the Northern Territory were appropriated by the Commonwealth Government, land speculation would be cut out, because no one would want to own land there merely for the sake of holding it. One's sole reason for acquiring land is that it places one in a position to legally rob one's fellow citizens. When the Duke of Manchester, out of money extracted from his victims in Birmingham, became the owner of land in Sydney North, he and other " shrewdies " associated with him, built a bridge across an arm of North Harbour. But. before he was able to pass the land on to the expected victims, the so-called land boom burst, and he " fell in." Since then, however, the population of Sydney has increased, and land which at that time was worth only 5s. a foot, is now worth £25. The Duke of Manchester did not get the increase, but others did. Under a system of leasehold, all that increment would have become the property of the nation. I cannot understand why we should seek to continue in the Northern Territory a condition of affairs which has created such ill conditions in other countries. I am informed on' very good authority that housing accommodation is very scarce in Melbourne. I know it is scarce in Sydney. Overcrowding is more prevalent there to-day than it has been at any time in its history. Despite the Fair Bents Court, rents are higher than they have ever been before, and the price of land is higher to-day than it has ever been. Yet we are asked to agree to the abolition of the leasehold system in the Northern Territory, and to perpetuate there conditions which are a disgrace to our capital cities. Our boasted intelligent Australians are compelled to live on small, miserable, contemptible, microscopic allotments, 20 feet by 100 feet, and it takes them all their time to pay the licence demanded by some land speculator, even for the right to occupy such small areas. The state Parliaments have done every thing they can to protect, land speculators from taxation, and now the Federal Government calmly proposes to uproot the very legislation its most prominent members were a few years ago responsible for placing on the statute-books. I venture to say that there are on the Ministerial bench to-day four honorable senators who were most active in insisting on the application of the leasehold principle, not only to Federal Capital Territory, but also to the Northern Territory. Evidently pressure has been brought to bear upon them from some unseen source, and they now propose to root out. the legislation for which they themselves were responsible a short fifteen years ago. On page 216 of the  Commonwealth Year-Booh  of 1921 we are told that in 1921 there were 774,126,28s acres of land still in the possession of the Crown. Honorable senators opposite talk about migration. Why do they want migrants? It is because they stand behind the people who own the land.. Their sole reason in advocating the granting of a freehold title to land is not that people may own blocks, but that the vacant land owned by their friends may become more and more valuable. And, not content with having the rest of Australia at their disposal, they want to lay their hands on the Northern Territory. The freehold system has -been a failure everywhere. Why should the Northern Territory be singled out for this special attention? There has been no demand for this change, exceptperhaps from a limited number of land speculators or land-holders in the Nor- thern  Territory. There is no weapon so powerful as the ownership of land. The land-owner has others absolutely at his mercy. Honorable senators supporting the Government are willing to place, not only those who are now in the Territory, but others who may come there, at the mercy of, land speculators. There is no justification for the proposed change. It will not increase population in the Territory. 
It- is impossible for me to say how much land will be taken up in the Northern Territory under the freehold system, but I have no' hesitation in saying that if the land in the Territory were put up to auction tomorrow, it would all be taken up. 
It might not be all taken up if it were submitted at- an upset price fixed by the Government, but if the Government would put up the land in the Northern Territory to the highest bidder under the freehold system, it would see a phenomenal rush of buyers - not settlers, but speculators eager to settle the people coining after them. That is the reason for the introduction of this bill, and therefore I oppose it. 
I desire to place on record my protest against handing over to private individuals what should belong to the people of Australia. Alienation of Crown lands always appeals to me as daylight robbery. I am not saying that the Government is consciously acting as Ned Kelly would have acted, but, in effect, it is taking something from the people of Australia and handing it over to individuals who have no right to it, and who are not likely to develop it. 
I regret that  Senator Payne  places himself behind those who are, in effect, highway robbers. I am sure that the honorable senator would not have the courage to place a gun at the head of an individual at a street corner late at night. 
If the honorable senator saw an opportunity of making any money through buying a block there he would certainly do so; and if any other person of some standing wished to buy a block the honorable senator would be ready to lend him money at 12-J per cent. 
Interest rates have nothing to do with the bill under discussion. 
Order ! Such remarks are entirely irrelevant to the bill, and I ask the honorable senator not to proceed further along those lines. 
I shall protect the honorable senator from interjections. "  Senator McHUGH.  - I thank you, sir. In a- few years, no doubt, railways will be built in the Northern Territory, and if the great development takes place, which men who claim to be far-seeing predict, land values will considerably rise. I do not know whether the Government proposes to sell these lands at Darwin, Newcastle Waters, Alice Springs or Adelaide, but in any case many people will find it inconvenient to attend the sales. Plans will be distributed presumably, and an auction sale may be held. I am afraid,  Mr. President,  that you are unable at the moment to say whether my remarks are in order or otherwise. 
Order ! The honorable senator, will resume his seat. He must not reflect on the chair. If any honorable senator wishes to make a communication to me he is entitled to do so.  Senator Foll  had a communication to make to me, and was entitled to make it. I warn  Senator McHugh  that the methods he is adopting will not be tolerated any longer. 
I have to pay attention to the Senate generally, as well as to the honorable senator who is addressing the . chair.  1  ask  Senator McHugh  now to discuss the bill. I shall not ask him again to do so. 
The land, the land ! It was God who gave the land; 
The land, the land, the land on which we * stand. 
Then why should we come begging with a ballot in our hand, When God gave the land to the people? 
Now we have a Government that wishes to take away that God-given right. It wants to give to private individuals the right to hand &lt;3own to other persons, worthy or unworthy, the land of this Commonwealth. Not one acre of it should be alienated, for it belongs to the people. The construction of railways builds up land values. In one or two portions of South Australia land has been sold at £1,500 a foot, although it was almost given away in the early days at £10 an acre. The added value was not created by the present owners, but was given by the expenditure of public money. Why should a few individuals in every city of Australia, by reason of the added value that has accrued to land, be able to dominate the Parliaments of the country to such an extent as to practically control the destinies of the people ? These individuals have . never produced anything, but the people have produced a great deal for them. I have much faith in the central portions of Australia, and it is regrettable to find that the present Government is' prepared to deprive the people of the benefit of the increase in value which will result from the expenditure of public money there. Many other lands in Australia have already been given away. Unfortunately, the Northern Territory pastoral areas have been alienated until 1965, and now the Senate is asked to agree to give other portions of the Territory away in perpetuity. I am afraid that when the Government secures the passage of the present bill, as it no doubt will, for it has the necessary numbers, it will proceed to alienate the pastoral lands, too, in perpetuity. The Government will do anything for those who find its party funds.. A railway line and the development of this great territory do not count with them, and the people of Australia do not count, so long as they can help those who provide their party funds and who dominate their political machine. It was said by interjection this evening - I think by  Senator 
Greene - that a leasehold was in the nature of a freehold. I disagree with that view, for the reason that leasehold land may, if an honest government be in power at the time of the expiry of the lease, revert to the government, whereas freehold land never can. If a weak government be in power at  the time a lease expires, the land invariably reverts to those who were in possession of it. It is a fact worth noting that station hands, almost without exception, in their advanced years have to apply for the old-age pension, whereas pastoralists, generally speaking, are worth anything from £100,000 to £250,000 at the time of their death. 
I told  Senator McHugh  that I would protect him from interjections, and I must ask the Minister not to interject. 
Order ! The honorable senator must not continue in that strain. 
The honorable senator's remarks may be interesting, but they are not relevant to the bill. 

 - Senator Wilson's smiles have nothing whatever to do with the bill. I have warned the honorable senator several times that he must confine his remarks to the measure before the Chair. I want him to be relevant and to avoid tedious repetition. I shall not warn him again. 
lt is quite easy for the honorable senator to make his remarks relevant to the bill. That is all I have asked of him, but he has failed lamentably. 
I only ask the honorable senator to be relevant. 
I ask the honorable senator once more to speak to the bill. 
Order ! I have already warned the honorable senator that he must make his remarks relevant to the bill. This bill deals with the administration of the Northern Territory, and it cannot be regarded as a mere peg upon which to hang a dissertation about anything and everything. I direct the honorable senator to resume his seat on the grounds of his irrelevancy and tedious repetition. 
There are only two points in the debate to which I wish to refer. One was raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham),  who pointed out that the principle of leasehold was applied to the Northern Territory some fifteen years ago by a Labour Government, of which I was a member. He appeared to derive considerable satisfaction from pointing out that I am now responsible for bringing forward a bill  in  which it is proposed to apply the freehold principle to the Territory. I freely admit that that is so, I am fifteen years wiser than I was fifteen years ago. 
I can quite understand some honorable senators opposite ridiculing the statement that one can grow wiser as one grows older, for they have had the experience of growing older without growing wiser. 
A crooked mind always imagines crookedness in others. I suggest to the honorable senator that he should be the last in this chamber to refer to any one growing crooked. 
I ask that  Senator McHugh  shall withdraw that interjection, for it is grossly offensive and untrue. 
Fifteen years ago the leasehold principle was applied to the Northern Territory. Since that time the Territory has not progressed. It is quite true with regard to a great part of the Territory that this stagnation is not due to the principle under which land is held, but it is likewise true that that portion, of the Territory suitable for agricultural purposes, which is adjacent to the existing railway, has also been stagnant. Agricultural land lying alongside the railway line has been available for leasehold under the most generous terms, but it has not been taken up. I believe that that is an indication of the failure of the leasehold principle as applied to agricultural lands. It has convinced me that it is so, and it is because of that that I have changed my opinions in regard to leasehold land for agricultural purposes in the Northern Territory. If we are to induce people to undertake agricultural pursuits there we must give them more generous and favorable conditions than prevail elsewhere in the Commonwealth. 
It relates to agricultural and town lands, and not pastoral lands. This open confession no doubt carries its own conviction to honorable senators opposite, because they cannot see that it is possible for men to honestly change their opinions when they find themselves in the wrong. I would suggest that honorable senators opposite look back upon their own careers. If they do they will remember that they have changed or profess to have changed their opinions, not because the system which they once advocated has been  demonstrated to be a failure, but simply because it has become unpopular amongst a certain section of the community. There was a time when they advocated universal compulsory military training. Where do they stand now! 
I do not propose to pursue that subject, but I could very easily give further illustrations of a very unpleasant character to honorable senators opposite. 
It does not cover pastoral lands. The other point upon which I wish to speak is one mentioned by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham), Senator J.  Grant and  Senator Findley,  all of whom seem to think that as soon as it becomes known that the Government intend to grant freeholds for agricultural purposes in the Northern Territory there will be a rush of land speculators.  Senator J.  Grant supplied proof to the contrary when he said that there are 467,000 acres of freehold land in the Northern Territory today, most of which is near the principal town in the Territory and is adjacent to the railway. What is the value of that land to-day? 
Practically nothing. I doubt very much if it could be sold for 6d. per acre. According to the glowing stories of  Senator J.  Grant one would think that it would be worth so many pounds per acre; but, as a matter of fact, it has little or no value. Instead of speculators rushing to the Territory they seem to be keeping away. Whenever land speculators turn their attention to land values in the Northern Territory it will be because the Territory has become an agricultural proposition. It is not going to be without the assistance of human agencies. We have to induce men to go there to cultivate the soil and to demonstrate its value for agricultural purposes. 
It will never bc worth more than it is to-day until that is done. To imagine that we are likely to induce men to go to the most distant part of the Commonwealth under most unfavorable conditions, and take up leaseholds for agricultural purposes, when they can go to any state in the Commonwealth and obtain freehold land which they can work and upon which they can bring up a family under the most congenial conditions is, to say the least of it, unreasonable. 
For pastoral purposes, and they will continue to be held under the leasehold system. We shall never get the enhanced value of which  Senator J.  Grant speaks until we first attract the population, and that cannot be done under the leasehold system. I remind honorable senators that in the case of the Federal Capital Territory mentioned by  Senator J.  Grant the banks are to-day refusing to advance money .on leasehold blocks there. If that is the case there, where leasehold land is almost equivalent to freehold land, is it likely that the financial institutions will advance money on agricultural land in the Northern Territory, which is admitted to be the most risky and doubtful agricultural proposition in the Commonwealth. 
On the 16th July  Senator Gibbs  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs the following questions: - 
What number of temporary clerks now employed in the Customs Department, Sydney, are to be retrenched on the 31st July, 1925? 
What is the reason for such retrenchment ? 
How many married men have received notice that their services will no longer be required after that date? 
How many are returned soldiers? 
Will the Minister, in view of the great difficulty of securing employment in other avenues at the present time, consider the question of retaining the services of these employees? 
The Minister has now furnished the following replies: - 
Fourteen. 
The filling of vacancies on the staff of this department from the list of excess permanent officers in other Commonwealth Departments, and from the list of successful exa- minees at the returned soldiers' examination, which comprises 400 returned soldiers. 
Thirteen. 
Thirteen. 
This matter is entirely outside my control, the action taken in dispensing with the services of these men being by direction of the Public Service Board of Commissioners for the reason given in reply to No. 2. It most be added that there are still 22 returned soldiers temporarily employed in the Customs Department in New South Wales. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon  notice- 
What was the total amount paid to invalid and old-age pensioners for the last two financial years ? 
How many of the personsin each state who received pensions are inmates of a home, asylum, or other charitable institution? 
What is the total amount of money paid to the various statesin respect of these pensioners ? 
What is the total amount saved by the Commonwealth Government (each state separately) as a result of these persons entering homes, asylums, &amp;c., as compared with the amount they would have received had they not entered such institutions? 
The Treasurer has supplied the following answers: - 
£13,323,153, being £6,426,752 in 1923-4, and £6,896,401 in 1924-5. 
At 30th June, 1925, the number of pensioners in benevolent asylums was 4,997. It is not possible to say how many pensioners were inmates of other charitable institutions at that date. 
During the year ended 30th June, 1925, an amount of £96,504 was paid to the authorities of charitable institutions for the maintenance of pensioner inmates. 
If pensioner inmates of benevolent asylums were receiving pensions outside, the additional cost would be approximately £50,000 per annum. The amount in each state would be as under : - New South Wales, £16,000; Victoria, £ 11,500; Queensland, £8,500; South Australia, £5,500; Western Australia, £6,500; Tasmania, £2,000; total, £50,000. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Is it a fact, as reported in the  Age  a few days ago, that  Senator Drake-Brockman  is making some secret investigations on behalf of the Commonwealth Government whilsthe is abroad ? 
If so, what is the nature of the investigations? 
What are the exact duties to be performed by  Senator Drake-Brockman  whilst he is abroad ? 
The right honorable the Prime Minister has supplied the following answers: - 1 and 2. No such secret investigations are being made on behalf of the Government by  Senator Drake-Brockman  while he is abroad. 

 Senator Drake-Brockman's mission is to attend the sixth session of the Assembly of the League of Nations, which will open on 7th September, at which he will be one of the Australian delegates.  His  duties' abroad will be confined to acting in this capacity. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence,  upon notice - 
Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to a paragraph appearing in the Melbourne  Herald  of 18th August, to the effect that fleet orders issued by the Admiralty announce that service with a Dominion Navy, for example the Australian, will be considered as equivalent to service with the Royal Navy; that officers are liable to be appointed to a Dominion Navy if exigencies require; that preference willbe given to volunteers in making appointments, but that if the requisite suitable volunteers are not forthcoming officers will be detailed to such appointments in exactly the same way as to other appointments? 
Will such appointments by the Admiralty give preference to Imperial Naval Officers for high positions in the Royal Australian Navy as against Australian Naval officers? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow : - 
Yes. 2.. No. Officers are not obtained on loan from the Royal Navy when Australian officers suitably qualified are available. 
asked the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
Is he aware whether certain State Governments have announced their intention of establishingstate insurance on a compulsory basis? 
Is it the intention of the present Commonwealth Government to create a Federal Department of National Insurance? 
Does the Minister consider that, if this matter be left to the states, difficulties will arise on account of different schemes and varying benefits and premiums? 
Will the Government definitely announce whether or not it intends to legislate this session for national insurance in terms set out in the recommendationsof the Royal Commission on National Insurance? 
Will the Government take action, by means of a conference of Federal and state authorities, in order that a uniform scheme may be adopted throughout the Commonwealth ? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow :  - 
No; but there is already a system of compulsory insurance relating to unemployment in Queensland. 2, 3, and 5. These are matters of policy now being developed, and definite replies cannot, therefore, be given at present. 
As announced in the recent budget, the indications are that the researches of the royal commission will have been sufficiently advanced to enable the Government to consider the introduction of a national insurance scheme, at least in part. 
asked the Minister for Home and Territories,  upon notice - 
What is being done, so far as the Commonwealth is concerned, to complete railway communication between Canberra and Yass Junction ? 
Expert opinion is opposed to the construction of a railway from Yass to Canberra at present. The Federal Capital Commission is now negotiating with the New South Wales Railway Commissioners with a view to improving the existing train service to Canberra to more adequately meet the convenience of passengers from Sydney and Melbourne. 
.- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The measure provides for granting and applying the sum of £323,286 out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the service of the year ending the 30th June, 1926, for the purposes of additions, new works, buildings, &amp;c, and for appropriating the said sum. The services provided for in the bill are divided into two parts, as follow: - 1. Departments and services - other than business undertakings and Territories of the Commonwealth. 2. Territories of the Commonwealth. The principal items included are - 

<graphic href="111332192508202_2_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="111332192508202_2_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="111332192508202_2_1.jpg"></graphic>

I realize that this is not a bill that lends itself to elaborate debate at the second reading stage. Measures of this nature are brought forward as matters of urgency. The bill provides for the appropriation of £323,300 and should the works contemplated be delayed unnecessarily, unemployment might possibly be intensified. I shall, therefore, reserve any comments I may have to make until the bill is in committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 3 agreed to. 
Schedule - 
Department of Defence. 
Proposed vote, £244,736. 
I notice under the Department of Defence, and under the sub-heading " Civil Aviation Branch," an item reading as follows : - 

<graphic href="111332192508202_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

Like other honorable senators I take a keen interest in aviation, and I am pleased to note the progress that has been made in regard to it. But at the same time I think that it would be well for the department to take a commercial view of aviation. We have a school at Point Cook with a number of highly capable officers, and for some time men have been trained there for aviation work. The service of these men will be available if ever Australia requires it. Apparently the Government has gone to some trouble and expense to provide aerodromes, emergency landing ground, aircraft equipment and plant, and spare parts in the interests of the private companies that are operating. Why could it not go further and conduct the aerial mail services itself ? It believes in government ownership of railways, and the Labour party, at least, also believes in government ownership of steamers. Mails are carried by both rail and water to-day by the Government, and in my opinion there would be no difficulty whatever in arranging for them to be carried by aeroplane. Such work would be most beneficial to the skilled pilots at Point Cook. I understand that three private aviation companies are being subsidized by the Government for services which they are providing in different parts of Australia. I can quite understand that the people who now get their mails every 24 hours or so, instead of every two or three weeks as formerly, are reaping a considerable advantage from these services ; but the Government could do what private enterprise is doing. It has been said that one of the companies is making a big financial success of its venture in Western Australia, and that the Government is granting it a large subsidy. 
SenatorFoll. - On the mileage basis. 
I am not finding fault with the amount of the subsidy, but with the principle. The Government could encourage aviation more effectively by undertaking these services itself. Aviation is making rapid progress in almost every part of the world. Things that we could hardly believe to be possible yesterday are being done today. We have been informed by those who are better qualified to express an opinion than I am - and I think there is a good deal to be said for their views - that aircraft will play a big part in deciding any future wars. If that be so, we have all the more reason, in this country, for encouraging aviation in every possible way. I suppose there are planes in Victoria and in other parts of Australia which are not being utilizedto nearly their full capacity. On occasions like the visit of the American Fleet we are given displays by them, but I can see no reason why they should not be in constant service. Their use to provide mail services for various parts of Australia which are at present poorly served would be much more profitableto the country than is the present practice. Has the Government considered this matter carefully? 
And has it come to the conclusion that it is better to run these services by private rather than government enterprise? 
It does not to me. I am opposed to the principle of carrying aerial mails by private enterprise. I always favour government enterprise in preference to private enterprise. I ask the Government to reconsider its policy, and to carry out these aerial mail services itself. 
I endorse the statements made by  Senator Findley.  He has addressed himself to a most important matter. In my opinion the Government should assume complete control of aviation in Australia. It certainly ought to carry its own aerial mails rather than subsidize private companies to do so. I wish it to be understood, however, that I am not casting any reflections on the private companies which are doing the work. One of the pioneers of civil aviation in the Commonwealth - I refer to  Major Norman  Brearley, of Western Australia - has rendered splendid service to Australia in general and to Western Australia in particular. 
I do not suggest that. My proposal is that he, and others who are similiarly situated, should enter the service of the Government and continue to do the work. Men of the type of  Major Brearley  should be in the employ of the Commonwealth Government. As mentioned by  Senator Findley,  we have many capable flying officers who have proved themselves in time of war, but there are others who, I am sure, would desire the opportunity to traverse all the surveyed airways of Australia. The money paid in the form of subsidies to these companies could be very well employed in other directions. As we own and. control the Post and Telegraph Department and the State Governments own and control the railways used for the transport of passengers and mails, we should also own and control the air services established for the conveyance of passengers and mails. The Commonwealth Government is supposed to have a controlling interest in Amalgamated "Wireless (Australia) Limited, but the whole of that undertaking should be vested in the Government. As there is no joint control in connexion with our railways or postal and telegraphic services, there should not be divided control in connexion with wireless services. 
[3.351.- In regard to the item, " Provision of aircraft equipment and plant, including spare parts, etc., and the preparation of aerodromes," mentioned by  Senator Findley,  I may point out that these aerodromes will be useful for the requirements of civil aviation, as well as for defence purposes. When legislation providing the conditions under which civil aviation should be conducted was before this Chamber, no objection was taken to it. The honorable senator who spoke in favour of aviation mail services being owned and conducted by the Postal Department should remember that that department, does not own the motor cars, camels or pack-horses with which certain mail services are maintained. It is the desire of the Government to encourage civil aviation in every way, and to assist in providing improved services. If the suggestion of  Senator Findley,  which was supported by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham),  were adopted, Point Cook would be the only training school in Australia for aviators, whereas the services now being conducted in Western Australia, Queensland and elsewhere, provide opportunities for young men in other parts of the Commonwealth to become experienced aviators. 
Why should not the young men in the more remote parts of the Commonwealth have an opportunity to become aviators, instead of only those who live within a few miles of Point Cook? 
In due course air services will be arranged, wherever the traffic is sufficient to justify their establishment. It is the policy of the Government to encourage civil aviation in every way, and .that which is at present being done in this direction has, I think, general approval. 
I am sure that honorable senators on this side who have spoken on this proposed vote have no desire to restrict the opportunities of young men in other parts of the Commonwealth to become experienced aviators. It is incorrect to say that, because the flying school is for the time being in Victoria, we are restricting the opportunities of young aviators in the direction the Minister indicates. I thought that such ideas, had vanished, like the mists before the noon-day sun, when federation was - accomplished. I am not speaking from the Victorian point of view. 
Mails are at present carried by railways owned and controlled by the state, and aerial mail services should also be under the control of the federal authorities. Private companies, according to the Minister, are affording opportunities to those who are not associated with Point Cook to become efficient aviators. Would not the same opportunities exist if i:he Government carried on this service? Would it close the doors against ambitious young men in any part of Australia, and say, "You cannot enter this sphere"? I think that under Government control, the opportunities would be greater than they are now. This service would not have been on its present rooting had it not been for the initial exploratory work that was done by the Government, and the public money that has been expended in assisting private companies. Without that work and assistance, civil aviation companies would not have been so anxious to undertake the business, .md would not have been able to carry it to its present successful state. The Government should, therefore, seriously consider the advisability of taking over the service. From time to time civil aviation should be extended, not by subsidizing private companies, but by the Government itself engaging in this sphere of activity. The Minister  (Senator Crawford)  ought lo have told honorable senators how much by way of subsidy has been given to ;.he respective companies for the carriage of mails. 
We should have it. We should, further, be informed whether a contract has been entered into between the Government and the different companies, and what period it covers. 
Can the Minister say what is the total amount that the companies have received, and what period the contracts cover?   Senator Crawford.  - I cannot. 
There is an item, " Machinery and plant for manufacture of munitions not now produced in Australia - towards cost, £51,523." It appears to me that last year's vote was not expended. Although we are a distinctly protectionist community the Government, appears to be determined to send abroad for machinery and plant for the manufacture of munitions, that it says is not now ' manufactured  in Australia. Iron and steel works have been established here for a considerable number of years, and have been well subsidized. In addition, heavy duties are imposed upon goods that are imported from low-wage countries, in which sweated labour is employed. I should like to be furnished with details of the: machines that the Government claims cannot be manufactured in the Commonwealth. I sometimes take a walk through the Small Arms Factory at Lithgow. Quite recently I went through a number of other factories, in which I saw a considerable quantity of machinery, some of which had been manufactured in Great Britain, some in America, and some elsewhere. I can find no reason for not manufacturing that machinery in Australia. We are assured that that can be done. We have sui£'cient intelligence and grit, together with the other qualities that are necessary, to produce such articles, yet no step in that direction is being taken. Unless this is a Defence secret, I should like the Minister to disclose the nature of the machinery and plant that the Government says cannot be manufactured in Australia. 

 Senator CRAWFORD  (Queensland- Honorary Minister) T3.49]. - Out of a total of £71,000 voted last year, over £70,000 was spent. The honorable senator is quite mistaken in his belief that it is intended to spend abroad the whole of this amount. A great deal of it will be spent in the manufacture of tools in the Commonwealth factories at Lithgow and Maribyrnong, and a considerable sum will be expended in installing machinery. There are some machines that are protected by patents, and cannot, therefore, be made in either government or privatelyowned factories in Australia. Those machines must be imported. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Proposed votes (Department of Trade and Customs, £6,160; and Department of Health, £14,180) agreed to. 
Department of Markets and Migration. 
Proposed vote, £410. 
Can the Minister  (Senator Wilson)  tell the committee what position has been reached in regard to the triple migration agreement between the Imperial Government, the Commonwealth Government and the various State Governments ? We have heard lately that certain states have not indicated their willingness to sign it. I believe that Western Australia is about to do so, but can the Minister say whether any of the states have signified their intention of signing the agreement ? 
It is quite natural to expect that before the State Governments would become signatories to an agreement of such far-reaching importance they would ask for a great deal of information. It has been the endeavour of my department to supply that information.  Mr. Angwin  of the Western Australian Government, was in Melbourne this week seeking information m regard to certain points. They were matters of detail, but nevertheless, it was far better to have them settled before the agreementwas signed than that difficulties should arise afterwards. I understand that  Mr. Angwin  has returned to his state perfectly satisfied, and I hope that at an early date we shall have the final decision of the Western Australian Government. The position in regard to the other states is very much the same. I think we have almost reached finality and I shall be very disappointed if all the states do not sign the agreement at a very early date. All the small difficulties have been satisfactorily explained away and the states are now ready to get to work. 
I do not think the honorable senator is in a position to make that statement. 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Territories of the Commonwealth. 
Proposed vote, £57,800. 
Is it proposed to expend this money under the present arrangement or keep it in hand until the commission proposed to be appointed under the provisions of the Northern Australia Bill is in working order ? 
Proposed vote agreed to. 
Schedule agreed to. .  
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Speaking last night in reply to remarks of honorable senators on the second reading,  Senator Pearce  said that the object of the bill was to enable only agricultural lands to be converted into freeholds. We, however, on this side of the chamber, contend that' the clause proposes to abandon the leasehold system in favour of the freehold system, so far as the Northern Territory is concerned. I pointed out, on the second reading, that  Senator Pearce  wa3 a member of the Labour. Ministry which introduced and put. into operation the principle of leasehold tenure in the Territory, *..nd the right honorable gentleman, in his reply, said that we evidently did not realize that as a man grew older he grew wiser. With his eyes on honorable senators on this side he spoke of changing opinions. A change of opinion is entirely different from a change of principle. One does not change principles as one would change one's linen.  Senator Pearce  has every right to a change of opinion, and he may grow wiser as he grows older, but it is an entirely different matter when it is something of vital importance such as a change from leasehold to freehold. We, on this side of the chamber, have grown old with  Senator Pearce,  at one time marching with him, but now marching without him; but we have not changed our attitude upon that vital principle of leasehold tenure which the right honorable gentleman advocated on every platform on which he spoke as a member of the Labour Ministry, and as a member of the Australian Labour party. The principle which he then advocated is still adhered to by the people of Australia. He may have changed his opinion, but they have not. This vital principle still remains on the platform of the Labour party. During the last few months elections have been held in Tasmania, New South Wales, South Australia, and Western Australia and the people of each of those states have returned the Labour party with comfortable majorities.  Senator Pearce  may change his opinion, but he is out of step with the people. That he is no longer marching in line with the opinion of the majority of the people of Australia is evidenced by the fact that four states have recently returned the Labour party to power, and that in Queensland Labour has held office over three elections. 
The honorable senator's interjection reminds me of the old saying, that a drowning man will grasp at a straw.It is the only excuse that can be offered by our opponents for Labour's victory ; the statement is not correct. The Minister for Home and Territories stated yesterday that this amending bill is intended to apply only to land devoted to agricultural purposes, and he tried to justify his chauge of opinion by that suggestion. Section  11  of the act of  1910,  which is to be repealed, states: - 
No Crown lands in the Territory shall be sold or disposed of for any estate of freehold, except in pursuance of some contract entered into before the commencement of this act. 
That provision was passed fifteen years ago, and in it no mention is made of any particular class of land, whether agricultural, pastoral, urban, suburban, residential, or otherwise. The section says, "No Crown land inthe Territory shall be sold or disposed of"; but this bill provides for its repeal. It means that the Government will hand over to the highest bidder the glorious heritage that Australia possesses in that part of the Commonwealth. The Minister may smile, but it is a fact. In fancy I can hear the cheers of hundreds of people when the right honorable gentleman used to make similar statements to that I am now putting forward. Nothing has happened in the meantime to justify an alteration of this vital principle. When Parliament is shortly dissolved, and the people are called upon to elect their representatives anew, I have no doubt that they will endorse the principle that this Government is now renouncing and denouncing. If the Minister has changed his opinion, it does not necessarily follow that he has grown wiser of late years; but he has done more than change his opinion. He has departed from a principle which he once held dear, and which honorable senators on this side, his old comrades, still espouse. 
When the bill was before the Senate yesterday, and Opposition senators voiced their objections to the clause under consideration, we were hopeful that on the motion for the second reading we should be able to prevent the Government from parting with the lands of the Northern Territory. Although the numbers were against us then, we now have another opportunity of testing the question at this stage. I therefore move as an amendment - 
That after the word " repealed " the words " as from 30th June, 1935," be added. 
When the leasehold principle was embodied in the Northern Territory Administration Act some years ago, only one or two members of this Chamber expressed opposition to it, and the principle was agreed to on the voices. Fourteen or fifteen years have passed, and no Administration from that time up to the present has attempted to do what the present Government now proposes to do. No justification can be advanced for the course that the Government intends to pursue. The non-alienation of Crown lands is a cardinal plank of the Labour party's platform. 
No Labour man in Australia loses an opportunity to point out the advantages of the leasehold as against the freehold principle from a community view-point. What are the arguments advanced in favour of this alteration  1  The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce),  who has charge of this bill, said in effect that the leasehold principle was good as applied to the Federal Capital Territory. He also said, in effect, that the leasehold principle was good as applied to large areas in the Northern Territory, but bad when applied to small areas. Where does his consistency come in ? In regard to this principle, the Minister is neither fish, flesh, nor good red herring. He does not know wherehe stands on the matter. 
He is in favour of leasehold in one part of Australia, and against it in another. One of the reasons he advanced against it was that those in possession of lease-' hold lands found it difficult to obtain accommodation from financial institutions. If that is an argument against the leasehold principle, it could with equal force be applied to the freehold system. The Leader of the Senate knows, and all honorable senators opposite also know, that many men occupying freeholds to-day find it difficult to obtain financial assistance from banking institutions. In confirmation of that statement I need hardly remind honorable senators of what we have often done in this chamber, and what has been done in the other branch of the Legislature, to assist people' on the land. We know that many men engaged in the dried fruits industry, atRed Cliffs and Mildura, have been "up against it" on occasions, and are not, well placed today. They have sought and obtained from the Government financial assistance, probably because they were not able to get from private banking institutions the help they needed. A man, desirous of settling on land in the Northern Territory, would be more likely to obtain financial aid if he occupied a leasehold property than if he were in possession of freehold land, since the rental he would have to pay for leasehold would be small, as compared with the charges he would have to meet on a freehold estate. 
We know that those who occupy Crown leases are, and have been, in a better position to get assistance from the Government than those in possession of freeholds. Time and again they have sought and obtained assistance, in different directions, from the various Governments in Australia. Apart from the strong views that I and other members of the Labour party hold in regard to the leasehold principle, another reason I have for moving my amendment is that the Government has not received a mandate from the people to depart from that principle. The clause, therefore, should not come into operation until the date I have mentioned. 
The people showed approval of the leasehold system when it returned a Government pledged to that principle. This Government has received no mandate to depart from a system of land tenure which is fundamentally and ethically right. 
I know that other issues would be before the people. 
If this great issue could not be decided by the people, no other important question could. 
It was in the majority when this principle was approved of, and, therefore, it must have had the people behind it. As soon as the commission is appointed, big works will be commenced, and considerable sums of money will be expended in the Northern Territory. Its population will then increase. It is well known that during the progress of public works in such comparatively unknown areas important mineral discoveries are frequently made. The other day the Minister read, with pleasure, in which we all joined, a telegram which gave the result of an assay of some malachite ore obtained from a portion of the Territory. We all hope that during the construction of railway lines in various parts of the Territory valuable mineral deposits will be found. But, in any case, the building of railways will increase the value of the land. If the Government parts with any of these leaseholds it may happen in the not distant future that it will have to repurchase them in consequence of discoveries that are made. I object to the lands of the Northern Territory being parted with, but seeing that the Government is determined to adopt this policy, I trust that it will, at least, consent to hold its hand until after the people have had an opportunity to express themselves on the matter. As things are now it is quite possible that it will proceed immediately to give freehold titles to land there. This proposal, we are told, is to apply to town, agricultural, garden, aud tropical lands. The residents in towns in the Territory may find themselves worse off under the freehold system than they are now. They cannot be paying very high rentals for the leases they hold around Darwin; but if the land is told and they are not the purchasers  they  may find that they will be called upon to pay considerably higher rents. The leasehold system of land tenure affords people an opportunity to build their own homes and to develop agricultural and garden blocks. It is mere hyperbole to say that the substitution of the freehold for the leasehold system will spell progress for the Territory. I do not think that honorable senators opposite who have made such statements really believe them. 

 -(Senator Newland). - The honorable senator has exhausted hia time. 
If the amendment is agreed to the bill will practically be defeated. This is a somewhat circuitous method of achieving that object, but I hope that it will succeed. The Labour party will be in possession of the treasury bench long before 1935 and the present National party will have become a mere memory. It will be seen, therefore, that if the  amendment  is carried our object will Le attained. Since I last addressed honorable senators on this subject I have had ' an opportunity to secure some later figures than those I then quoted. A tabulated statement on page 216 of the  Tear-Book  of 1924 (No. 17), shows that 476,556 acres of land in the Northern Territory have already been alienated from the Crown; that the area held under lease or licence is 134,488,526 acres; and that that occupied by the Crown or unoccupied is 200,151,718 acres. It will be seen, therefore, that practically half a million acres are already held under freehold title. In spite of that fact the Minister for Home and Territories  (Senator Pearce)  calmly protends to us that if we alienate further Crown areas the Territory will become as populous and as prosperous as any other part of Australia. He has no justification whatever- for such an assumption. Why will we not recognize that the plain unvarnished truth is that people will not ostracise themselves by going to the Northern Territory? They prefer to live comparatively close to large cities where they can enjoy the comforts of modern civilization. The construction of a railway from Oodnadatta or from a point in Queensland, to the terminus of the present Darwin line, will not materially increase the attractiveness of the Northern Territory. It will still be too far from the centres of population. Fares and freight will be much too heavy to encourage people to use the railway to any great extent. The western portion of Queensland, which is already within measurable distance of existing railway lines, is very thinly populated. The same may be said of the outback portions of New South Wales, which contain land at least equal to that of the Northern Territory, the north-west portions of Western Australia, and the northern areas of South Australia. The only parts of Australia that are at all closely settled are Victoria, the coastal districts of New South Wales and Queensland, and, to a less extent, those of Western Australia and South Australia. Long stretches of the coastline from Albany to Port Lincoln are very sparsely populated. The few towns that are on that section of our coast are mere names on the map. I say that, not from personal knowledge, but from my reading about them. The Government has no mandate from the people to interfere with the system of land tenure in the Northern Territory. It might just as reasonably propose to substitute, the freehold for the leasehold principle in the Federal Capital territory. I have no doubt that that has been discussed in Cabinet. As a matter of fact, the Government has endeavoured in every way possible ta retard the progress of Canberra, and to bring the leasehold' principle into disrepute. 
I may be excused if I remind the honorable senator that during the war period it was quite unreasonable to expect any government to do other than to mark time in respect to the development of Canberra. The whole of our efforts, and those of the Empire during those years, were directed to something more important even than Canberra. That is why the Labour Government of 1914 and the National governments that succeeded it did next to nothing there. It is only during the last four or five years that Canberra has even in a small degree come into its own. 
Ihave never said anything of the kind. The Government deliberately fixed the upset price of the Canberra blocks so high that the public would not purchase them. 
SenatorPearce.  -  That is absolutely incorrect. Every block that has been offered has been sold. 
TheTEMPORARY  CHAIRMAN (Senator Kingsmill).  - The honorable senator has strayed somewhat from the subject before the Chair. 
I suppose, sir, that I have been led away by interjections. 
The TEMPORARY CHAIRMAN.The subject before the committee is an amendment to defer the operation of (the clause until 1935. 
I have no desire to challenge the accuracy of the Minister's statement. 
The TEMPORARY CHAIRMAN.Order ! 
Cannot I refer to that matter ? 
The TEMPORARY CHAIRMAN.Only by way of illustration. 
I can usually express my views in very clear language, and I regret if you, sir, cannot see that my remarks in regard to Canberra, and the attitude of the Government, have some bearing on the subject under discussion. Prior to the last general election, it was not stated that it was proposed to destroy even to the smallest extent the system of leasehold now in operation in the Northern Territory, and I challenge honorable senators opposite to produce anything to the contrary. The Government has no more authority to abolish the leasehold system in the Northern Territory than it has to do so in regard to Canberra. 
Apparently, it is not being done in a straightforward manner, but steps which are equally effective are being taken to achieve that end. If the Government was doing the right thing, thousands of building sites at Canberra would be made available. It is now proposed to revert to the freehold system in the Northern Territory-. The reason, so far as I can gather from the Minister, is that he is of the opinion - I do not say that he does not hold that opinion honestly, possibly, he does - that if Parliament agrees to the adoption of this retrograde move an increased number of people will direct their attention to the Northern Territory, and additional farmers will apply for land with the intention of becoming active agriculturists in that country. I understand that that is the objective of the- Minister, and, in that respect, it is remotely possible that he is correct. We have not found, however, that the freehold system in New South Wales has been productive of such a degree of settlement that one would expect rapid settlement to follow its adoption in the Northern Territory. Whereever we look we find considerable industrial unrest. 
The TEMPORARY CHAIRMAN.Order ! The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
It should be the aim of the Government to pass such legislation that it will be possible for the community to  live under the most congenial conditions. It is remotely possible that the members of the present Government really believe that in order to bring about a satisfactory condition of affairs in the Northern Territory, a partial destruction of the leasehold system is necessary. I believe they are occasionally honest in their intentions, but after a long study of the question I am unable to agree with them on this point. One of the reasons why I cannot view the question in the same light as they do is that wherever we look to-day we find that the problem of most pressing importance is that of land tenure. There is no industry so revered, respectable, or half so productive, as that of land ownership. If we carefully examine the records of the United States of America, of Great Britain, or even of Australia, we find that the governments of those countries have the strongest possible reluctance to impose, except in the lightest form, any taxation upon the owners of the land. In fact, strong efforts were made when federation was under consideration in Australia to so frame the constitution that it would be impossible for this Parliament to impose taxation upon incomes or upon land; but .fortunately the members of the federal convention concluded that the Commonwealth should have full powers in regard to taxation. Notwithstanding the right conferred upon the Commonwealth, it was not until war broke out that those in authority had sufficient courage to impose taxation for revenue purposes upon owners of land in the Commonwealth. Governments have been relieved of their responsibility, because other means are employed- to replenish the coffers of the Treasury. We tax incomes most relentlessly. We refuse to permit persons to leave . the Commonwealth until they have proved to the satisfaction of the Commissioner of Taxation that they have paid their taxes. We tax goods made in low wage, foreign protectionist countries to such an extent that when motor cars, for instance, arrive here they are taxed on an average of about .£60 on each vehicle. When a woman has the misfortune to lose her husband, the money left her is heavily taxed, and in many other directions heavy taxation is imposed.  Senator Duncan  stated by interjection, to which I did not reply at the time, that the freehold fanners in the Northern Territory will be potential taxpayers; but the honorable senator must surely know that we on this side of the chamber advocate exemption from taxation of land of an unimproved value of £5,000. This proposal, which we have most rigidly advocated, has had the support of such men as  Mr. Holman, Senator Lynch,  the late  Mr. T.  J. Ryan,  Mr. James  Catts, and a number of others, nearly all of whom are now outside the Labour movement. The Nationalist party, on the other hand, stand for total exemption. Since it has been in office it has reduced very considerably the land values tax, and I have no doubt that it would like to reduce it still further. 
On one occasion the land tax was reduced by 20 per cent. 
The Government does not show a desire to collect the tax that is now imposed. 
I point out to the honorable senator that there is nothing in this clause relating to the taxation of land. 
Order ! I am beginning to believe that the honorable senator is deliberately straying from the subject under discussion. The section of the principal act that this clause seeks to repeal reads as follows : - 
No Crown lands in the territory shall be sold or disposed of. for any estate of freehold, except in pursuance of some contract entered into before the commencement of this act. 
The honorable senator must confine himself to' a discussion of the repeal of that section. 

<graphic href="111332192508202_12_0.jpg"></graphic>

Honorable senators will see that, although the population of Australia does not exceed 6,000,000 persons, over 169,000,000 acres of land have been alienated. We know very well that the owners of that land are not using it, but, on the contrary, are holding it in order to fleece those whom they may entice to Australia under our immigration laws. The main object of the Government's immigration policy is to increase the value of those areas. The alienation of that 169,000,000 awes has not led to the state of prosperity that the Leader of the Government  (Senator Pearce)  has assured us will result in the Northern Territory if we consent to the alienation there of land that is at present held by the Crown. We are justified in opposing this retrograde step. Some persons who oppose the glorious principle laid down by Henry George, of the taxation of un improved land values for state and federal revenue purposes, say that that principle could be applied if the land had not been already sold. It is not too late to apply the principle to the Northern Territory, where the land is still the property of the Crown, with the exception of 500,000 acres that South Australia alienated before the Commonwealth took over the Northern Territory. Australia will probably borrow millions of pounds to- construct harbours, railways and roadways in that great territory, solely iii order to increase the value of the freehold areas, and the rentals of those that remain the property of the Crown. 
The honorable senator's time has expired. 

 Senator GREENE (New South Wales) [4.591. - I should like, through you, sir, to say a word or two to my honorable friend,  Senator J.  Grant. We all thoroughly understand and appreciate the earnestness with which he approached this matter. We know that for a long time he has been an intense student of this vexed question. But whilst giving him the credit that is his due, I differ from him in several important respects. First of all, I should like to correct a statement that he made regarding the Labour party's policy in relation to freehold as opposed to leasehold tenure. He stated that one of the reasons for the objection of the Labour party to freehold tenure is that it throws out of the field of taxation a vast area of country, because the Labour party stands solidly for an exemption from taxation up to a' value of £5,000. That is not correct. If  Senator J.  Grant had said that, in relation to the Federal land tax, the Labour party stands for au exemption from taxation of all land up  to  an unimproved value of £5,000, I think that he would have been correct. 
That is not the impression that the honorable senator's speech conveyed. As with every other party, the Labour party considers all land to be a fit subject for taxation. It has held office in the various states, but has not yet seen fit to repeal the existing land taxes in those states. 
Of course, I am aware of that. But the Labour party has not made the abolition of the land tax a plank of its platform. I rose, however, more particularly to suggest to  Senator J.  Grant that he is losing sight of the fact that we cannot afford to regard these practical questions from a purely abstract stand-point. I can see virtues in both the leasehold and the freehold system. The circumstances surely should weigh with us when considering the wisdom of adopting a particular class of tenure. The real test of the value of any form of tenure is, what can a man who uses the land get out of that tenure. Looking at the matter from a broad aspect, I have not the slightest doubt that  in relation to rural lands the leasehold tenure suits the rich man and the freehold tenure the poor man. I ask honorable senators to bring to bear upon the consideration of this matter the test of their own experience, and to tell me how many poor nien who are land-holders have gone in for leaseholds, and how many rich men have gone in for freeholds. I think they will find that the holders of leaseholds are infinitely greater among the rich than among the poor. The reason is a very simple one. I remember very well some land along a creek being thrown open al one time in the district from which 1 come. It was dense tropical forest from one end to the other, but it was magnificent country that had no superior in Australia. Along one side it was thrown open under what we in New South Wales call " Conditional Purchase Conditions." On the other side it was thrown open as homestead selections. The first was a freehold, the latter a leasehold, tenure. On the one side of the creek, under conditional . purchase conditions, a man had to spend five years before he could get a certificate which would entitle him to transfer the land. On the other side, the holders did not get a certificate under which they could transfer the land. It was held under leasehold with residential conditions. Both areas were thrown open and taken up at the same time. One block was taken up by a gentleman whom, no doubt.  Senator J.  Grant knows very well, because he used *to stand alongside the honorable senator in support of Henry George's theories. True to his principles - unlike some honorable senators I could mention - this gentleman did not take up a conditional purchase selection, but chose a homestead block. The men who took up these holdings were all workers, and to the extant of their ability they set to work on that virgin country. Any one who has had any  experience knows that a poor nian cannot make very much progress in developing n scrub farm until he gets some money. All these workers put in their five years, and then in the following two years a most wonderful change came over the scene. On one side of the creek one would find not a stick of scrub on any holding, decent homes on each block, decent bails, and decent herds. On the other side of the creek the g renter part of the scrub was still  standing,  and the holders were still living in the bark humpies they put up when they first went there. They were, still struggling. Not one of them --va? making a decent living. It was not very long -before the men on the homestead blocks began to agitate for the same  tenare  as was on joyed by the men on the other side of the creek. They had had their object lesson. They had seen their neighbours on the other side, their residential conditions having been completed, go to the banks with their certificates of title, and ask for advances, and get them without any trouble. The assistance thus afforded to them enabled them to develop their holdings immediately, and in a very short space of time placed them in an independent position. And it was not until the New South Wales Parliament saw fitto give the other men the same conditions that they also made any progress whatever.  Senator Grant's  friend was one of those who agitated most vigorously for the change. If any one wanted an objectlesson on the immense value of the freehold title to the poor man, it was available in that particular instance. 
I have no doubt that if one had a knowledge spreading over the whole of Australia of the result of the various efforts to apply leasehold tenure, particularly to country land, one would find instance after instance of the kind I have illustrated as having come particularly under my notice. I remember very well meeting  Senator Grant's  friend in Lismore. He was laying down the law at a street corner, as he was wont to do in the Domain. I said to him, " That is not what you used to tell us in the Domain." He said. " Ah ! I did not . own any land then." We must bring to bear on these matters cur own practical knowledge of affairs. It is useless to stand for some abstract principle. We have to ask ourselves what best suits the man who is going on the land. What the Minister is proposing to do in the Northern Territory will apply to a very limited area of country, and will be only in the nature of an experiment to ascertain whether it is possible to bring about that class of settlement he hopes to establish in the Territory. I am perfectly satisfied that the only practical way of making it a reasonable success, if there is anything in the scheme at all, is to give to the poor man who proposes to settle on the land of the Northern Territory a chance to get a title to his holding. Under leasehold tenure he would not have a dog's chance of making a success unless he had some one with capital behind him to back up his efforts. My practical knowledge leads me to believe that we shall be perfectly safe in granting freeholds to these people. To con- jure up visions of vast areas in the Northern Territory passing out of the hands of the people is useless. I am perfectly certain that the great pastoralists, who must be the means by which the Territory will be developed for many yearsto come, will never attempt to secure the freehold of their big areas. It would not pay them to tie up so much capital in acquiring freeholds, particularly when they are given a reasonably long tenure which is quite sufficient to give them security for the improvements they effect. There is in what the Minister proposes, not only safety, but also common sense. 
I regret very much that I failed to make myself clear to  Senator Greene  in regard to the attitude of the Labour party towards land tax exemptions. I endeavoured to point out that the Federal Labour party's platform provided for an exemption of £5,000 in every estate. I might also say that thanks to men like J. L. Trefle and W. A. Holman, as well as a number of others who are not in the ranksof the Labour party to-day, that party in New South Wales stands rigidly for an exemption from state taxation of £5,000 in value in every estate. The result is that, notwithstanding the enormous value of land in New South Wales, the land-owners of that state, with the exception of those in the Western division - whose total payments amount to only about £3,000 - do not contribute a penny towards the revenue of the state. 
It is too high. 
Honorable senators listened attentively, as they always do when  Senator Greene  is speaking, to his very instructive address, during which he dealt almost entirely with land taxation, and the leasehold system of land tenure as opposed to the freehold system. I propose to follow him. 
The TEMPORARY  CHAIRMAN  The honorable senator will not do so while I am in the chair. 
No matter who is in the chair I shall follow  Senator Greene.  On one occasion I took the trouble to enlarge very extensively on the attitude of the Labour party towards land taxation. The very latest effort is the proposal of  Mr. Collier,  the Premier of Western Australia, to impose a land values tax with a very small exemption. However, I shall come back to the main question before the committee. Some time ago I took the trouble to visit the southeast corner of Queensland. I was anxious to obtain personal knowledge of how the leasehold system in operation on a stretch of country between Coolangatta and Tugun, on the Queenslaud coast, was working so far as building sites were concerned. The beach there is one of the finest in Australia. Along it people can bathe all the year round. At first the Queensland Government made available a considerable number of freehold building sites at Tugun, and a large number of these sites were taken up by prospective builders, some of whom built homes on them. The Government next made available a mile of country on the leasehold principle. An upset price was fixed, but as no building conditions were laid down, the result in that case is that there is upon that mile of country only a solitary notel and a few other buildings. Realizing that it had made a mistake the Government, when it made the next mile of country available, laid down the condition that £25 worth of improvements must be effected on each block, otherwise the block would be liable to forfeiture. Some people built houses on their sites, but many others merely fenced them. They were nursing them for a prospective rise, just as hundreds of thousands of people are doing in all the states. The Government then leased another mile, but decided that the £25 must be spent upon the erection of a building, with the result that almost every block was built on, and the area was put to the use for which it was intended. Under the leasehold system the persons who acquired the blocks were not obliged to part with the whole of their money to the Government ; they merely paid each year not more than the full annual rental value of the blocks. The leasehold system at Coolangatta has proved a huge success, because conditions were laid down which provided for the land being put to the use for which it was intended. In the same way the Federal Government has laid down building conditions in regard to the building sites at Canberra. I agree with  Senator Greene  that the north coast of New South Wales is probably the finest country in the world. Yet we find the land-owners there moving heaven and earth in protest at having to pay anything in accordance with the value of the land they hold. Under the leadership of the so-called Progressive Country party in New South Wales, they even went so far as to threaten to withdraw their support from the Nationalist party unless the Land Valuation Act was amended, giving them the right to appoint their own valuators, thus enabling them to continue under the old valuations, under which they escaped paying fairly towards the construction of their own roads and bridges. They preferred to rely entirely for expenditure in this direction upon the taxation imposed by the Federal Government. When the Valuator-General went to the north coast he doubled and trebled the valuation of the land, and, on appeal, the courts in almost every case upheld his decisions.  Senator Greene  knows as well as I that a very large area of the north coast country is held onthe leasehold system. 
The north coast of New South Wales, of which I have some knowledge, is held very largely under that system. 
Yes. 
The honorable senator knows that they are, and the real owners live in comfort at such places as Mosman, Manly and Cremorne. 
The TEMPORARY CHAIRMAN.Again I must call the honorable senator to order. He is straying from the subject of land tenure in the Northern Territory, with which this bill deals. I regret having to call him to order so frequently, but it is absolutely necessary. 
We have been assured by  Senator Greene,  one of the strongest and most enthusiastic supporters of the Government, that leasehold is  a  failure in certain areas in New South Wales. I challenge that statement, knowing that a large area there is held under the leasehold system. The lessor, however, is not the Crown. The owners, who lease the farms, live at ease in and around Sydney. On the Tweed, the Clarence, the Nambucca and other rivers, more than 50 per cent. of the country is held under this class of lease. 
That may be; but surely the honorable senator would not, say that is an ideal system of land tenure. 
Honorable senators opposite are willing to do anything to avoid the payment of rent to the Crown. They favour the land shark and the speculator, for whom they are always " barracking." Why should it be necessary for a farmer to pay half the value of his produce to the land-owner ? That is called the share system, but it is regrettable that in a country as big as Australia a producer must give a land-owner half his proceeds for the right to live. 
When  Senator Reid  was in his prime he was worth listening to. He was prepared to "stonewall " in the Queensland Parliament from daylight to dark, but now he is as tame as a sucking dove. 
He was worse than that. 
I have no doubt of that, and he may be honest to-day, but he is taking a wrong view. Share farming should not be countenanced for a moment. 
But it is the thin end of the wedge for the termination of the leasehold system in North Australia. Under the bill the Government will be enabled to sell every foot of Crown land in the Territory. I challenge the Minister to deny the statement. Yet he has the temerity to suggest that this proposed departure from the leasehold system is so slight as to be hardly worth talking about. When this Government gets the wedge and the sledge hammer to work conditions in the Northern Territory may be as bad as they are in other parts of the Commonwealth. How many people in London to-day own the buildings in which they do their business? Probably not 1 per cent. of them. The same conditions exist in all big cities. The freehold system always has, and always will lend itself to the aggregation of large estates and to the payment of extortionate rents, whether for farming, pastoral, or building purposes. Honorable senators on this side would be recreant to the trust reposed in them by tens of thousands of the electors if they voted for this clause. At the last election I suppose that I received more votes than any candidate returned to this Parliament. I have always stood rigidly in favour of land value taxation, and my views on the leasehold as opposed to the freehold principle are thoroughly under- 
Stood.  Therefore, it is incumbent on me to do my utmost to convert the stiffnecked and cantankerous honorable senators opposite. 
The TEMPORARY CHAIRMAN.The honorable senator's time has expired. 
I am sorry that  Senator J.  Grant had not a further opportunity to voice his opposition to the clause. I hope that the Government's proposal will be defeated, but if that be impossible we may later on have an opportunity to delay the operation of the clause.  Senator Greene,  in a serious way, drew a picture of a happy section of settlers in certain portions of New South Wales. He made it appear that those with freehold tenure had, after a very short time, cleared their land, obtained financial assistance, and become prosperous and contented, while the other section, in occupation of leasehold land, although it was of a similar nature, had made no progress at all. 
I should like to know how men on the same class of land had failed to make progress merely by reason of a different form of land tenure. No matter what may be said in regard to the late Henry George, he was, in my opinion, one of the world's greatest citizens, and one of the few men who aroused interest throughout the world on the question now under discussion. Those who are familiar with his writings are aware of the difficulties that confronted him when he attempted to publish his book,  Progress and Poverty,  dealing with the hardships incidental to private ownership of land, under which system the economic rent is not obtained by governments. It was difficult for him to obtain a. publisher for his book, because it was at that time considered too revolutionary. A few of his friends, however,  cams to his aid, and a small number of copies of bis book were published. Afterwards it became a classic, and was translated into every known language. In this Chamber to-day we have in  Senator J.  Grant an ardent follower of Henry George. Although I do not go all the way with the single taxers,  I agree entirely with them on the subject of land value taxation. Returning to the picture presented by  Senator Greene,  I should like to know the names of the men who became so prosperous on freehold farms. I should like to know the conditions under which they- purchased them, and the period of time that elapsed after they took up the land in a virgin state until they became more or less prosperous. What handicap was suffered by the other farmers on leasehold properties ? If the former had to pay for the freehold there must have been an initial outlay of their capital, whereas the farmers who took up the land on the conditional purchase system had no immediate financial outlay to make. 
It was to the leasehold system that I. intended to refer.   Senator Greene  said that the leasehold system was good for large areas, and the freehold system for small areas. 
A man who has to purchase the freehold of his property is much worse off than one who has a leasehold. If land can he had at a nominal rental as a leasehold money that otherwise would be spent on a freehold is available for developmental purposes. It has been said that a leaseholder cannot obtain financial assistance on the security of his land when he desires it. We know, as a matter of fact, that in recent times both freeholders and leaseholders have been to the Government for financial assistance, because they have not been able to get it elsewhere. The owners of freehold land at Red Cliffs, Mildura, and parts of South Australia, who have been financially embarrassed, have had to come to the Government for assistance. What, then, becomes of the argument that a freeholder is more able than a leaseholder to get financial assistance from the banks? 
Apparently freeholders, also, have been unable to get assistance from the banks. 
No argument can be advanced to convince me that the freehold is better than the leasehold system from the point of view of the public. 
Red Cliffs has been wholly in the hands of the Government. The soldier settlers there were charged, I think, 30s. an acre for their land. 
I wish to offer a few additional remarks in reply to  Senator Greene's  speech. The very touching picture he drew in support of his contention that the leasehold system was for the wealthy man, and the freehold system for the poor man, really ought to be cinematographed.  It might be used to induce more migrants to come from Great Britain to Australia. He omitted, however, too many important details.  His  bald statement was totally unsatisfactory to me. I think we ought to prevent land speculation in the Territory. If leasehold is not more favorable to the poor man than is the freehold system, why on earth should I be advocating it, for the great bulk of my supporters are on the bottom rung of the social ladder. Those who are higher up can well look after themselves. I consider it to be my duty to watch the interests of the tens of thousands of men and women in the lower walks of life, who support me. If the leasehold system suits the wealthy man, why is it that land is not made available under it for building purposes ? Many years ago, a former South Australian Government made land available on the leasehold system for building purposes, but, comparatively soon afterwards, the leaseholders agitated for the conversion of their leaseholds to freeholds. 
That is quite likely, for the way of reformers is always hard. 
I do not think the people who live in those houses will ever become the owners of them. 
I am not prepared to controvert the honorable senator, for he ought to know the facts. When I was in South Australia, a few years ago. I made it my business to inquire into the circumstances connected with the granting of leasehold land there for building purposes, and I know that the leaseholds were very soon afterwards converted into freeholds. Something of the same kind occurred at La Perouse, near Sydney. The building conditions there, however, were so onerous that no poor man was able to comply with them. The result was that the leases were abandoned. Subsequently, the Fuller Government, which has just been defeated in that state, made the land available to the highest bidder.  Senator Newland  must know very well that the ordinary working man on the basic wage finds it almost impossible to pay  £5, £6,  or  £7  a foot for freehold land on which to build a home. 
I am afraid the honorable senator is a long way behind the times. A large number of people in New South Wales favour leaseholds as against freeholds. 
On the contrary, they consider themselves to be in the van. They consider it to be much more advisable to rent than to buy a home. The price of freehold land compels them to take that view.o If a working man attempts to purchase a home by the payment of a substantial deposit, it takes him very many years to complete the purchase. I heard the other day of a case of a very worthy citizen who was most anxious to buy a home of his own. He was told that if he paid so much down, and so much per week, he would complete the purchase in seven years. I questioned the accuracy of the statement. As the seller was not prepared to definitely assert that the position was as stated, I submitted the question to three schoolmasters, each of whom gave a different answer. It was ascertained, however, that instead of the principal being paid off within seven years the period would be much longer. We have had many years of experience of the freehold system which is in operation in Great Britain to-day. How many people living in such cities as Glasgow own their own homes? It is only in very rare instances that working men in Glasgow own the dwelling in which they live. 
It is true. 
Even if it is so, which I do not admit, that is an unusual condition of affairs. A building in Sydney contains about 64 flats, the occupiers of which have a freehold title of some description, but that is the only instance of the kind I know of in Australia. There are, however, tens of thousands of people in Glasgow who pay rent for the flats in which' they live. The renting system has been in operation in that city from time immemorial, and the same can be said in regard to London and other cities in Great Britain. I quoted yesterday a case of a lord, whose name I cannot at the moment recall, who as owner of all the land in the township of  Bootle,  in Lancashire, collects rents from all the townspeople. Holding, as he does, the freehold of the land, he is able to control the destinies of the unfortunate workers, as all landlords are able to do. 
They would be foolish to buy at his price. The freehold system suits the wealthy people, and no one knows that better than  Senator Greene.  Under that system our present housing conditions, which no one will dare to assert are not a disgrace to the Commonwealth, have grown up. In many parts of the Melbourne suburbs where workers congregate the houses and allotments are so small that they are a disgrace to the people who make the laws of the country, and also to their occupants. They are largely responsible for returning men to Parliament, who favour the freehold system. .1 do not blame certain honorable senators supporting the Government on this question, because they are obeying instructions, but I am satisfied that they are not acting in the best interests of the people of the Commonwealth. Judging by what I have read - and I read a good deal upon this subject - the effect of the Government's action in this connexion will be quite the reverse of that anticipated. We are informed that the banks and other financial institutions will not advance money upon leasehold land. Of course they will not. One needs only to make some investigations concerning the ownership of land in New South Wales to ascertain that the banking and other financial institutions are in possession of the bulk of the country. In these circumstances they are not, of course, in favour of the leasehold system. They believe in the freehold system, because it is a weapon in their  hands which enables them to extract practically everything from the people. If any one can show the banking institutions that by advancing money a huge profit can be made by cornering foodstuffs, assistance is readily forthcoming. It is their business to make money regardless of the circumstances. Sometimes the banks will not advance money even on freehold property, and only a few months ago banking corporations in Sydney would not advance money on any security. When a bank is approached for financial assistance the first question asked is whether the applicant has an account with it. 
We have had a fairly long- - 
I was about to say we have had a fairly long debate on this clause, and, according to the interjection of the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  the discussion has been, to him and his colleagues, more or less monotonous. 
The interjection is uncalled for. There has been a long discussion on a question of great importance to the Commonwealth and to the people of the Commonwealth. It may be considered a trifling matter by the Government and its supporters, but embodying as the clause does a principle of first magnitude, the somewhat lengthy discussion on it is justified. The Minister ia anxious to secure the passage of the bill, but the members of the Opposition would be lacking in their duty if they did not avail themselves of the opportunity to show that its main provisions are inimical to the best interests of the people of Australia. I am a strong opponent of the private ownership of land and a warm advocate of the leasehold system. What is the picture presented to any observant man in this or any other capital city in Australia ? We have in this comparatively young country slums which, according to overseas visitors, are a disgrace to socalled civilized society; In some instances two or three families are living in one house - and this linder the glorious freehold system. Thousands of families are living in tenements some of which are more or less insanitary and for which * exorbitant rents are being charged. Private ownership of land leads to congestion and in many instances congestion means that the people do not enjoy the best of health. At present a royal commission is inquiring into the causes of unemployment and the prevalence of sickness and invalidity, and I have no doubt that the evidence tendered to that commission will prove that the private ownership of land is indirectly responsible for much of the sickness prevalent in Australia to-day. We are anxious to provide the means whereby every man in Australia can obtain a home for himself and his family, and we on this side of the chamber are endeavouring to assist in that direction by informing honorable senators opposite that it is their duty, as well as ours, to protect the lives and  to  safeguard the health of the Australian people by making it possible for them to secure healthy homes of their own. According to documents presented to this Chamber almost every known mineral has been found in the Northern Territory. There is no magnetism so great as that which is exercised by the yellow metal. There may be very big gold discoveries in the Territory. If there are, the present population will be largely increased and greater prosperity will ensue. Naturally a demand for land will set in, resulting in increased values. The work that is undertaken by the commission, and the money that is expended, will add millions of pounds to the values of the lands in different portions of the Northern Territory. Those added values should belong to the community. When we hear honorable senators opposite saying that they believe in the leasehold system in certain cases, and advancing the view that that tenure favours the rich man, whilst the freehold tenure is more advantageous to the poor man, . we ask ourselves what is the reason for this eleventh hour zeal and anxiety for the poor man. Honorable senators opposite represent in this chamber not the great mass of the workers, but that section which politically is opposed to the class to which we on this side belong. Who should be more interested than members of the Labour party in the welfare of the man who is in a small way ? Is it reasonable to suppose that we would advocate a system that we thought was inimical to the best interests ofl our own class? We know that the leasehold system confers an advantage upon the poor man. Numbers of persons in the workaday world would be able to secure a home for themselves and families if they could lease a block of land. Take a piece of land worth, for the sake of argument, £400. Even though a working man had the money to buy the freehold of that land, would it not be better for him to pay at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum for the leasehold and utilize his capital in the erection of a home? Would the workman in Darwin to-day be better placed financially if the leasehold system were abolished in favour of the freehold? In Darwin and other parts of the Territory land is leased at a purely nominal rental, and probably some of the residents have erected homes on leased land. What will happen to those men if the lands are sold ? Under this clause the town lands at Darwin will be sold. Some of those persons may be dispossessed; they may not be able to buy the land. We know that the lands of Australia are getting into fewer hands. Big estates are increasing yearly. In some parts of Victoria there are upon the land fewer men than were there years ago. That would not have happened under the leasehold system. Yesterday and to-day we have protested against the proposal of the Government, and we shall continue to do so. I realize to the full what this will mean to the future government of the Northern Territory. I give place to no man in my desire to see progress made there. I fully sympathize with those men and women who live in that fardistant part of the Commonwealth. Figuratively speaking, they have pioneered the bush, blazed  the track, isolated themselves' from the big centres of population, and denied themselves those creature comforts that make for happiness and contentment. I want to see them happy and contented. I do not wish the progress of the Territory to be in any way retarded. I am satisfied that this is a backward move by the Government. It may, and probably will, mean the enrichment of the few, but it will eventually prove a handicap to the many. That has always been the effect of the private ownership of land in every part of the world. 
A very important aspect of this matter was touched upon by  Senator Findley,  when he referred to land-grant railways. Many years ago the Government of the state of Western Australia granted about 2,000,000 acres to the Midland Railway Company under the freehold system. That company has determinedly held on to the freehold of the land then granted to it, and it has been almost impossible, until lately, to secure payment of the nominal land tax that has been imposed by the Commonwealth Government. I understand that recently the company paid the amount which was owing by it. The railway from Perth to Albany also, I understand, was built under the landgrant system. If that system is introduced in the Northern Territory, what will happen? Look at the experience of Canada. The Canadian Government was approached by a number of wealthy people, and advanced, I believe, £5,000,000 towards the cost of constructing the Canadian-Pacific railway. In addition it gave the Canadian and Pacific Railway Company the freehold of alternate blocks along the route of the line - the total area so granted, being about 250,000,000 acres - for disposal to prospective farmers. The company disposed of the land at enormous prices. The right thing would have been for the Canadian Government to build the railway itself, and lease the land to the farmers. Instead of doing that, it placed thousands of farmers entirely at the mercy of the Canadian and Pacific Railway Company. It has taken some time to ascertain what is the objective of the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  in this matter. The Government is aware of the enormous wealth that has been amassed by the Canadian and Pacific Railway Company in Canada, and the Midland Railway Company in Western Australia, out of prospective land settlers. The Minister probably has that in mind when he seeks to obtain the approval of the Senate to the surrender of the lands of the Northern Territory to private individuals. The Government might proceed to construct a railway from Alice Springs to Borroloola or some other point on the Gulf of Carpentaria, and continue it through the Barkly Tablelands, and then dispose of the whole of the land on both sides of the line, as was done in Canada. 
The service that it rendered to itself was far greater. It was a splendid thing for the foundation holders of Canadian and Pacific Railway stock, but the people of Canada generally did not derive any advantage. 
I do not think that it is any more prosperous than Australia. The prosperity of Australia will not be increased in this way. We have had too long an experience of the freehold system not to know' exactly the way in which it works out. If it were a new idea we should have some hesitation in so strongly opposing it. It is exceedingly interesting to peruse the historical records of England. and to see how carefully, step by step, the freehold system has been built up. When the Norman robbers went across to England they obtained possession of large tracts of that country. They wished to give some of their followers the right to possession of that land in perpetuity. The system of disposing of land that we have in Australia to-day was not then in operation in England. They used to hold a general meeting, and agree to dispose of areas of land to their respective followers, and following on that principle in later years, the sovereign would allot certain portions of his country to some of his supporters. That was how the freehold system was built tip in Great Britain, where it has been responsible for a deplorable condition of affairs. I am informed on good authority that there are more than 1,500,000 free-born native-born Britishers who are at present unable to find remunerative employment, and are being supported by a system of contributions from the general revenue. Yet this is the system we are asked to perpetuate in the Northern Territory. When the Israelites came to Palestine, and the land was mapped out among the Twelve Tribes, it was laid down that it should not be sold for ever. 
SenatorCrawford. - Palestine is not so prosperous to-day. 
No, because the Jews broke the conditions under which the land was allotted to them, and sold it, with the consequence that they have been scattered to the winds. However, we do not require to go to Palestine for an example of the evils that follow the adoption of the freehold system of land tenure. We have a sufficient example in Great Britain, where the lords and dukes, the countesses, duchesses, and dowagers are all land-owners, and other people are only allowed to live in Great Britain oncondition that every quarter they pay their rent. The adage that an Englishman's home is his castle is all humbug. As a rule, he has no home, but lives in rooms rented from a landlord. We are asked to apply the freehold system to a huge area where less than 500,000 acres of land have been alienated. I have not heard that there has been any rush to cultivate the land already alienated. I feel certain that this 500,000 acres cannot be in one of the worst parts of the Territory, yet it is not making that progress we are assured the balance of the Territory will make if only this system which has brought about such a deplorable condition of affairs in England is adopted. I referred some time ago to the position in London. It is lamentable to see some of those titled lords, who never work or do anything useful, extracting week after week from the workers practically the balance of their income beyond what is absolutely necessary to enable them to keep on working. The freehold system is the finest thing devised for wealthy men, because it gives them the right to acquire land. We are assured by one prominent writer that the man who owns the land owns the people on the land. Nothing is more responsible for the unemployment that exists throughout the world to-day than the fact that there are people who own land and will not make use of it. I was amused at  Senator Greene's  attempt to deceive honorable senators. 
 Senator Greene  placed before us his views in regard to certain people on the north coast of New South Wales. I have had many opportunities to visit that part of the Commonwealth, but have never seen any cases such as he referred to. I do know, however, that there are many instances in which the workers there are not at all pleased with the conditions under which they labour. 
The TEMPORARY  CHAIRMAN  The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
I dare say that most honorable senators have forgotten a good deal of what  Senator Ogden  said last session in introducing this bill. I must confess that I, at any rate, had until I refreshed my memory by a perusal of the  Hansard  report.  Senator 
Ogden asked for support of the bill chiefly on the following grounds: - (1) That it was inconsistent for the Government to deal with Tatter sail's sweeps as an illegal business, and to re-, fuse to deliver letters addressed to Tattersalls, while levying taxes on the prize money; (2) that it was futile, because Tattersalls consultations were flourishing, notwithstanding the refusal of the Post Office to carry its letters; and (3) that Tattersalls was necessary to Tasmania. The honorable, senator dwelt upon this last point, and I shall quote one or two remarks he made  under  that heading. In one instance he said - 
I am not a very strong advocate of Tattersalls, and if I were a member of the  Tasmanian  Parliament, and the state could finance itself without its assistance I would favour its  abolition.  I am not an advocate of gambling. 
Again, the honorable senator said - 
If I had the power to decide whether an institution such as this should be legalized I would decline to allow it. But it is almost indispensable to Tasmania in existing circumstances, and I -would not be a party to throwing away the revenue of £200,000 per annum which that state at present receives from it. 
It is clear from those two quotations that  Senator Ogden  does not believe in Tattersalls on moral or ethical grounds, but he pleads for the passing of this bill on account of the alleged poverty of Tasmania. 
I should be sorry to believe that Tasmania is in as bad a position as it has often been represented to be in this chamber. I throw out the suggestion to  Senator Ogden  and other representatives of that state, that if they tried a little " boosting " they would find it more beneficial than alleging that their state is in straitened circumstances. Before federation the carriage of mails and the legality of racing consultations and lotteries generally had been dealt with by five of the states, all of which passed legislation designed to suppress institutions like Tattersalls . I believe that as far back as 1891, at a conference of representatives of the Postal Departments of the six states, a motion was carried to the effect that the Post Office should not carry letters in connexion with lotteries or racing con sultations. At that conference Tasmania was represented by two delegates, both of whom voted in favour of  the motion. Tattersalls began, I understand, in Victoria, and when suppressive legislation had been passed in this state it moved on to New South Wales, where the same fate overtook it. Then it "went to Queensland, and when suppressive legislation was passed there it finally found sanctuary in Tasmania. 
I am not speaking in favour of the Golden Casket. All states have passed legislation permitting the holding of art unions with the permission of the Minister, and I believe that it is under such legislation that the Golden Casket is beingconducted in Queensland at the present time. When the original Post and Telegraph Bill was before this Parliament, the section that  Senator Ogden  now wishes to amend was fully debated, and at least some of the Tasmanian representatives very strenuously opposed it. Parliament, however, evidently gave the matter considerable attention, and in the section sought to be amended there are no less than four provisions authorizing the Postmaster-General to refuse to deliver letters or any postal article to Tattersalls or any similar institution. The first is to be found in paragraph  a  which deals with " horserace or other race or any fight, game, sport, or exercise." So that if Tattersalls could not be dealt with as a racing consultation it could be as a gambling concern in connexion with 3port. Then in paragraph  b  there is a, provision under which if. can be dealt with as a lottery. That paragraph reads, "for promoting or carrying out a scheme connected with any such assurance, agreement, or security or a lottery or scheme of chance or an unlawful game." Under paragraph c it could be dealt with as an institution receiving " contributions or subscriptions towards any lottery or scheme of  chance."  I think it will be agreed that the public conscience of Australia would be against  Senator OgdenS  proposal. It is quite true, as he says, that this legislation has been futile to some extent, and that Tattersalls carries on in spite of it. It may not be possible by any action that the Post Office is -authorized to take to stop it or interfere with it to any great extent. But, surely if the Commonwealth Parliament is unable to put an end to an illegal action it should not become aiders and abettors of it, which -would immediately happen were the present bill passed. As to the inconsistency of the Government in refusing, through the Post Office, to carry mails to Tattersalls, and at the same time taxing prizes won in those consultations, the honorable senator is aware that that argument, if it may be called an argument at all, cannot be supported, since the Commonwealth no longer collects such a tax. 
The Commonwealth has ceased to collect it, and the state does as it pleases. I have no doubt that the state concerned is pleased to get a little more out of Tattersall's than it was previously receiving. I understood the honorable senator to say in introducing his bill that Tasmania had already received £1,750,000 from Tattersall's, and that the Commonwealth had received a little over £500,000 ; but, as I have already stated, the Commonwealth is not now receiving anything by way of taxation from Tattersall's. 
It may have been because of the honorable senator's eloquent speech in introducing his bill. 
Not only was there state legislation, prior to federation, to suppress lotteries,- but all English-speaking countries have enacted practically similar legislation. It will be found on the statute-books of New Zealand, South Africa, the United States of America, and Great Britain, as well as in Ceylon and India. Therefore, the legislation of the Commonwealth is not singular in this respect.  Senator Ogden  does not believe in the encouragement of gambling, and his main argument in favour of the bill is the necessitous circumstances of Tasmania. I am quite satisfied that every honorable senator sympathizes with the position of that state. We recognize its problems and needs, and are prepared to assist it in every legitimate way ; but I think  Senator Ogden  is asking rather much when he requests us to do violence to our conscience by passing this bill. 
The concluding words of the Minister  (Senator Crawford)  have brought me to my feet. I think that we have been doing violence to our conscience for many years by encouraging legislation of the class at which this bill is directed. I had intended to cast a vote in support of the bill without addressing the Senate, but now that I have risen I wish to say that the only justification that the Minister has advanced against the bill is that the Commonwealth no longer collects a tax on the winnings obtained through Tattersall's sweeps. Whilst this Parliament has declared for many years by its laws that these sweeps are illegal, people securing winnings from that source have been required by the Commonwealth to pay a tax on them. 
Exactly. Why not follow the action of last session to its logical conclusion, and accept postal matter addressed to Tattersall's?  Senator Crawford  said that various states agreed to pass legislation prohibiting the holding of lotteries, but his own state has departed from the undertaking, for it has legalized the Golden Casket lottery. 
Probably  Senator Crawford  has risked a shilling or two in it now and again. Perhaps he has even invested in Tattersall's. At least, he knows how to get a letter to Tattersall's. In spite of our prohibitive legislation, a heavy mail reaches Tattersall's regularly. I believe, with  Senator Ogden,  that we should not encourage cant and hyprocisy. Probably every member of this Chamber has at one time or other sent a remittance to Tattersall's. I dare say we all have invested ls. or so on a horse at some time. The plain fact is that gambling cannot be prevented by act of Parliament. I support the bill. 

 Senator C. W. GRANT  (Tasmania) [8.171. - I also support the bill. I agree with the views expressed by  Senator 
Ogden, lt is time 'that' the hypocritical attitude that the Government adopts towards Tatter-sail's, and which has been maintained almost since the federal income tax was first imposed, should be altered. Honorable senators know very well that when the tax was first imposed on prize money won by holders of Tattersalls tickets, the Commonwealth Government, by various means, endeavoured to trace all the persons who had won prizes in Tattersalls in the preceding three or four years. It tried to collect the tax as from 1915. Now that it no longer imposes the tax it might be said that it has justification for refusing to deliver letters, but I can see no force in that argument. Letters for other gambling institutions are carried through the post. Bookmakers are able to get their letters through the post in the ordinary way. No attempt, has ever been made to prevent letters from reaching the management of the Golden Casket lottery. 
Tasmania is flooded, week after week, with books of tickets for lotteries in Queensland, New South Wales, and other parts of Aus-' tralia. Our people have become thoroughly tired of these repeated requests to subscribe to outside lotteries. No embargo is placed upon this class of mail matter except in the case of Tattersalls consultations. I consider that  Senator OgdenS  arguments are quite sound. It must be remembered that the continuance of the Tattersalls consultations is vital to Tasmania. She needs every penny of revenue she receives from that source. It cannot be said that the ex-Premier,  Sir Walter  Lee, was biased in favour of these sweeps, but he never felt that he could introduce a bill to abolish them. The consultations are run on absolutely fair lines and under government supervision. They are drawn in the fairest possible way and everybody has an equal chance. They are certainly a more desirable form of gambling than many .that 'aire legalized. The people who send their money to Tattersalls know that the 'chance of winning a prize is very remote, whereas if they put it on a racehorse they anticipate some return. It is generally recognized that the prospect of winning a prize in a Tattersalls sweep is so slender that no one would ever think of embezzling money to invest in it. The least that this Parliament can do in the interests of Tasmania is to permit letters to be sent direct to the promoters of . these sweeps. Tattersalls get their mail now by indirect means. We should permit them to get it openly. 
Tattersalls, as we know, is an important institution in Tasmania. It has been established for many years. The people who invest five or six shillings regularly in the consultations hope that if they cannot secure one of the principal awards, they may at least obtain a consolation prize. The chance of winning the first prize is very remote. I suppose the lottery is one of the best conducted in any part of the world. This Parliament, however, enacted special legislation many years ago to prevent letters from being delivered to the management. I must confess that occasionally I make a pilgrimage to Flemington and Caulfield, and even invest a few shillings on a quadruped that does not always travel as fast as I think it ought to do. I hope some day that I may be more successful in this regard. I have even been guilty at times of infringing an act of Parliament by sending a modest amount to Tasmania, but I have never yetbeen successful in winning a prize. I wish to say, however, that on principle I am altogether opposed to private monopolies. 
I am doing so. Why should we pass special legislation to assist a private monopoly? If we are to have a lottery, let the Government run it, and let the proceeds be devoted to charity or some other laudable object. If we give a special privilege to Tattersalls, we cannot reasonably deny it to any other institution that may feel disposed to run a lottery. What special claim has Tatter salls upon us ? 
Certainly no other state in Australia would legalize Tattersalls. 
Bookmakers may only operate upon registered race-courses. I do not dispute that the Tattersalls consultations mean much to Tasmania, but I have no hesitation in asserting that she  would have been far better off had she never legalized them. She would then have obtained her revenue from more legitimate sources. Governments are always tempted to take the. line of least resistance, and Tasmania thought the easiest way to raise revenue was to legalize these sweeps. That also afforded the Commonwealth Government an opportunity to tax the prize-winners. Notwithstanding the difficulties with which the promoters of the consultations are faced to obtain their mail, I feel that I, at any rate, am not justified in making conditions easier for them. 
There is no inconsistency in my attitude on this matter. The measure which it is sought to amend was placed on the statute-book very many years ago, and no government that has since been in power nas attempted to repeal it. For the reasons that I am opposed to private monopolies, that I consider we should not give special privileges to particular institutions, that to facilitate the means of communication would be to increase the number of consultations, and that I consider Tasmania could raise its revenue in a more legitimate way, I intend to oppose the bill. 
Twenty years ago the Commonwealth Parliament, in its wisdom, passed legislation prohibiting the carriage of mail matter to the institution in Tasmania known as Tattersall's. Prior to the passing of that legislation all the State Governments, with the exception of Tasmania, had refused to allow Tattersall's to carry on business in their respective states. 
Yes, by legislation. Consequently, the Commonwealth Government took action in support of the legislation passed by the states, since by carrying correpondence to Tattersall's it would have been assisting to defeat that legislation. Notwithstanding the efforts made by the Commonwealth and state authorities, it is well known that this business in Tasmania is flourishing. I have yet to learn that the institution itself has ever submitted a request for the introduction of such a bill as this. 
That may be so. 
It was not my duty to initiate any opposition to Tattersall's. My objection to the bill in this instance is based mainly on the fact that it is not in the best interests of the younger generation to facilitate the dispatch of communications to Tattersall's. The institution is well established, and the avenues through which remittances can be sent are well known to its patrons. In many parts of the Common wealth, particularly in Tasmania, notices bearing the words, "We send to Hobart to-night," are prominently displayed. I do not think it is the duty of this Parliament to pass legislation which will enable application-forms for tickets to be dispatched to every home in Australia, and thus facilitate the business pf Tattersall's. That is not in the interest of the younger generation, whom it is our duty to protect. The institution is well conducted, and has made considerable contributions to Commonwealth and state revenues, but, in the light of the experience of many years, 1 do not think anything has occurred which "would justify me in supporting the bill now before the Senate. 
.- -It has often been a matter of wonder to me why past acts of Parliament are always attributed to the wisdom of those responsible for them. As a mark of respect to those parliamentarians who have physically or politically disappeared, we always refer to measures passed by them as evidencing the wisdom of Parliament. But it is not always so, because, if it were, why are so many amendments of the various acts which appear on the statute-book necessary? I intend to support the second reading of this bill, because I recognize that, after all, very many of the people of Australia, for their good or evil fortune, whichever it may prove to be, are determined to have what the more technical ones term r' a little flutter." 
If they are going to have that, I wish them to have it under the best and fairest conditions, and furthermore I think those conditions can be more easily obtained by the use of mechanical means, such as those employed in a lottery of the type we are now discussing, rather than by trusting to human agencies such as are employed for various and devious purposes in practically all the states of the Commonwealth. I cannot understand why politicians allow bookmakers to bet in the streets and on the race-courses and decry such a measure as this. Furthermore, I am  anxious  to extricate the PostmasterGeneral from a very awkward situation, and improve his position both morally and financially. Several honorable senators have referred to the channels through which communications can be sent, and which are openly advertised. I do not know what these channels are - possibly because I have never troubled to inquire - but I have heard, not perhaps, on the best possible authority, that a great number of applications for tickets are now sent by parcels post. If that is so, undoubtedly the Postmaster-General is not only occupying a very invidious and awkward position, and one which demands some explanation, but is also losing a lot. of revenue. In addition, he is inconveniencing the patrons of this particular class of sport. The Postmaster-General is not by any means, as has already been pointed out, achieving the objective he desires. 
I often wondered why it was considered necessary to issue postal-notes for that amount, and this shows how little I know concerning the facts. I have known occasions on which honorable senators, when unhampered by facts, have been most eloquent. I cannot lay claim to that : but, apparently, I am as unhampered by facts as those honorable senators to whom I have listened. I look upon this measure from the point of view of an ordinary citizen who does not profess to be what he is not. 
I do not lay claim to be the possessor of any of them, and that is why I am such an absolutedesperado as to support the bill. The secret and illicit nature of the methods employed in obtaining tickets has had the effect of raising the percentage to be paid by the unfortunate people who find that they cannot do without " tickets in TattS." I understand that the commission which now has to be paid does not all go to Tattersalls, and that it is very much larger than it was some time ago. I can remember this institution over a long period, particularly during the happy years I spent in the back-blocks of Australia. I can readily recall conversations concerning these consultations, and also the financial arrangements, appropriations, anticipations, and almost every other "  ation  " that could be mentioned which were then made. . By interfering with the means of communication, by endeavouring to hamper their operations in this connexion, Ave are taking great interest out of the lives of many who live in the back-blocks. Personally, I do not think it is a fair thing. I do not consider that the position is in any way logical or consistent, when we wink our eyes at illicit practices in connexion with other forms of gambling and single out this, which, after all. is one of the fairest forms of speculation. In walking through the streets of the city one is asked again and again to purchase tickets in an art union at ls. or 2s. each. The collector who takes our modest 2s. legally keeps ls. of that amount for himself, but what he does with the other I do not know. The transaction is on a 50 - 50 basis... There is no limit to the sale of the tickets, and the number of tickets sold does not bear any fixed ratio to the value of the prize. It makes me think to what an extent we are capable of deceiving ourselves. I speak impersonally on this mat ter, because it is many years since I had a ticket in Tattersalls. I got tired of taking them, because I never had to send one back. The accumulation used to sicken me whenever I looked at it. I hope that I have made myself perfectly clear. The division that is to be taken will, indeed, be a most peculiar one; there will be lions lying down with lambs, rooks with worms, and other strange sights, the like of which is very seldom seen in a deliberative and serious assembly such as this is. I do not say to which order of the animal kingdom honorable senators, on either one side of the chamber or the other, belong: I leave that to the good taste and discretion of any honorable senator who wishes to specialize in that particular phase of natural history. I shall support the bill for the reasons I have given, and also because I have a very friendly feeling for the little island state of Tasmania. 
As  Senator Kingsmill  claimed to do, I propose to approach this matter from the standpoint of an ordinary citizen of Australia; but I shall not. follow the path that he traversed. This is a very important bill to Australia. Through its Parliament, Australia, by section 57 of the Post and Telegraph Act, provided over twenty years ago that no institution controlled by the Government of Australia should In any way encourage the growth of the gambling spirit. 
It did. If the honorable senator has read the section that he seeks to amend, he must admit that that is its object, because it removes the postal facilities that otherwise would exist for indulgence in gambling by the people of Australia. 
The section in question provides that if the PostmasterGeneral has reasonable grounds for believing that any correspondence which is going through the Post Office contains matter from which the person sending it expects to receive some benefit from a horse Tace, the delivery of that matter can be prohibited. 
The honorable senator has been in Parliament sufficiently long to know that "may" in a statute almost invariably means " shall ". I have heard extraordinary views expressed upon this bill, and the necessity for passing it. On the one hand I have heard that gambling cannot be stopped by legislation. Nobody has ever suggested that it can, but we know that legislation oan minimize it to a certain extent. The honorable senator knows that in Melbourne the authorities are continually prosecuting people for indulgence in gambling at two-up schools, and other games that develop the gambling instinct that is inherent in many people. As a citizen of Australia I say that we should do all that we can to prevent, the spread of this spirit, which, unfortunately, in recent years has grown to a very remarkable extent.  Senator Ogden  referred to the hypocrisy of the Federal Ministry in taxing winnings whilst refusing to carry through the post correspondence to or from Tattersall's. Had the honorable senator dealt with the matter from that point of view last year, he would have been justified in making such a statement, and I should have felt that I could endorse it; but we know that the Federal Government does not now derive any revenue from Tattersall's. 
That is beside the question, but I can inform the honorable senator that I never have. 
Is it remarkable to have sufficient common sense to refrain from gambling? If it is, then I am glad that such a large number of the people of Australia are remarkable people. I should be very sorry to think that every unit in Australia indulged in gambling. Every reasonable man must admit that the larger these institutions grow, and the more power they obtain, the worse for the country as a whole. 
I have; but we are not now dealing with that institution. My honorable friend,  Senator C.  W. Grant, in justification of his support of the measure, stated that the Postal Department is not consistent in its attitude, inasmuch as it permits printed matter connected with other lotteries or art unions to go through the post. The PostmasterGeneral does not permit such literature to pass through the post if the contents of the envelopes are known. 
They are not. Printed matter relating to lotteries in Spain, France, and elsewhere, has come to Australia, but once the PostmasterGeneral's attention has been drawn to it, ha lias ordered that it be prohibited and confiscated.  Similar action will follow against the matter referred to by  Senator C.  W. Grant, when knowledge of the contents of the envelopes reaches the department. It may appear extraordinary that Tasmania's representatives here should be divided on this matter. When a question affects the interest or the welfare of Tasmania, those honorable senators invariably unite in upholding the rights of that state. I fail to find in this measure anything that affects the rights of Tasmania, or which will improve its condition. 
How can one take away something that is not possessed? 
It has never had the additional revenue, although it might obtain it if the section were amended in the direction suggested by  Senator Ogden.  I claim to be as interested as any honorable senator representing Tasmania in the welfare of that state. I was born there, and I have been associated with it during the whole of my life. I was privileged to hold a seat in the Tasmanian Parliament for seventeen years. I have always lamented the fact that we have been to a certain extent dependent upon the revenue received from Tattersall's. 
Unfortunately, I had to do so. I regret more keenly the fact that we have now to depend upon Tattersall's to a much greater extent than formerly. That could have been obviated by a much more generous recognition of the right of Tasmania to financial con.sideration. I lament the statement by the Premier of Tasmania that if the taxation of Tattersall's were handed over entirely to the State Government, its needs would be met. 
I am not charging the Federal Parliament with lack of generosity towards Tasmania. Honorable senators representing other states have always been prepared to give a fair deal to Tasmania when its case has been properly put before them. I do not know of any important request for financial assistance that has not been granted. The suggestion that the needs of Tasmania would be met by Tattersall's did not emanate from the Federal Government. I shall always oppose an attempt to enlarge the avenues by which gambling may be made more extensive and easier to indulge in. Business men especially will tell honorable senators that the spread of the gambling spirit among our people is one of the greatest curses with which we have to deal. Surely Parliament acted wisely years ago when it inserted this provision, in the Post and Telegraph Act. 
It is enforced today. The honorable senator, like myself, has been a minister of the Crown, and he knows how impossible it is to detect every breach of an act. 
That is nonsense. If section 57 of the Post and Telegraph Act is not being enforced, why is the honorable senator attempting to have it repealed ? 
The honorable senator knows "that what he is saying is not in accordance with facts. He is well aware that the Postmaster-General exercises the power given to him by section 57. We all know it. Otherwise, what plea could be put up by those who are anxious that this institution to which the honorable senator has referred should get still larger patronage? I am wholeheartedly opposed to the suggestion put forward by the honorable senator, because if he were successful in securing the approval of Parliament for his bill it would immediately increase the gambling spirit among our people, and instil it in the minds of many people who now do not indulge in it. I was rather surprised to hear  Senator Kingsmill,  who professes to have a kind regard for the little state of Tasmania, saying that something should be done which is likely to prove harmful to the state, looking at the matter from the highest point of view. The honorable senator's suggestion was- that it was far better to have gambling by mechanical means than through bookmakers and avenues of that nature.  His  suggestion practically amounted to this, that if gambling were made more respectable it would be better for the community as a whole. I cannot - accept that doctrine. My experience is, that the more " respectable " any form of vice is made, the greater the danger in it. Once it is given the hall-mark of government sanction or control a great many more people indulge in it than would otherwise do so. 
I trust that the good sense of honorable senators will lead them to reject this bill. 
Honorable senators opposite have interjected that those honorable senators of the Opposition who are supporting  Senator Ogden's  bill are on the side of private monopoly. The standpoint from which I view this matter is that if Tattersall's sweeps cannot' be nationalized, and for the time being must be a private monopoly, there is nothing wrong in making them as honest and above-board as possible. As I want to make them as honest and above-board as possible, I shall support the bill. I do not want to see people who are anxious to send their money to Tattersall's dodging into back streets in order to do so. Every one .in Australia knows perfectly well what is going on, and scarcely any one makes any serious attempt to prevent it. Even  Senator Payne  has made no attempt to stop people from sending money to Tattersall's. He still wants them to turn around dark corners and hide behind back doors in order to buy a ticket in one of the sweeps. Why cannot we be clean and above-board in this matter? Why cannot we allow people to send their money to Tattersall's if they wish to do so? If we want to prevent people from gambling, why do not we abolish horse racing? While we -have horse racing in Australia we shall always have gambling. It is, so to speak, almost a religion as far as some Australians are concerned. Very often I agree with  Senator Findley,-  because he is an honorable senator of the Opposition, but on this occasion I cannot. He differs from me in this respect : he goes on a race-course, and has his little bet, whereas I never go on a race-course, and never put money on a race-horse. But if it is right for  Senator Findley  to walk on to a race-course, and have his little bet, it is equally right for any individual who wishes to invest his money in a Tattersall's sweep to be in a position to do so in a clean and open manner. According to  Senator H.  Hays, we should not make it easier for the individual to do this, but, as a matter of fact, I understand that it is quite an easy matter to send money to Tattersall's. All that one has to do is to walk into certain places, and say, " I want a ticket in Tatt's." The passing of this bill will not make a great deal of difference in the number of subscribers to Tattersall's, and in all probability the money will be forwarded through, the channels through which it now passes. I fail to see why any one should be debarred from having a little gamble. The whole of one's life is a gamble, from the cradle to the grave. I suppose that  Senator Payne  has gambled on the stock exchange. Perhaps the greatest form of gambling in the world to-day is that which takes place on stock exchanges in regard to foodstuffs and the commerce of the world. If  Senator Payne  has not gambled on the Stock Exchange, he has gambled by investing his money in government stocks and bonds. That is a gamble, because he is seeking to get something for nothing. He puts his money into bonds in the hope of getting interest on it. Some one has to pay that interest. The investor does nothing for it. It comes to him through the sweat of seme other individual. The whole thing is a gamble. 
The odds are long at times, and it is a sure investment, because there are no " crook " jockeys ready to pull the horse or make it appear to be lame when it is not lame. 
My knowledge is very limited. There is a race-course close to my home, and I watch the passers-by. I gather from what they say that they are all on winners when they are going to the course, and they have all been on losers when they are returning to their homes. I suppose there are eighteen meetings throughout the year on which Tattersall's conduct sweeps, and as there are 100,000 subscribers in a full sweep, one can get a good idea of the immense sums of money that flow to Tasmania every year. If we are anxious to make this form of gambling a little cleaner, this is our opportunity to do so. We know perfectly well that it goes on, and why should we be hypocritical about it? Let it be done in the open. Let those who want to  3end  motley to Tattersall's have as much right to do so as people have to go on a race-course and gamble. In South Australia we have two systems of gambling on race-courses. One can invest 2s. 6d. on the totalizator, but the man on the flat who wishes to invest ls. must do it in an illegal way with a bookmaker. There are no licensed bookmakers in the state. Consequently, his bet must be made in a hide-and-seek manner. But the point is that the persons who are supposed to be there to prevent him from doing so are themselves putting on their own "bobs" in the same way. They have the gambling spirit. As long as we have Australian people we shall never wipe out that spirit. I do not claim to be a gambler. I do not go near a racecourse, nor do I ever bet. But because others go on race-courses and bet, I do not pat myself on the back, and say, " Thank God, I am not as other men are." They have a right to do it if they wish to do so. It is their business, and not mine. I think it is wrong, and, therefore", I do not do it. But I am fairminded enough not to say that they should be prevented from having their bets simply because I do not believe in betting. We should endeavour to make transactions with Tattersall's as honorable as possible, and allow its postal matter to be handled without the authorities having to wink one eye at what goes on to the knowledge of all. Every one knows that much of the postal matter constantly going through to Tasmania contains money for investment in "sweeps." Thousands of packages are handled, but no effort is made to punish those who communicate with Tattersall's. It is hypocrisy to try to cover up what is being done, and at the same time to refuse to accept letters addressed to Tattersall's "for fear of encouraging gambling." 
I support the bill. I have few of the virtues and probably most of the vices of the average man. One of my failings, at any rate, is a desire to take a chance in Tattersalls. I have done so for many years, but, like  Senator Kingsmill,  I have never participated in the sweets of success. If I had to decide my vote on this bill by my fortune in Tattersall's, I should be found voting against it. I hope, however, that the day is not far distant when I shall receive one of the very acceptable prizes offered. 
Yes, as many others have broken it and continue to do, although they will not admit it. I expressed the opinion some years .igo, when I was a member of the other branch of the legislature, that the refusal of the postal authorities to accept correspondence addressed to Tattersall's was an unjust restriction, and that the Commonwealth Government's participation in the profits of the " sweeps," which they h'ad practically declared illegal, was even more objectionable. I said that, in my opinion, it was the height of hypocrisy, and that, personally, I would permit every state to conduct art unions, particularly where a portion of the profits was devoted to charitable purposes. It ' must be recognized that since the war the opportunities for obtaining money for charitable institutions have been greatly restricted, for the State Governments have heavy liabilities to face in providing the funds needed for such purposes as land settlement, the construction of roads and railways, and education. In fact, the prosperity of a state does not depend at all upon the legislation passed by the Commonwealth Parliament, which has a halo round it that,  in some respects, is undeserved. What makes the huge federal surpluses possible? It is not the work of this Parliament. The Customs, Defence, and Postal Departments do not give one more man outside a job or start one new industry. 
I am not referring to the tariff. 
The honorable senator is now making a speech which would be more appropriate to a debate on the Address-in-Reply or a Supply Bill. 
It has been said that when rogues fall out honest men get their due. This is the first time that we have had the pleasure of seeing the representatives of Tasmania divided on the floor of the Senate. Honorable senators from that state have always sought special privileges, and at the present time Tasmania is permitted to use the postal facilities provided by the Commonwealth to conduct sweeps which would not be tolerated in any part of the mainland. Had  Senator .Ogden  been well advised, he would have permitted the matter to remain in abeyance, and would not have directed attention to the fact that his state is receiving "a special concession. Why does not Tasmania tax its population as much as other states do? 
No doubt the honorable senator believes in his assertion, but unfortunately the  Year-Booh  of 1924 is against him. 
It shows that the honorable senator has no foundation for his statement. Some years ago, for the first time, we had an opportunity of ascertaining from the war census returns how the wealth of Australia was distributed. In 1915 there were in Tasmania 26,819 estates of the total value of £15,022,114, but the State Government has asked the landowners there to pay only a nominal sum. In 1922-3 they paid in taxation £97,352, or only a little over  1½d.  per  £1.  Tasmania has its estate and probate duties, its income tax, and other forms of industry-penalizing imposts, but perhaps the most ridiculous, most damaging, and most disgraceful of all the taxes it imposes is that inflicted upon visitors from the mainland. Every person who lands at Burnie or Launceston has to pay a tax of 2s., and every person" who leaves those ports has to pay a similar sum. The imposition of this poll tax is really responsible, in my opinion, for the decline in the Tasmanian tourist business. The people on the mainland are realizing that New South Wales has many pleasure resorts superior in every respect to those of Tasmania, and this unpleasant fact is being brought home to that state. 
I do, sir, but E could not help castigating Tasmania on the score of her poll tax, for she very richly deserves it. We are frequently asked to make concessions to Tasmania. Not so long ago we were requested to amend the Navigation Act to provide that its coasting provisions should not apply to Tasmania. 
SenatorC. W. Grant. - They do not apply in Western Australia now. 
There may be a small boat that runs from Perth and touches at Darwin, which does not comply with the provisions of the act, but that is all. In my opinion the Navigation Act should apply alike to all parts of Australia, and I consider that the states on the mainland would resent any differentiation. We have permitted our Postal Department to be used year after year to send huge sums of money from the mainland to Tattersall's. I do not know what percentage of its gross takings Tattersall's management retains, but it is very substantial. The point I wish to drive home is that gambling does not produce wealth. Our people can never become prosperous by it. The gambling spirit is inherent in some people. We cannot stop gambling, but, so far as I know, the Commonwealth Government has never permitted itself to be openly used to support institutions like Tattersall's. If this measure is agreed to Tasmania will obtain another unfair advantage over the other states. If she wishes to do the right thing, let her impose taxation upon her people in accordance with the principles laid down by Henry George. Only recently gambling scandals in Spain and at Geneva were so pronounced that the postal authorities warned Australians against having anything to do with sweeps and lotteries promoted in those places. I do not say for a moment that Tattersall's consultations are not conducted on a straight basis. I have no knowledge to the contrary. But neither they nor the Queensland Golden Casket lotteries will increase the wealth of the community.  Senator Hannan  has suggested that we should support such lotteries in the interests of charity. That, in my opinion, is an entirely wrong principle. Our charities should be supported by a straight-out land values tax. We are told that we shall always have the poor with us. In that case we ought to put our charities on a proper basis. 
I advocate, not the single tax, but a straight-out landvalues tax. 
I ask the honorable senator not to pursue that subject any further. 
The honorable senator has been allowed considerable latitude. 
This debate has been most illuminating and interesting to me. I can quite understand that honorable senators on this side of the chamber feel free to either support or oppose the bill, and yet remain true to their political convictions; but I cannot understand how any honorable senator opposite can reconcile a vote in support of gambling in any shape or form Avith the platform he has accepted, and the principles he advocates. Honorable senators opposite are said to be socialists, and they frequently declaim their opposition to the capitalistic system, and the exploitation of the workers for private gain. They lose no opportunity to expatiate on the virtues of socialism. They say that the capitalistic system enables certain people in the community to secure wealth which they have neither created nor assisted to create. What is the gambling system? Do those who obtain prizes in such lotteries as Tattersall's contribute in any shape or form to the wealth they receive? It is quite clear that they take wealth which they had no hand at all in creating. In. other words, gambling is the most extreme form of private enterprise, and of the capitalistic system, so often denounced by honorable gentlemen opposite. It is a singular spectacle to see them championing it and yet asserting that they are opposed to private enterprise.  Senator Findley  and  Senator J.  Grant, who have declared their opposition to the bill, have certainly been consistent, but I fail to see howother honorable senators opposite who have spoken in support of the bill can reconcile their attitude towards it with their professions that they are opposed to private enterprise and the exploitation of the people for private gain. It is rather singular, also, that the Queensland. Labour Government, which has no Upper House to place a check upon it, has legalized the lottery as a state institution. 
The Golden Casket is purely a gamble conducted by the state. Irrespective of the destination of the profits it is a gambling machine conducted by a state government which proclaims itself a socialistic government, and which by this means diverts wealth into the pockets of those who do not earn that wealth, or take any part in its creation. It is an extraordinary anachronism that the first government in Australia to establish a state lottery was a Labour Government. If this' debate has served no other purpose it should at least cause some honorable senators opposite to examine the principles they have been advocating so strenuously and so vociferously, and enable them to determine whether they are consistent when they denounce the exploitation of the workers by capitalists under the capitalistic system - a system under which they say the capitalists take the wealth which they have not created - and at the same time support this proposal, while a Labour Government in Queensland, by its votes and actions, has also recognized the most extreme form of exploitation of this kind. 
In the first place I wish to reply to a statement of the Minister  (Senator Pearce),  who is generally logical in debate. In this instance the right honorable senator seems to have missed the point of the subject we are now discussing. The Labour party, in supporting this measure--: - 
I should say that the honorable senators supporting thismeasure are not necessarily in favour of gambling. Although section 57 of the Post and Telegraph Act, which has been on the statute-book for a number of years, gives the Government power to prohibit the carriage of letters to a lottery, the Minister, who has been a member of various governments for many years, has never made any serious attempt to administer that law. If any one is guilty of aiding and abetting gambling it is not those supporting the general principle involved in this instance, but  Senator Pearce  and his Government, who have allowed the act to be evaded. 
The Minister and the Government of which he is a member have not only aided and abetted this institution, but in taking one-half of the revenue have become actual partners in the transaction.  Mr. Harvey  and his colleagues were asked if they would act as agents for the Government for the collection of the tax on prize money, and in asking them to collect' that tax the Minister and his colleagues are as much open to the charge of being supporters of gambling as are any honorable senators who support the second reading of this bill. The law at present on the statutebook has not been .properly administered, and the Minister has placed himself in a most invidious position. He and his colleagues have proved that they are not honest iu- 
I do not say that, but 1 will say that the Minister and his Government have not honestly endeavoured to prohibit this gamble, although they could if they desired. I say definitely and advisedly that the- Minister controlling this department could, if he desired, suppress Tattersall's within a week. The Government* has never attempted to do it. The position is ridiculous.  Tattersall's  is nut a monopoly, as suggested by  Senator Findley,  because it is established under the law of the state, and  Senator Findley  could conduct a similar lottery so long as he was prepared to put up the necessary deposit. 
Yes, and the Treasurer, without approaching Parliament, could give that consent. Therefore, it is not a monopoly. Any other state in the Commonwealth can do what Tasmania has done. 
No, they would have to pass the necessary legislation. In 1924 the Commonwealth Government derived £110,000 from Tattersall's, whilst the Tasmanian Government, during the same year, received £201,000. It is quite correct, as the Minister stated, that the Commonwealth Government is no longer participating in the profits derived from this institution. It did not cease receiving revenue from Tattersall's because its conscience had been smitten, but because the Treasurer of Tasmania asked that he should be allowed to collect the amount instead of being allowed a special grant from the Consolidated Revenue. The Government knew what it would mean. The time may arrive when there may be in this Chamber a minister sufficiently strong and honest in his convictions to strictly administer the law.  Senator Payne,  for instance, might some Hay be Postmaster-General, but I hope we shall be spared such a calamity. We can also imagine the treatment Tasmania would receive if  Senator J.  Grant were a minister of the Crown. If  Senator J.  Grant were Postmaster-General, I believe he would administer the law. if we were really honest in the administration of that part of the act which this bill proposes to amend, Tasmania would be deprived of approximately £340,000 a year. During the period in which  Senator Payne  and  Senator H.  Hays were Ministers of the Crown in Tasmania, and also while they were private members, they did not raise their voices against this institution. If I believe a thing' is wrong I will do my best to wipe it out. If I believed the use of alcoholic liquor to he uri evil, I would be a prohibitionist. If I thought, that Tattersall's was an evil I would, if a member of the State Parliament, openly advocate its abolition. Are we honest in practically closing our eyes to what is being done and at the same time allowing the institution to carry on in a way which some honorable senators declare to be immoral. Enormous power is placed in the hands of the Minister, who can, by proclamation, act openly, honestly and justly in this matter. 
I hope the Minister will not endeavour to create that impression. I am endeavouring to eliminate section 57 of the Post and Telegraph Act. 
No, the whole portion relating to lotteries and gambling. 
That is quite right, but my proposal does not relate only to Tasmania. It refers to the whole of the states. It does not repeal the whole of the section. 
That may be so: but whatever the bill provides will apply  to the whole of the states without any discrimination. I thank honorable senators for the consideration they have given this measure, and trust that a majority will be willing to give it their support. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
What was the number, as at 30th June, 1025, of- 
What was the revenue derived by the PostmasterGeneral for the year ending 30th June, 1925, from- 
Have the scale rates for allowance postmasters been increased during the past twelve years? 
If so, what was the amount of the increase; and for what particular services, if any, were such increases paid, and from what date? 
Will the Minister place upon the table of the Senate a copy of the scale rates in. operation on 1st July, 1925, as payable to allowance post offices? 
Are copies supplied to allowance postmasters? 
If not, why not? 
Where can copies be seen? 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions :  - 1, 2, 3, 4. This information is not compiled, and considerable work and expense would be involved in collating the particulars. 
1 do not consider it would be wise to make such information public.I shall be pleased to show the honorable senator, for his own information, the details of the rates. 
No. 7 and 8. See answer to 5. 
No. 
.- I move- 
That this bill be now read a second time. 
The objects of the bill are - firstly, to provide for the establishment of the Australian War Memorial; secondly, to constitute a body with permanent and legal status to assist and advise the Minister in connexion with the establishment of the memorial; and, thirdly, to vest in and placeunder the control of this body certain funds pledged to memorial purposes at present temporarily in the custody of the Treasury. Honorable senators will recall that, on the 22nd of August, 1923, I stated that the government regarded the Australian War Museum as the Australian National War Memorial, and proposed to establish it in a suitable building at Canberra. To this, no objection has been raised. Since then, a site on the slopes of Mount Ainslie has been allotted for the memorial, and a competition for designs for the building was launched on the 12th inst.The memorial will consist of the records and relics of the Australian Imperial Force, the Royal Australian Navy, and other Australian Forces - the magnificent collection of which has been compiled and created by those Forces themselves. The chief feature of the building in which the collection will be permanently housed will be the Hall of Memory, on the walls of which will be inscribed the names of all Australians who died through the war, and these will be listed beneath the names of the towns or districts from which they came. The object is that, not only shall our descendants during all time be able to come to this memorial and read the names of those men of their own district who died through the war, but that, standing in that silent hall, surrounded by the names of those who fell and a few of their most precious relics, visitors may, for all time, be impressed with the sense that they are standing in the actual presence of the dead, and realize their larger responsibilities to their memory. Since July, 1919, in the management of the collections and preparatory measures for the establishment of the memorial, I have had the advice and assistance of the Australian War Museum Committee, of which I am  chairman.  That committee consists of the following: - Minister for Home and Territories, Minister for Defence, Rear-Admiral P. H. Hall Thompson, C.B., C.M.G., Lieu tenant-General  Sir H.  G. Chauvel, G.C.M.G., K.C.B., Major-General  Sir C.  B. B. White, K.C.M.G., K.C.V.O., C.B., D.S.O., Major-General  Sir T.  W. Glasgow, 
K.C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O.,  Mr. Justice  Ferguson,  Major the Hon.  C. W. C. Marr. D.S.O., M.C., M.P., C.E., W. Bean, Esq., and H. S. Gullett, Esq. It is now considered advisable, for administrative reasons, to constitute for this purpose a body with permanent and legal status, to be known as the Board of Management.. Appointment to the board will carry no remuneration. The powers and functions of the board are prescribed in the bill. It will be observed that, exclusive of the control of a special fund, to which reference will be made later, the actions of the board will be subject to the Minister's approval and directions. The special fund which it is proposed to place under the control of the board consists of moneys received by. the Australian War Museum Committee on condition that they would be used for special memorial purposes. They total, approximately, £18,500, and comprise donations from Australian Imperial Force organizations and individuals, and the net proceeds from the sale of war photographs, and screening of war films, and from similar activities. They do not include any moneys appropriated by Parliament. The Government is advised that the vesting of these moneys in a body such as the proposed board is essential if the conditions on which they were received are to be fulfilled. All books and accounts will be kept in accordance with the Audit Act 1901-1924 and regulations under that act, and will be sub ject to audit by the Auditor-General, who will report to the Minister. Future sources of revenue to the fund will be similar to those in the past. Provision has been made for the receipt of donations and bequests, as the object of the memorial and the uses to which the fund will be put will doubtless appeal to Australians interested in perpetuating the memory of the Australian Forces, and who may, therefore, be glad of an opportunity to assist financially. 
Now let me give some of the facts which justify the recognition of the War Museum as the National War Memorial. The Government, in making the appeal to Australian and allied governments for exhibits, when it was decided to establish a War Museum, accepted the responsibility of providing for the preservation in a suitable building of the exhibits donated in response to that appeal, which  are of great intrinsic value and, sentimentally and historically, priceless. No one who has seen the collections can have failed to realize how certain it is that the building in which they are housed will become the War Memorial. No pile of sculpture or other artificial monumentcan ever rival this assemblage of relics and records, which must remind all Australians of a great national effort in the defence of the Empire and civilization. As a memorial it will be unique. There are other war museums, but none, so far as is known, has been recognized as the National War Memorial of the country in which it exists. It may be added, that, in the opinion of competent judges, none has the interest and value of the Australian collection. The splendid response by the Australian forces to the appeal for exhibits for the War Museum was due almost entirely to the emphasis placed by the responsible authorities on the memorial nature of the collections. The men gladly gave their most precious relics in order that the achievements of their units might be immortalized ina national institution. Many exhibits were presented in the names of the fallen by comrades or relatives, in order that the memory of these names might be perpetuated in the museum. The value that the people of Australia place upon these relics of their country's war effort is indicated by the facts which I shall now give. While 3,497 towns throughout Australia accepted the relics offered to them, and undertook to arrange for their permanent preservation, only 79 refused, and of these refusals 46 were on the grounds that there was no suitable public place in which they might be preserved. The Australian War Museum was open to the public in Melbourne for two years and nine months. During that time the attendances registered at the turnstiles were 780,000. The War Museum has been open in Sydney since the 3rd April, 1925. Up to the 3rd Augustthe attendances totalled 377,675. These attendances are treble those in Melbourne for the corresponding period. I think that that fact alone is a wonderful tribute to the interest that the people of Australia are taking in this memorial. I know that some honorable senators have had an opportunity of seeing the collection, and I am sure that they will agree that there is nothing in Australia to parallel it. Visitors - not Australians, but visitors to Australia - who have inspected similar collections in other countries have assured us that they have seen nowhere else a collection equal to it in historical interest. The site which has been chosen faces the front of the provisional Parliament House, and from Parliament House to the side of Mount Ainslie there is a prospect which will be practically free from buildings for all time. The outlook from Parliament House will be upon country timbered on every side with Australian and other trees. The War Memorial will be situated on a mound having for its background Mount Ainslie with its wooded slopes, which are permanent reserves and, therefore, can never be built upon. These two buildings will very properly face each other, and we hope that they will be two of the monumental edifices of the capital city. We trust that in the competition which has been initiated among Australians, we shall receive worthy designs for this worthy object, so that when this wonderful collection comes to be removed to Canberra it will be suitably housed in a building worthy of the collection, and of the tradition and memories that it will for all time enshrine. I feel sure,  Mr. President,  that the bill will receive the hearty" commendation of all honorable senators, and I now submit it for their approval. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
.- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is a machinery measure to provide for the ratification of an agreement entered into some years ago between the Government of New South Wales and the Government of the Commonwealth by which the lands known as Cockatoo Island and Schnapper Island were acquired from the state as transferred properties, and portion of Goat Island, which was Commonwealth property, was relinquished to the state. The bill merely provides for the legalization by Parliament of the  agreement. The terms of the acquisition will be of very little interest now because the properties were acquired as far back as 1913. Owing to the war and the various matters that arose out of it, no steps were taken at that time to obtain parliamentary approval of the transfer. Moreover, the question of what should be embodied in the agreement was not settled for a considerable time. There was some difference of opinion between the Commonwealth and State Governments as to which part of Goat Island should be handed over to the state. The question arose whether or not the Commonwealth Government would need to retain the whole of Goat Island for magazine purposes. It was only about a year ago that th e matter was completed, and the agreement drawn up, and this is the first opportunity that the present Government has had to ask Parliament to ratify it. I have details before me as to the terms of the agreement, and the price paid by the Commonwealth for Cockatoo and Schnapper Islands; but as it is ancient history, and the price has long been paid, I do not intend to weary honorable senators by reading the details unless they wish me to do so. 
It may be. Cockatoo Island and Schnapper Island; with a certain area covering the waters adjacent thereto, were acquired for the purpose of establishing a naval depot and dockyard. The land transferred is to be considered as transferred property under section 85 (1) of the Constitution. The Commonwealth Government entered into possession on the 1st February, 1913. The price agreed upon was £867,716 9s. Interest on the above amount (considered as transferred property) has been paid as from the 1st February, 1913. The sum of £66,085 15s.11d., representing expenditure by the state prior to the 31st January, 1913, was paid to the state in cash. The Commonwealth vacated that portion of Goat Island used as a magazine store on the13th June, 1913, and the agreement with regard to the above matters was executed on the 26th October, 1915. A supplementary agreement was completed on the 12th September, 1924. The Commonwealth was in occupation of an area comprising 3 acres 33 perches on Goat Island, and it was agreed to consider and deal with this area as a transferred property. The Commonwealth was using it as a small arms ammunition magazine. The state was exceedingly anxious to have the magazine removed, and desired the use of the whole island. Therefore, the Commonwealth undertook to transfer the magazine and hand over the island as soon as possible after termination of the war as part of the arrangement in connexion with the transfer of Cockatoo and Schnapper Islands. The transfer was delayed due to difficulty in establishing a suitable magazine elsewhere, and the removal of the explosives. This- was completed, and that portion of Goat Island occupied by the Commonwealth was formally handed over on the 13th June, 1923. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
I desire to inform the Senate that  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral has appointed the hour of 3.30 o'clock on Wednesday afternoon next as a suitable hour at which to receive the Address-in-Reply. 
In view of the announcement made by the Minister for Home and Territories  (Senator Pearce),  I desire to inform honorable senators that a few minutes after the Senate meets on Wednesday next, I propose to suspend the sitting and proceed to Government House, there to present to  His Excellency  the Address-in-Reply, and I hope that as many honorable senators as can make it convenient to do so will accompany me. 
.- I move- 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Since the Minister for Markets and Migration  (Senator Wilson),  who has charge of the next business on the notice-paper, is not present, and I understand that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  does not wish to proceed to-day with the discussion on the budgetpapers, I have submitted the motion for the adjournment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The whole of the revenue received from postages is credited to the Department of the PostmasterGeneral. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
Whether there are any restrictions against the delivery of mails to the Golden Casket lottery in Queensland similar to those operating against the Tasmaninn lottery known as Tattersalls? 
-No . The Golden Casket is not an institution similar to Tattersalls, but is an art union conducted by the Queensland Government for charitable purposes. 
As I announced on Friday last,  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral has intimated his intention to be ready at 3.30 o'clock to-day to receive the Address-in-Reply agreed to by the Senate, and I propose now to proceed to Government House to present the address. I shall be pleased if as many honorable senators as can find it convenient to accompany me will do so. 

 Sitting suspended from 3.8 to4.30p.m. 

 I have to announce to the Senate that, accompanied by honorable senators, I visited Government House, and presented the Address-in-Reply to  His Excellency  the Governor-General, to . which  His Excellency  was pleased to make the following reply: - 
I receive with much pleasure the Address which has been adopted by the Senate in reply to the speech which I delivered on the occasion of the opening pf the third session of the ninth Parliament of the Commonwealth, and I desire to thank you for your expression of loyalty to  His  Majesty the King. 
The bill has my most cordial support. One cannot help being struck with the fact that in almost every town and hamlet in Australia ' war memorials have already been erected as an appreciation by the inhabitants of the deeds of those who made such tremendous sacrifices for the people of Australia. Although I speak only for South Australia, I feel quite sure that in every other State also, when the. Government, decided to distribute to local bodies certain war trophies, the difficulty was not' to secure their acceptance, but to cope with the demand by the various districts, through their local governing representatives. To-day, in addition to the memorials that have been erected in public thoroughfares and parks, practically every town in Australia exhibits in a public building some trophy commemorative of the deeds of the Australian soldiers, who performed such a wonderful service for Australia and other countries overseas. Instances of heroism such as those related by General  Sir Thomas  Glasgow are constantly being multiplied. It must be a source of gratification to the people of Australia to know that the Government intends, at the earliest possible moment, to establish this memorial at the national Seat of Government, and there display the wonderful collection of trophies . which it possesses. I am confident that the people of Australia will never view those exhibits with other than feelings of pride and admiration. In addition to housing the trophies and other evidences of the wonderful ability and daring of the Australian soldiers, this memorial will have upon its wall the names »f those gallant men who made the supreme sacrifice in the interest of Australia. If the building offered no other attraction, it would draw to it thousands of people who will regard it as a shrine sacred for all time. The bill requires no word of commendation. I have not the slightest doubt that the object which ' underlies it has the cordial endorsement of every man and woman in this country. The sooner the building is erected, and the trophies placed in it are made available to the people, the better they will be pleased. I cordially approve of the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 8 agreed to. 
Clause 9 (Delegation by board). 
This clause provides that the board may delegate the whole of its powers to any one of its members. If that may be done, is there any necessity to have twelve board members ? 
The object of the clause is to give the board power to delegate its authority and power to sub-committees. The present board has formed a number of subcommittees, one of which is the. finance committee, of three members. As  chairman  of the board. I should like to say that I am under a heavy obligation to that committee for the fine work it has done. It is really the active section of the present board, and does practically all the routine work. If .occasion should arise for the new board to delegate its powers, it may be trusted to do so wisely. It is not intended, of course, that one man shall exercise all the functions of the board, but it might be desirable, in certain circumstances, to vest such authority in one man to. do work in a particular state.. Otherwise it might be necessary for a sub-committee, or even the full board, to visit the state to do what is needed. The clause is inserted for convenience in administration. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 10 agreed to. 
Clause 11 - 
A fund is hereby established which shall be known as the Australian War Memorial Fund. 
The fund shall consist of - 
Moneys which the Minister, with the concurrence of the Treasurer, by notice in the  Gazette,  directs shall form part of the fund; and 
Will the Treasurer,  pursuant  to the provisions of this paragraph,  have authority to allow the Minister to contribute to the fund from the Consolidated Revenue ? 

 Senator PEARCE (Western Australia- 
Minister for Home and Territories) [5.7]. - That is not the intention. A sum of money was earned some time ago by a cinema exhibition which was the property of Ohe board. No other authority had any claim upon it, and the Minister, with the concurrence of the Treasurer, paid it into this fund. The money did not belong to the taxpayers; it had not been raised from them : it was raised by the soldiers. This paragraph provides that any moneys raised or earned by the board in the future shall be paid into the War Memorial Fund. The Treasurer is brought into the matter as the guardian of the Consolidated Revenue. The Minister, as  chairman  of the board, will naturally desire that all possible moneys shall be paid into the memorial fund, but a question may arise as to whether particular sums ought not to be paid into the Consolidated Revenue. The Treasurer will be a party in determining any question of that kind. 
Are any moneys at present held in trust which may be affected by this provision ? 
No; all amounts that have been raised in that way have been paid over. The provision is to meet similar cases in the future. 
That is so. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 12 agreed to. 
Clause 13 (Use of funds). 
Previous clauses indicate that the sanction of the Minister is required for augmenting the fund by the sale of relics and so forth, but this clause places no qualification on the board's power to dispose of the fund. The board is not required to consult the Minister as to how or in what manner the fund may be expended, and I should like to know if the Minister is willing to give it this free hand. 

 Senator PEARCE (Western Australia- 
Minister for Home and Territories) [5.12]. - The clause certainly gives the board power to dispose of the fund, but the sources from which this fundmay be built up are limited by clause 10, and the Minister is chairman of the board, and the Government appoints all the members of the board. The bill lays down very rigid lines upon which the boardcan operate, and it is thought only right that it should have control of the disposal of the fund, provided, of course, it is disposed of within the purposes set out in the bill. If men of character and ability are to be asked to serve on the board they must be given a certain amount of autonomy. The Government is not anxious to allow the board to have merely the power of recommendation, especially when it has to conform to the conditions upon which the bill will allow it to expend money. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 14 and 15 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I gather from a perusal of the bill that its purpose is to ratify an agreement entered into between the Commonwealth Government and the New South Wales Government for the surrender of a certain area in New South Wales to the state Government, the area in question being portion of Goat Island. I conclude that the arrangement is mutually satisfactory to both Governments. At any rate, I have heard no complaint from either Government, and therefore I see no reason for offering any objection to the passage of the measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 (Short title). 

 Senator PEARCE (Western Australia - 
Minister for Home and Territories)  [5.18].  -  A slight amendment has been made in the agreement, necessitating the insertion of a second schedule. 
Progress reported. 
I congratulate the Treasurer,  Dr. Earle  Page, on having continued the practice he initiated when he first assumed office of presenting the budget very early in the session, thus giving Parliament an opportunity to review the Government's proposals, and the expenditure in which the Commonwealth will be involved long before the money isspent. I hope this commendable practice will be continued by his successors, because it has been my experience that the budget is usually presented to both branches of the legislature at a time when the greater portion of the money set out in the Estimates has been spent, so that all criticism of the Government's proposals, no matter how severe it may be, is futile. It is not my intention to deal exhaustively with all of the Government's proposals in this year's budget. I have chosen a few to comment upon. In his speech the Treasurer made the very interesting statement that during the last financial year the total amount made available for the reduction of the public debt of the Commonwealth was £5,500,000. It is a laudable ambition to reduce the public debt. I do not believe that the task of wiping out the public debt should fall entirely on the present generation, but I regard it as imperative that those who are living to-day should make some effort to reduce it as far as they can.  Dr. Page  has been Treasurer for three years. I believe that he is now in his last year of that office. 
I am not attempting to prophesy. I believe that the beginning of the year of grace 1926 will see an end of  Dr. Page  as Commonwealth Treasurer, because early in that year the people will determine upon a change of government, and in the new government I am sure he will not find a seat. 
According to the figures given by the Treasurer the gross national debt and the net debt during .the last three years have been as follow - 

<graphic href="111332192508261_7_1.jpg"></graphic>

I cannot ascertain from these figures where £5,500,000 has been set aside for' the reduction of the national debt. The net debt was £335,371,000 in 1922-3. It was £335,197,000 in 1924-5. I admit that during the period the Commonwealth borrowed £15,000»,000 to help the States, but the statistical table .1 have quoted does not coincide with the Treasurer's assertion that £5,500,000 has been set aside for the reduction of the national debt. The Treasurer also stated that £1,500,000 has been appropriated from revenue for the reduction of the public debt. During the year under review a profit of £1,278,000 was made from the note issue, but the Treasurer does not state whether the profit from this source has been devoted to the reduction of the national debt. When the Labour party introduced the note issue, it was decided that the profits from that source were to be devoted to the reduction of the public debt, but I have looked in vain through the figures to ascertain whether any of the money set aside by the Treasurer for the reduction of the national debt has or has not been obtained from this source, or how the profit, of £1,278,000 obtained from the note issue has been disposed of. Whilst I recognize the necessity of gradually reducing our obligation in that regard, the present generation should not be wholly responsible. 
The Treasurer has introduced an amending Commonwealth Bank Bill, which makes provision for a system of rural credits. The proposal, although commendable, is somewhat belated. When an amending Commonwealth Bank Bill was before the Senate some time ago, honorable senators on this side of the chamber unsuccessfully endeavoured to embody in it a similar provision to that now proposed. When the measure was before another place, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr. Anstey)  moved - 
That the Government should consider the advisability of extending the functions of the 
Commonwealth Bank to provide for rural credits for the following purposes :  - 
To advance money on broad acres; 
to assist co-operative finance in primary and secondary production; 
to assist in land settlement and development; 
to establisha grain and fodder reserve against periods of drought. 
When that proposal was before another place no discussion was allowed, owing to the application of the guillotine, but when a division was taken only the members of the Labour party supported it. In these circumstances. I do not wish honorable senators to think that the members of the Government, and those supporting them, are the only ones who favour a system of rural credits. 
I now come to the questionof main roads, which are of great importance  to  the Commonwealth, both as regards Australian development and from the stand-point of defence. General  Sir John  Monash, when giving evidence before the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, emphasized the fact that Australian main roads are of more importance than the railways in the matter of defence. 
It cannot be disputed that attimes troops can be moved more rapidly over roads than by means of railways. Although £1,000,000 was appropriated during the past two years for the maintenance and construction of main roads approximately only £650,000 has been expended, leaving a balance of £350,000, to which the Government now proposes to add £750,000, making a total of £1, 100,000 for this financial year. Why has the unexpended balance of £350,000 voted by Parliament for main roads during the previous financial year been added to the £750,000 which it is proposed to allot this year  1  At least £1,000,000 should have "been provided on this year's Estimates, to which should have been added the unexpended balance of £350,000. 
That is owing to the restrictions placed upon the vote itself, particulars of which were given the other evening by  Senator J.  B. Hayes, when submitting a motion in relation to main road grants. At present the spending of the money is controlled by federal officers. 
I admit there should be proper control over the expenditure of the money. Although the amount allotted to Western Australia was comparatively small, the operations of the state authorities were restricted because the act deals only with main roads. In the south-western portion of Western Australia, where the State Government is engaged in the group settlement system commenced by  Sir James  Mitchell, when Premier, and continued by the present Premier  (Mr. Collier),  hundreds of thousands of pounds have been spent in settling migrants on the land. The State Government has been faced with numerous difficulties, but it is gratifying to know that the conditions have improved, and the settlement should prove a great success and an example to the rest of Australia. In the district to which I refer, the federal authorities determined that a certain road was not a main road - that it merely connected one group settlement with another. 
SenatorReid. - By whom was that determined ? 
By a representative of the Federal Government. The State Government desired to spend money on a certain road connecting two group settlements, or a series of group settlements, but it was determined by the federal authorities that it was not a main road. 
Possibly, but it is a question for determination. I understand that these grants are paid to the States to assist in developmental work such as in the case I have quoted. 
No. The Federal Government representative was adamant. I am not altogether blaming the federal authorities, but what applies to Western Australia is equally applicable to other States, as was instanced by  Senator J.  B. Hayes a few days ago. Under the present method the group settlement system in Western Australia is experiencing great  difficulty. I trust that the vote for main' roads Will not only be increased, but that the Government will introduce an amending measure under which money can be expended on roads other than main roads which are being used for developmental purposes. If that is done, the objective sought by  Senator J.  B. Hayes will, to a great extent, be achieved. I do not wish  Senator Thompson  to think that I am opposed to federal supervision, but as the advice of the State Public Works Department is, in most cases, accepted by the federal authorities in respect of Commonwealth works, its decisions in these in-, stances should be accepted. 
I now pass on to the question of defence. For the financial year 1913-4, the expenditure on naval and military defence was estimated at £2,960,000; in 1924-5, it was £4,400,000, and for this year it is slightly more. One naturally wonders why our defence expenditure should be practically double what it was in. 1913-4. In 1914 we were involved in a world shambles, and we have now to pay the penalty. As the bill we have justdealt with sets out, we are about to erect a memorial to the 60,000 Australian dead who fought, and fought well, in that great world conflict. We were told that it was to be a war to end all war; but it has not ended war; nor has it led to a decrease in our defence expenditure. Our defence expenditure has not decreased in consequence of the last war, and we are not alone in that respect, as all the allied nations who were involved in that great international upheaval are now spending more money on defence than they were in 1914. 
I think I have. At all events the honorable senator will not contradict my statement that we are spending more money on defence now than we were, in 1914. 
I have borne that factor in mind, and maintain that we are spending more money on defence than we were eleven years ago. In this, as I have said, we are not alone. Our allies in the great war are also spending more money on defence than they were in 1914, notwithstanding that the purpose of the Washington Conference was to bring about disarmament. When  Senator Pearce,  who represented Australia at that conference, returned, he told us that, as far as the Pacific was concerned at all events, there was security for at least ten years. But what has been the good  of that disarmament conference ? It is true that certain naval vessels were scrapped by the nations represented at the conference. In Australia, we sank our leading capital ship_, and other allied nations took similar action, but, to-day, the shipbuilding yards of practically all countries are busily employed building bigger capital ships. 
I do not say that, but it is a fact that various nations are -busily employed arming themselves to the teeth. The war, which was supposed to end all wars, did not achieve its purpose. A war is in progress iii Morocco at the present time. Did honorable senators read an article in the press recently, disclosing the cause of that trouble ? It might be wise, even now, for the British Government, following the example set by the late  President  Hardin? Qf the United States of America, to summon a disarmament conference. There would surely be a representative gathering of the nations, and perhaps something of a practical nature might be achieved to put a stop to this continuous increase in armaments, which is going on despite the existence of the League of Nations. I would be the last to decry the usefulness of the League. So far as its limitations will allow, it is doing good work. Unfortunately, it is a league, not of all the nations, but of some nations, and therefore its authority is, to some extent, circumscribed. 
I am satisfied that my figures are right, and that although we are spending more money today on defence in Australia than we spent in 1913-4, our position is not at all reassuring. In this view I am supported by General Monash,  Mr. Bowden,  former Minister for Defence, and  Senator DrakeBrockman,  all of whom are entitled to speak with some authority. They, have said that the position is deplorable - that there is not enough munitions to keep an army going for 24 hours, and that even if an army were raised we could not properly equip it. 
It is as true of the position to-day as it was in 1914. In proportion to the amount of money expended, we have not that assurance of security that we should have. I make one exception. The report of the Public Accounts Committee, which has been inquiring into munitions supply, discloses that the Munitions Supply Board is doing excellent work to make Australia selfcontained in defence. 
I welcome the somewhat tardy recognition of the claim made on behalf of our old-age and invalid pensioners for an increase in pension payments. I note, however, that the Treasurer's intimation of an additional 2s. 6d. a week comes, as it were, on the eve of an election. In 1919, when I was appealing to the electors of Western Australia to return me to the Senate, I said that if the Labour party were returned to power it would authorize an increase of 2s. 6d. a week. At that time the pension was 15s. a week. There was another increase of 2s. 6d. a week in 1922. It follows, therefore, that if Labour had been returned in 1919, our old-age and invalid pensioners would have been drawing this promised increase of 2s. 6d. long ago. Whilst I welcome the. statement in the budget speech, I remind the Senate that it is the result of pressure from members of the Labour party inside and outside of Parliament. There is another anomaly to which I desire to direct attention. I do not blame the present Treasurer, or his predecessors. The act should be amended. To put the position clearly, let me quote an article which appeared in the Western Australian  Worker  of the 14th August last, commenting on a letter which I received from the Commissioner of Pensions - 
Under the law the Commonwealth is liable to pay 17s. 6d. per week to the aged or invalid who substantiate their claim for a full pension. 
Should a pensioner enter a home, hospital, or asylum, however, the Commonwealth suspends the pension absolutely for 23 days, and pays to the pensioner a pension of but 3s. per week thereafter. 
Then, as " an act of grace," it pays to the authorities of the institution in which the pensioner is being cared for an allowance of 10s. 6d. per week for the pensioner's maintenance. 
On the transaction the Commonwealth makes a profit of 4s. per week out of each pensioner who is in residence in a public institution. The joke is that the Commonwealth provides none of these: institutions, which generally are maintained by the States. 
As the payment which the Commonwealth makes to charitable institutions - the so-called "act of grace " - is said to total about £100,000 a year, it is seen that some 3,663 pensioners arc" involved. If these 3,663 persons were not in a charitable institution the Commonwealth's pension bill on their account would be £166,166 instead of £100,000 plus the 3s. a week - a clear saving to the Commonwealth of £38,005 per year. 
This is a portion of the letter which the Commissioner for Invalid and Old-age Pensions sent to me in reply to my representations - 
When a pensioner becomes an inmate of a charitable institution, payment of his pension is suspended in accordance with the requirements of the law, as set out above. After he has been an inmate for 28 days, however, he becomes entitled to a pension of 3s per week, and the department takes the necessary action to make payment. In addition, an amount of 10s. 6d. a week is paid by the department to the authorities of the institution as an act of grace for the pensioner's maintenance. The department is, however, under no obligation whatever to make these payments, and it would be quite legal to discontinue them at any time. I may mention that the amount so paid to charitable institutions for the maintenance of pensioners amounts to approximately £100,000 per annum. As the amount of pension which may be paid to inmates of institutions is fixed by law at 3s. per week, it will be seen that it is not possible to authorize the payment of an additional 4s. per week. If such payment were authorized, the Commonwealth would be involved in an additional liability of approximately £50,000 per annum. 
Those are provided at the cost of the states, not of the Commonwealth Government. 
I shall come to that later. From information that has been given to me in the Senate, it will be found that the amount works out, not at 10s. 6d., but at 7s. 6d. 
The Commonwealth Government is making a profit of 4s a head. That is proved by the figures that have been furnished by the department. The article proceeds - 
It will be seen that the difference of 4s. a week is claimed by the Commonwealth to involve £50,000 per annum, whereas on our computation the amount saved is about £38,000. The difference, however, is neither here nor there, as we are unable to get precise details. 
This article appeared in the Western Australian  Worker.  I understand the editor,  Mr. J.  Curtin, wrote it. 
He is a citizen of Australia, and will be a member of this Parliament after the next elections. A further paragraph in the article reads - 
The point which is of importance is that, as a result of old-age pensioners entering charitable institutions, the Commonwealth Government is enabled to save, on its own statement, £50,000 per annum. This sum would be paid to old-age and invalid pensioners were they not in residence in a charitable institution, and the Commonwealth would have to meet the bill. 
I do not wish to introduce personalities into the debate, or to say whether  Mr. Curtin  is oris not a friend of Tom Walsh's. My point is that this article contains a good deal of sound common sense. The 4s. which the Commonwealth Government now withholds should be given either to the pensioner or to the State Government. 
I do not know. There is no mention of an agreement in the act or the regulations. The states are taking merely what is given to them. 
I have just quoted the figures that were furnished to me in reply to a letter that I sent to the commissioner. I will leave the position as it is until I receive replies to the questions that I to-day placed on the noticepaper. Were I to attempt to anticipate those replies I should immediately come into conflict with you,  Mr. President. 
When I receive to-morrow replies to the questions that I shall ask, the honorable senator will be as well informed as I shall be. 
That was an amount that I had in my mind. It may be correct or incorrect. 
I do not intend to allow myself to be led off the track by  Senator Lynch. 
I am never afraid that any ground upon which. I tread will give beneath my weight, which is not so great that I should be likely to sink. Let me clinch my point. The Commonwealth Parliament, by its law, has said that an invalid or old-age pensioner who is able to prove his claim to a pension shall receive 17s. 6d. a week. If a pensioner becomes an inmate of a charitable institution in a State he gets only 3s. a week, whilst the State receives 10s. 6d. a week for maintaining him. On each of such transactions the Commonwealth profits to the extent of 4s. a week. 
The pensioner should get that additional 4s.; or, alternatively, the State should receive it. 
I believe that before the proposed increase of 2s. 6d. a week can be granted to the invalid and old-aged an amending bill will have to be introduced. If I am here when that bill is being considered by the Senate I propose to suggest an amendment to remove the anomaly to which I have re- ferred. I pass on to the question of immigration. 

 - Senator Lynch ought to be old enough now not to be so impetuous. I have not made any such statement, because I have not given him the information that I anticipate will be contained to-morrow in the replies to my questions. The honorable senator now lays the blame on  Mr. Curtin.  I do not know why he should be so angry. I assure him that when I have received those replies I shall afford him ample opportunity to place  Mr. Curtin  and the State Government of Western Australia in the pillory. I am sure that he is eager to place them there. 
I hope that the honorable senator will cease his personalities. 
I come now to the question of immigration. I notice that the Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page)  said in his budget speech that last year £206,000 was spent out of loan by way of advances of passage money, landing money, and medical fees to assisted immigrants. Let us compare the action of the Treasurer with a statement that he made when he was a private member. In 1921  Dr. Earle  Page, discussing the budget which had been delivered by one of his predecessors in office, said - 
He proposes to spend from the loan funds, instead of revenue, £162.000 on passage money for assisted immigrants, which, under no consideration can be considered a charge against loans. 
I shall not discuss the question whether the expenditure of loan money in assisting intending immigrants can or cannot legitimately be charged against the loan fund. I content myself by showing the change that has taken place in the opinion of the Treasurer regarding that policy. 
I wish to devote a few minutes to the subject of the tariff. I expected an amending tariff bill to be brought down concurrently with the budget, but we are still awaiting a move by the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Pratten)  in that direction. It is high time that something was done. The threat of an amendment of the tariff has frequently been made, but it has not yet materialized. I have heard it prophesied for at least two sessions. Anticipating it, importers have rushed goods into Australia from other countries. I do not say that they have definite information as to the date when the bill is to be brought down, nor do I say that the revenue has been defrauded as a result of the largely increased imports. I do not know whether the proposed amended duties will increase or reduce the tariff. If, however, there is to be an increase on important items, the revenue will suffer to a very considerable extent. Any government contemplating an amendment of the tariff laws should keep its intention as quiet as possible. 
I am not a believer in the Tariff Board. I opposed its appointment. 
Either the Tariff Board or the Government should decide definitely what is to be done. When the amending bill does come down I do not know whether it will show the Government to be a "Pro-trade" or a " Freetectionist " Government. The present Cabinet consists of two elements. It has a pronounced freetrade element, as well as a pronounced protectionist element. Which will dominate the new tariff proposals I do not know. The attitudie of the Government on fiscal matters reminds me of a story I heard many years ago of a candidate for election to the Queensland Parliament, when freetrade and protection were really the only issues before the electors. At the conclusion of an eloquent address, this man was asked, Are you a freetrader or a protectionist?" He replied, "I am." That is the position of the Government. Let me read from a newspaper report a few figures to indicate how goods are being rushed into Australia from abroad - 
Almost a record amount - £300,925 - of Customs duties was collected last week in Victoria. The duties paid during the previous week wore £227,076. The amounts collected on eachday last week were - 
They are not the amount of duty paid on spirits.  Senator Thompson  must know that in the last three or four years a tremendous increasehas occurred in our importations. 
SenatorNEEDHAM. - I am not afraid to avow my fiscal creed.  Senator Greene  piloted the last tariff measure through the House of Representatives, and he didit well, but I havebeen forced to wonder many times since then whether it was really a protective or revenue tariff that was adopted. If it had been really protective we should not have received such tremendous duties through our Customs Department. My own belief is that it was a revenue tariff. 
SenatorNEEDHAM. - The revenue items submerge the protective items. 
What industries have developed? 
SenatorNEEDHAM. - I found very few there. 
I am not afraid to avow my fiscal creed. 
SenatorNEEDHAM. -  Senator Ogden  can, without much trouble, find my views in  Hansard.  If he does not care to look there, I assure him that if he will be patient he will be informed on the matter when the Government's tariff proposals are before us. I wish to make a few remarks respecting the need for the payment of a bounty on gold. I am not particularly partial to the bounty system, bur if any industry in Australia requires and deserves a bounty, the gold-mining industry does. Western Australia produces about 70 per cent. of the gold output of Australia. Last session a bill was passed which helped the industry to some extent, but further assistance is essential. In consequence of the embarrassment caused to the industry during the war through the Government commandeering the gold output, and the much lower grade ores. that are being worked now. the Government should see that adequate assistance is given to it. It would be well advised to introduce a measure to provide for the payment of a bounty on gold produced in the Commonwealth. The gold-mining companies of Boulder pay £750,000 per annum in wages to their employees. If a bounty were offered for all gold produced, the mining companies would be able to work lower grade ore than is now possible. In a pamphlet entitled :  The Gold Bonus; Opinions and Comments Thereon of the Chamber of Mines of Western Australia Incorporated,  the following appears with regard to the gold production of the state in 1923 :  - 
In this state the gold production amounted to £2,105,483 from 781,769 tons of ore treated; and the number of men employed in producing it was 5,347. The goldflelds towns of this state are practically isolated, and it is therefore easy to learn what is the proportion of people who live in the neighbourhood of the mines, and depend for their livelihood upon the mines, as compared with the number of men actually working on the mines. Wefind that the proportion is at least six to one. If we multiply 5,347 by six the result is 32,082. The value of the state's gold production divided by this figure shows a production of £65.6 per head for the year. 
SenatorNEEDHAM. - A good deal more gold could be produced if a bounty were payable. 
I wish to quote further from the pamphlet.[  Extension of time granted.)  I thank honorable senators for their courtesy. The pamphlet reads - 
To serve the goldfields  of  this state  1,100  miles of railway have been built,  2,000  miles  of  roads made,  350  miles  of  piping to deliver  5,000,000  gallons  of  water per day laid down, Innumerable reservoirs for water constructed, 1,700 miles of telegraph and  3,000  miles  of  telephone lines erected. 
I could quote still further from this pamphlet, but I think I have said sufficient to indicate how necessary it is for the Commonwealth Government to keep the gold-mining industry in mind. 
So far as Western Australia is concerned, there is every possibility of two or three other Kalgoorlies being found. However, the existing mines in Western Australia are working on very low-grade ore, which it is very costly to work, and, as other Australian industries are being encouraged by bounties, I think the Government should bring down a bill to grant a bounty to the gold-mining industry. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Greene)  adjourned. 
Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate say why  Sir Robert  Garran, the SolicitorGeneral, is visiting Sydney; whether it is true, as stated in the press, that he is carrying with him summonses to deliver to certain individuals; or whether it is true, as not stated in the press, that the Government finds it difficult to secure the appointment of a board that will be certain to convict those for whom summonses are intended? 
I do not propose to answer the honorable senator's questions, supposititious or hypothetical,  except to say that the Government will make a statement to both Houses at the proper time. 
The public will know. 
Is that why the door is locked when the honorable senator's party is holding a meeting ? 
Order! 
OLD-AGE PENSIONS. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
Was the total amount of old-age pensions paid to all benevolentasylums and other charitable institutions for the year ending the 30th June, 1925, in respect of pensioners in these homes', ?96,504?. 
If so, was the total number of old-age pensioners for whom the Commonwealth Government paid this allowance of ?96,504, and who were inmatesof all these homes, 4,997? 
Is the weekly amount that is paid to an asylum or charitable institution on account of an old-age pensioner who is an inmate of any such home, 10s.6d. per week? 
If so, how does the Minister account for the fact that, according to information received a few days ago, the- weekly amount paid to these charitable institutions works out at 7s. 5d.? 
Yes. 
The Commonwealth pays only for the maintenance of those inmates of charitable' institutions- who were pensioners or claimants for pension at the date of their admission to the institutions. The number of these is approximately 3,100. The remaining inmates, approximately 1,900, were already inmates of the institutions when they became pensioners, and the Commonwealth does not accept any responsibility for their . maintenance. 
Yes. 
The amount of ?96,604 paid for the maintenance of pensioner inmates of charitable institutions is made up as under: - 

<graphic href="111332192508272_0_0.jpg"></graphic>

asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works and Railways,upon  notice - 
What was the nature of the proposals of the State Government of New South Wales in regard to the construction of the proposed floating dock? 
Were such proposals aocepted, or were they modified in any way by the Commonwealth Government before construction was derided upon? 
If modified, in what way? 
To what extent is it proposed by the Commonwealth to subsidize the State Government of New South Wales in regard to the construction of the dock? 
When is it expected to begin the work of construction? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow: - 
In March, 1925, the State Government of New South Wales informed the Commonwealth Government that it would be prepared to install and operate a floating dock, capable of lifting a 10,000ton cruiser, or a limit of 13,000 tons, in connexion with Walsh Island, subject to the Commonwealth Government paying a subsidy of £120,000. The conditions for use during war time were to be made the subject of definite arrangement. 2, 3, and 4. The Commonwealth Government modified the proposal by stipulating that the -lifting capacity of the dock should be 16,000 tons, and that, in consequence, the proposed subsidy wouldbe increased to £135,000. 
The whole proposal is still a matter of negotiation, and the date of commencement of construction cannot be anticipated. 
. -I understand the proposal embodied in the bill is to give the Government authority to increase the salary of the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner from £2,000 to £3,000 per annum, and that the increased salary need not . necessarily be paid to the present occupier of the position. Although I have known the present commissioner for some time, and have always found him capable, considerate and courteous, I am not able to state whether he is entitled to receive the higher remuneration, providedfor in the bill. The activities of the Commonwealth Railway Department must necessarily extend as Australian development proceeds. The Commonwealth Government is  at present controlling the transAustralian railway between Port Augusta and Kalgoorlie and is now engaged in the construction of the north-south line from Oodnadatta to Pine Creek. It was stated by the Minister  (Senator Wilson)  that the present commissioner is also performing the duties of engineer-in-chief. That is a policy with which I do not agree. 
That may be so. A railways commissioner should possess extensive commercial knowledge, as well as organizing ability . I do not think it is altogether an economic policy to combine the positions of commissioner and engineer-in-chief, and 1 would not be opposed to- the appointment of an engineer-in-chief independent altogether of the commissioner. Whilst I recognize that we shall have to pay higher salaries to some of our executive officers in the Railway Department, .we must not forget the splendid services rendered by others in the department, particularly those in the lower grades, who sometimes have to perform their duties under very trying conditions. 
When the agreement arrived 'at between the depart-, ment and the representatives of the men expires, more generous consideration should be afforded those who are isolated from their fellow men, and who are working under severe climatic conditions. The loneliness of the lives of some of these men warrants their receiving a higher remuneration, and an improvement in their conditions .of living. Whilst I am offering no personal objection to an increase in the salary to be paid to the commissioner, I wish to utter a word on behalf of those who are really responsible for maintaining the services.' I refer to the engine-drivers, firemen, cleaners, and all the other employees on the east-west line. 
I remind the honorable senator that it has been ruled over and over again in the Senate that" the debate on an amending bill must be confined to the particular sections of the act which the bill proposes to amend. The measure now before the Senate seeks to make one short amendment in the Commonwealth Railways Act, and the honorable senator must confine his remarks to the subject of the proposed amendment. I have already allowed him to  make  extended references, by way of illustration, to other railway matters. 
I listened very carefully to the speech of the Minister  (Senator Wilson),  in moving, the second reading of this measure. To some of his statements there can be no objection. We all know the length of the east-west railway line, the Queanbeyan line, the value of the various railway properties, also the annual loss incurred in their working, and we are not unfamiliar with the magnitude of the Commonwealth railway undertakings. I have no objection to the proposal to increase the salary of the Railways Commissioner  (Mr. Bell)  by £1,000. but I should like to take advantage of this opportunity to direct attention to what I consider a very grave dereliction of duty on the part of that official. It will be remembered that some time ago the Commonwealth joined with the states of New South Wales and Queensland in an agreement to construct what was then regarded as the northern section of a uniform gauge railway to connect the various capital cities of the Commonwealth.  I refer, of course, to the Grafton-South Brisbane railway. I understand that  Mr. Bell  is  chairman  of the Railway Council, and that it is now proposed to increase his salary because railway works in contemplation will throw a greater responsibility upon his shoulders. One would think that a man of  Mr. Bell's  experience would not countenance the construction of a single line of rails connecting South Brisbane and Grafton, because eventually when  a double track is laid there will have to be considerable and costly alterations to tunnels and other sections of the permanent way. 
 Order! The honorable senator is now 'discussing a matter that has already been, dealt with by the Senate, and he must know .that a question cau.ia.ot be revised in the session in which it has been dealt with. I ask him to respect my ruling. 
Order ! The honorable senator must confine his remarks to the bill 
That is not so. The matter is now before the Senate for discussion., .and again I 'ask the honorable senator to confine his remarks strictly to the bill. 
-That matter is no concern of .the Senate at the present time. It has always "been ruled that a subject once .decided by the Senate may not be revived in the .same -session. Therefore, the question referred to may not be discussed on .this bill. 
 Mr. Bdi  is a Queenslander, I believe. 
The honorable senator has made an extended reference to 'that matter. I ask 'him now to come back to the bill. 
The whole-hearted support that the bill lias received must be gratifying to the Minister in charge of it. The two speakers who preceded me must have left upon the minds of honorable senators the impression that they intend to support it in a spirited fashion. My only objection to the proposed 'salary is that in certain circumstances  it  may be altogether inadequate. As the Minister rightly stated, the bill is ibo be considered quite apart  horn  the merits  ?ir  demerits of the present occupant of the office. It must be remembered, however, that that gentleman accepted the position under very 'definite conditions. It lay with .kim to say whether the remuneration proposed was adequate or inadequate. But it must also be remembered that he has since had put upon him a large number of additional important duties and responsibilities. It is only right that the Government and the Parliament should recognize the changed circumstances, and be prepared to provide an adequate remuneration The Commonwealth Commissioner may be called upon to meet in conference, gentlemen who hold corresponding positions under the Governments of the states, to discuss matters of great importance relating not only to the Commonwealth railway system, but also to the queston of transport facilities throughout Australia. It is quite clear that an anomalous position may be created, as, on account of  Ms occupying  the senior position, he may have to preside over gatherings of men some of whom receive a salary two and a half times as great as his, and by reason of that fact he may7 not find himself able to advance his opinions as forcefully as he would desire. On that ground alone there is every warrant for raising his salary to a figure approximating the value of the work he is called upon to undertake. There is another aspect of the matter which has been touched upon by honorable senators who have already spoken. It is the responsibility of giving advice upon the many railway projects that will have to be undertaken in the Commonwealth in the immediate future. Until recently, at all events, the railway systems of Australia have been disjointed and unconnected. It is quite true that there is one linking up of .the different systems, but that does not confer the maximum benefit upon the people of the Commonwealth. Those systems will have bo be connected at other points before that maximum advantage can be derived, and whatever their nature it will be necessary for the Commonwealth to have the best professional advice that is .procurable. To obtain that advice the payment must be commensurate with its value. If the remuneration is on  a  comparatively low scale the value of the services obtained will be correspondingly slight. We have frequently seen instances of men leaving government services to accept higher remuneration outside from persons who appraise them at a higher value. Those who have been prepared to give a greater amount to obtain the benefit of those services have been none other than the capitalists, who are so frequently declaimed against, and who are said to sweat and grind the faces of the poor. They are always anxious to obtain the services of talented men, and to do so they are prepared to pay a much higher sum than the people, through their ;governments, are willing to give. Unless we pay for brains we shall never get them; and rightly so, too, because brains are  a  very rare commodity in the market. In the abstract I regard a salary of ?3,000 a year as outrageous, especially having regard to the doctrine that is so often enunciated by gentlemen like  Senator Hannan.  But why do we pay it? For the simple reason that we cannot get the best advice available unless we do so. I should like the principle that honorable senators opposite are now supporting to be applied generally. If it is a good thing to pay according to ability for professional services, it ought also to te a good thing to do it for other services. When a man in the lower ranks of life proves by his service that he is worth more than  others who are doing similar work, he ought to be paid accordingly. I suggest to  Senator Hannan  and to other honorable gentlemen opposite who advocate his views that they should approve of the general application of this principle. Instead of doing that, they are attempting to reduce all the workers to the level of the most inefficient man among them. Men are encouraged to be- satisfied with mediocrity instead of with nothing less than excellence. Every man should be paid in accordance with his ability.. Why should all be reduced to a dull, dead monotonous level? 
If a man has the capacity to earn £2 or £3 a day, he should be permitted to do so. Honorable senators opposite agree with that principle in certain cases, but disagree with it in others. I urge them to help all the workers to go forward instead of permitting some to go forward and obliging others to go backward. We propose to pay £3,000 per annum to the Comrnissioner of the Commonwealth Railways, because we believe that that is the market value of his services. We should pay all workers according to the market value of their service. We would not think of paying £3,000 a year to  Senator McHugh  ro manage our railways, for, although he may be the finest possible embodiment of political wisdom and sagacity, he is not a railway expert. Honorable senators opposite seek to fix the rate of payment in some" walks of life without having  any regard whatever to the efficiency of the service rendered. 
I believe in applying the principle of this bill to all workers, and in paying for brains. The present Commissioner of the Commonwealth Railways should receive more adequate payment for the arduous duties which . he is called upon to perform. I should like to take the opportunity to express my appreciation of the manner in which he is doing his work. It is because he is doing so well that we propose to pay him a higher salary. He came to. us with very high credentials from a state service. He has been tried and tested over a long period, and he has come out of the crucible with credit. I hope that this bill will be the forerunner of others which will provide for the. application of the same principle generally. If that is done, the people of Australia will be gratified. 
I also support the bill. I congratulate  Senator Lynch  on his lively imagination, but I have yet to learn that honorable senators on this side of the chamber have ever used their power to try to pull down the workers and lower their standards of living. The Labour party hasalways been prepared to pay its administrators according to their ability and according to the responsibility of their work. I do not think it is a fair thing, however, to compare the responsibilities of the Commissioner of the Commonwealth Railways with those of the commissioners of the various state railways. One has only to consider for a moment how different are the circumstances of the state commissioners and the Commonwealth Commissioner to realize that such a comparisonis unfair. The Commonwealth Commissioner has nothing like the revenue, nor the number of men in his employ, that the state commissioners have. He has nothing like the same network of railways to control. At the same time I take no exception to the payment of £3,000 a year to him, although £2,000 a year cannot be said to be on the breadandbutter line.  Senator Lynch  argued that because honorable senators on this side of the chamber are supporting this bill they ought to support the general application of  the piece-work principle. I am totally opposed to piece-work, and I am consistent in my opinion. I can well remember that, not very many years ago,  Senator Lynch  was just as bitterly opposed to piece-work as I am. He knows perfectly well that we do not oppose it simply to prevent men from earning more money. We all know that it is done in the interests of the men themselves. It has the effect of regulating to a certain extent certain men employed in certain industries. It is only those who have worked in industries where this obnoxious system prevails that realize how, ultimately, it is not for the benefit of the men engaged in those callings. Any . government, state or federal, ought to be prepared to pay the highest possible salaries to those who devote their brains to the management of the great state-owned enterprises of which, in proportion to its population, Australia has probably more than has any other country. 
The Government ought to be prepared to pay the highest possible fees for the services rendered by those who are employed to control these enterprises. For that reason, I want to see the Commonwealth Shipping Line become a great success; I want to see the shipping of Australia controlled by the Commonwealth, and I want to see other great industries nationalized and controlled by the people for the people. But to ensure success we must pay well for the best brains to control them. 
Shipping in, Australia is controlled by private enterprise. 
It is the business of those honorable senators who declare that affairs in Australia are in the control of any individual to&gt; see that the Government controls the country. 
My support will be given so long as justice is meted out to every one, but not if the Government uses its power to crush any body of working men. I support the proposal to pay the Commissioner of Railways £3,000 a year. If his responsibilities were greater I would, vote for a salary of £5,000. I shall always give my support to any proposal which will place the Government in the position of being able to get the best brains in the community for the control of great national enterprises. 
I also desire to support the bill, because I am satisfied that we must pay high salaries to get the best brains procurable for the control of a big business such as a railway system. In comparison with the £5,000 paid to the Commissioner of Railways in South Australia, the proposed salary of £3,000 for the Commonwealth Commissioner of Railways looks small. Taking into consideration the extent of railway construction likely to be undertaken by the Commonwealth, there may soon be a great deal more work for the Commissioner and his staff to do. When  Senator Hannan  was speaking of Governmentcontrolled concerns,  Senator Kingsmill  remarked, " Hence these tears." In the State of Victoria the Government controls the railways, water supply, tramways, electric lighting, and coal mines. No other state in the Commonwealth has so many Government-owned enterprises. It is pleasing to note that these stateowned enterprises have evidently come to stay in Australia, and I take the view that we should secure the very best brains ro control them, which, of course, means that we must pay well for them. 
I should like to explain to  Senator Lynch  what I meant by my reference to the irreducible minimum. Labour declares that no man in Australia shall be employed under what it says is the irreducible minimum, as laid down by the Arbitration Court. I am sorry to' say that the present Federal Government is employing labourers in the Post and Telegraph Department, in South Australia, at 7d. a day under the declared living wage of the state. 
In South Australia what is known as the Board of Industry, presided over by Professor Jethro Brown, declares the wage upon which a man who has a wife and three children can live in South Australia. This board has declared that 14s. 3d. a day is the irreducible minimum. Men can earn more. As honorable senators are well aware, in almost every industry in Australia many men, who are considered to be worth more, are paid more than the minimum laid down by the court. For instance, I reckon that I am worth £1,500 a year, and that  Senator Lynch  is not worth more than £200 a year. 
One cannot say much in three minutes.  Mr. Gladstone  used to take 26 minutes to get a proper 8 tart. 
My remarks will be relevant to the raising of some one's salary. I agree with  Senator Hannan  that Australia has been deprived of the services of many men, whose brains would have been- of great value to it, because we did not pay them sufficient salaries. A gentleman who- was' formerly employed by the South Australian Government as Trade Commissioner, at a salary of ?700 a year, waa offered ?5,000 by people in the Argentine, and, naturally, he accepted the offer. Me is a meat expert. We want experts in Australia. I hope that  Mr. Bel  will de* the right thing. I have nothings against him, except that I do not like his policy of building 3-ft.. 64a. railways. I think we ought to have a national gauge. The Commonwealth Parliament is bigger than a state Parliament, and should have a national policy. 
We have a 5-ffc. 3 - in. gauge and a 3-ft. 6-in. gauge tinder the control of the South Australian Commissioner of Railways. There is also a 4- ffc. 8?.in. line between Port Augustaand the Western Australian border under the control of the Commonwealth. It is in the interests of the Commonwealth to have a standard gauge, and I hope the Queensland senators- will see the wisdom of adopting a national policy in that respect. I hope that, notwithstanding; the fact that the Queensland lines are all 3-ft. 6-in., when the. north-south railway ia being built,, they will realize that it is better to convert their lines to the 4-ft. 8ia. gauge than for the Commonwealth to adopt the 3-ft.. 6-in. gauge, simply to suit Queensland's; requirements. 
Senate* Thompson. - The cost of such, a conversion would be enormous. 
It is  noi  the  cost which counts, with honorable senators  from  that state. If *hey are not prepared! t? consider a proposal to convert the Queensland railways to the 4-ft. 8^-in.. gauge, why are they supporting a proposal to build a. line of that gauge from Port Augustato Adelaide-, with the further prospect of  connecting  Port Augusta with the New South Wales system ? Why did they support, the building of the Grafton to South Brisbane railway on the 4-ft. 8^-in. gauge  I  My argument is unanswerable. The 4-ft. 8.-in. gauge is the standard to be accepted for Australia, and the people of Queensland will, eventually wake up. to the folly of building lines on the 3-ft. 6-in.  gauge,  because every additional thousand miles of 3r-ft. 6-in. gauge means a further tax on posterity. In any case, the cost of conversion would not hurt a. wealthy state like Queensland. 
WHat is the Western Australian gauge! 
Question resolved in- the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Report adopted. 
I regret that in drafting this bill the draftsman omitted to include a slight amendment which was made in the original agreement. Perhaps I may be permitted to explain the first amendment, which is somewhat technical. I move - 
That after the word " agreement,." line 1, the words " (in this act referred to as 'the principal agreement ')". be inserted. 
This is one amendment which I have to ask the committee to make. The other is to insert new annexures in the form of two maps- in the schedule. Unfortunately, when the bill was being prepared, tha draftsmen inserted maps bearing the signatures of witnesses that did not appear on the original agreement. The agreement, in the first place, was signed by  Mr. Fisher,  as Prime Minister of the Commonwealth, and' by  Mr. W.  A. Holman, as Premier of New South Wales, and was witnessed respectively by Messrs. M.L, Shepherd and E. B. Harkness. A copy of  it  was signed by  Mr. Fisher  and  Mr. Holman,  and witnessed respectively by  Mr. E.  A. Box and  Mr. F.  F. Clausen. 
The alterations in the schedule are of a minor character. It is necessary that we should have the second agreement inserted as the second schedule to the bill. The purpose of my amendment is to indicate that the agreement referred to in the bill is the " principal agreement." 
 It seems to me that, in view of the numerous amendments proposed, it would have been better if the Minister; had withdrawn the bill, and had it re-drafted. However, if he can assure the committee that the amendments will in no way alter the principle of the measure there will be no objection. 
Can the Minister say if a similar measure is being put through the New South Wales Parliament ? 
Will amendments similar to those now before the committee be inserted in the New South Wales measure? 
Then, I presume that the New South Wales bill will be a facsimile of the one as passed by the committee. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Amendment (by  Senator Pearce)  agreed to - 
That before the word " schedule," line 3, the word "first" be inserted, and that the following new sub-clause be added :  - " (2) The agreement made between the Commonwealth and the state and set out in the second schedule to this act is hereby ratified and confirmed." 
Honorable senators may experience some difficulty in ascertaining the difference between the agreements, but if they will look at the first clause of the second schedule they will see the words " plus 41/4 acres." This refers to the area of reclaimed land. It is to be construed as " including 41/4 acres." In the second clause, " 153/4 acres " is to be construed as " 161/4 acres." In other words, under the agreement we had the right to reclaim 161/4 acres, whereas the principal agreement indicated that we had the right to reclaim only 153/4 acres. In the third clause, which deals with the fee-simple of bed of harbour, we have the right to reclaim 63/4 acres instead of61/4 acres. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 4 consequentially amended and agreed to. 
The Schedule. 
Amendment (by  Senator Pearce)  agreed to - 
That the word "First" be inserted -before the word "Schedule". 
.- I move- 
That the words in Annexure " A ", " This is the Plan marked ' A ' referred to in the annexed agreement dated the 26th day of October 1915, made between the  Hon.  William Arthur Holman, and the Right  Hon.  Andrew Fisher. (Sgd.) E. A. Box (Sgd.) Andrew Fisher. (Sgd.)F. F. Clausen (Sgd.) W. A. Holman Commonwealth Crown Solicitor's Office ", he left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the words - " This is the plan marked ' A ' referred to in the annexed agreement dated the 26th day of October 3915, made between the Honorable William Arthur Holman and the Eight Honorable Andrew Fisher. 
Witness : (Signed) M. L. Shepherd (Initialled) A. F. (Signed) E. B. Harkness (Signed) W. A. Holman." 
This will bring the annexure into conformity with the original agreement. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Amendment (by  Senator Pearce)  agreed to - 
That the words in Annexure " B ", " This is the plan marked ' B ' referred to in the annexed agreement dated the 26th day of October 1915, made between the Honorable William Arthur Holman and the Bight Honorable Andrew Fisher. 
Witness : (signed) E. A. Box (signed) Andrew Fisher (signed) F. F. Clausen (signed) W. A. Holman (Commonwealth Crown Solicitor's Office)", be left out with a view to insert in lieu thereof the following words :  - " This is the plan marked ' B ' referred to in the annexed agreement dated the 26th day of October 1915 made between the Honorable William Arthur Holman and the Bight Honorable Andrew Fisher. 
Witness : (Initialled) M. L. S. (Initialled) A. F. (Signed) E. B. Harkness (Signed) W. A. Holman " 
The Schedule, as amended, agreed to. 
I move- 
That the following new schedule be added :  - " The Second Schedule. 
This agreement made the twelfth day of September One thousand nine hundred and twenty-four between the Honorable  Sir George  WarburtonFuller the Premier of the State of New South Wales for and on behalf of the Government of the said State of the one part and the Honorable Stanley Melbourne Bruce, P.C., M.C., the Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of Australia for and on behalf of the Government of the said Commonwealth of the other part Whereas this Agreement is supplemental to an Agreement under seal (hereinafter called ' the Principal Agreement ') made the twenty-sixth day of October One thousand nine hundred and fifteen between the Honorable William Arthur Holman for and on behalf of the Government of the State of New South Wales of the one part and the Bight Honorable Andrew Fisher for and on behalf of the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia of the other part and is intended to be annexed thereto 
And whereas as certain errors have been discovered in certain of the annexures to the Principal Agreement and for the purpose of correcting the same the parties hereto desire to vary, the Principal Agreement* in manner hereinafter appearing 
Now This Agreement Witnesseth - 
The words and figures ' Cockatoo Island - Freehold land 32 acres plus 41/4 acres reclaimed ' written in the column headed  Particulars' in Anuexure ' C' to the Principal Agreement shall be read and construed as though the words and figures  Cockatoo Island - Freehold land 32 acres including 41/4 acres reclaimed ' had at all material times been written therein in place of the words and figures first mentioned in this clause. 
The words and figures ' Fee simple of bed of harbour with right to reclaim 153/4 acres ' written in the said column headed  Particulars ' in Annexure' C ' to the Principal Agreement shall be read and construed as though the words and figures  Fee simple of bed of harbour with' right to reclaim 161/4 acres ' had at all material times been written therein in place of the words and figures first mentioned in this clause. 
The words andfigures Fee simple of bed of harbour with right to reclaim 61/4 acreswritten in the seventh and eighth lines of the column headed ' Particulars ' in the said Annexure ' C ' shall be read and construed as though the words and figures ' Fee simple of bed of harbour with right to reclaim 63/4 acres ' had at all material times been written therein in place of the words and figures first mentioned in this clause. 
Save and except as it is varied by this Agreement the Principal Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. 
In the event of any Legislative Authority being necessary on the part of the State Parliament to confirm or render effective the Principal Agreement and this Agreement or any part of the Principal Agreement or this" Agreement the Premier undertakes to obtain such Legislative Authority without delay. In the event of any Legislative Authority being necessary on the part of the Commonwealth Parliament to confirm or render effective the Principal Agreement and this Agreement or any part of the Principal Agreement or this Agreement the Prime Minister undertakes to obtain such Legislative Authority without delay. 
In witness whereof the parties hereto have hereunto set their hands and seals the day and year first above written. 
Signed sealed and delivered by the said The Honorable  Sir George  Warburton Fuller in the presence of - (l.s.) (Signed) George W. Fuller. (Signed) F. C. G. Tremlett. 
Signed sealed and delivered by the said The Honorable Stanley Melbourne Bruce, P.C., M.C.,'in the presence of - (l.s.) (Signed) S. M. Bruce. (Signed) F. Strahan." 
In annexure " C " to the first schedule the words " plus four and a quarter acres " are used instead of " including four and a quarter acres"; the words "fifteen and threequarter acres " instead of " sixteen and a half acres" are used; and the words " six and a quarter acres " instead of " six and three-quarter acres " appear. That is practically the only difference. The other alterations are of a minor nature, and were found to be necessary as the result of subsequent negotiations. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Title agreed to." 
Bill reported with amendments. 
.- I rise with a good deal of pleasure to speak to this motion. I have perused the budget speech fairly carefully, and have had a cursory glance through the budgetpapers and Estimates. One cannot fail to be impressed by the great care that has (evidently been exercised in the preparation of these valuable papers, which contain the whole of the information that honorable .senators should have. In my opinion, the preparation of the speech reflects very great credit upon the Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page).  As a rule a budget speech is a very uninteresting document. The present Treasurer, however, evidently laid himself out to prepare his speech in such a way that one would be able to grasp the details that appear in the papers, and gain a fair indication of the work of the Government during the past year. It is gratifying to read of the successful results of the Government's operations. It is always satisfactory to learn that a surplus is disclosed in the accounts at the end of a financial year. Some persons who profess to take a very keen interest in the transactions of the 'Commonwealth object to the accounts showing a surplus. I am very well aware, from experience, of the difficulty of estimating accurately the years' revenue and expenditure. I was not at all surprised to find that, as a result of the operations of the Tariff Act, the revenue received through the Customs reached very great dimensions. The fact that there was an excess of revenue over the estimate of something like £4,000,000, enabling a surplus of £3,018,000 to be shown, .convinces me that the people of Australia have been unprecedently  prosperous during the past year, and that their spending power was not in any way diminished. 
That is so. One cannot help wondering what would have been the result of the year's operations had trade and commerce been allowed to proceed smoothly instead of being frequently disturbed by industrial troubles. T believe that we should then have had a surplus of over £5,000,000. 
It has been an excellent result in this case, because we shall be able to relieve cases of distress and utilize considerable sums of money in directions that will be of advantage to. the Commonwealth. That would not have been possible had a surplus not been obtained. I do not believe that any Treasurer should budget for a big surplus. In the past year, however, the causes that lead to a surplus being obtained were beyond the control of the Treasurer. 
A pleasing feature of the speech is the reference to the proposal of the Government to increase to £1 a week the old-age and invalid pensions. Notwithstanding their criticism of the Government and ite supporters, honorable senators opposite must be convinced that it is doing all that it can to make better and happier the lot of those people who, for various reasons, are nob able to look after themselves. 
The Government is calling upon the big man to contribute a very large proportion of the direct taxation of the 'Commonwealth. I have no desire to bolster up the big man, but later on I shall quote figures that will probably enlighten the honorable 'senator and induce him to refrain from asking similar questions in future. I feel sure that the addition to the old-age and invalid pension will be welcomed by those who participate, in it. The total sum thus involved will be about £787,000. 
Another feature of the speech is the expectation that this year there will be an increase of £2,141,000 in the expenditure of the Commonwealth. We hear on all sides the assertion that the time has arrived for a diminution in the cost of government. There is a great deal 'to be said in support of such a. desire. Many persons are appalled when they- learn the extent to which the expenditure of the Commonwealth .and the states has grown during the last ten years. If honorable senators will turn to page 5 of  the  Treasurer's speech, however, they will find that the proposed additional expenditure is practically unavoidable. The bulk of it will go in interest on loans to the states, additional old-age and invalid pensions, interest and sinking fund on war loans, extra expenditure on defence, an increase in the per capita payments to the states brought about by larger populations, and war and repatriation services. - The net increase in the expenditure, alter making deductions on account of the discontinuance of the special Tasmanian grant and new works and buildings* will be £2,141,000. Unless honorable senators can point to any department in which a saving could be effected., it will be foolish for them to cavil at the proposed increase- in the. expenditure. 
I read with interest the reference on page 8 to the royal commission that is investigating the financial position of Western Australia. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  has definitely promised that if the report of the commission proves that its appointment was justified, a similar inquiry will be made into the financial position of Tasmania. Personally, I can hardly agree with that attitude. Irrespective of whether the arrangements made for inquiring into the financial position of Western Australia prove to be satisfactory or not, Tasmania's position should be investigated. Published statistics have made it patent to public men, for a long while, that the time is ripe for the Commonwealth to inquire fully into the position of any state, the finances of which are unsatisfactory. 
That is so. I have said on other occasions that every state is an integral part of the Commonwealth. 
It is only fair and reasonable that her financial position should be investigated. 
Our people are paying more taxation than those of several of the other states. 
Tremendous increases in taxation have been made within the last two years. The position now has become most burdensome. 
It has been under the control of Labour Governments for a number of years. I believe that the Government will accede to our request to inquire into Tasmania's position. 
The reference in the budget speech to the work done by the Commonwealth Health Department during the last year leads, me to say, quite definitely, that no matter how much has been done in the past, there is a tremendous need for greatly increased activity in the future. I had the opportunity, lately, of attending two lectures in Melbourne,, which have indicated to me that certain diseases are playing havoc with our people. It is essential that something should be done to prevent the spread of venereal disease, which is undoubtedly Australia's greatest menace. We can no longer look upon this as a state responsibility, for it is national in every sense of the word. I advise honorable senators to attend the series of. lectures to which I have referred. Urgent matters touching public health are dealt with in an interesting and informative way by competent lecturers, who are not cranks, but scientists.. We ought to. launch a big campaign against this terrible scourge. In the nature of things, the state governments cannot properly cover the ground. Different states may do very good work, but they cannot prevent sufferers going from one state to another. Effective action will entail heavy expenditure, but I have, no doubt that if the Government introduced a well-considered plan for combating the disease, it would be supported by honorable senators of all parties. 
I come now to that part. of the budget speech which deals with business undertakings. The Treasurer pointed out that the expenditure from revenue last year in the Postmaster-General's Department alone totalled £10,288,437, and he estimated that the expenditure for the ensuing year would be £10,616,435, an increase of £327,998. Although that seems a large increase, one has to bear in mind that with our growing population we must expand our departments. Last year's expenditure from revenue in this department would have been very much greater had it not been for the new policy that the Government has adopted. The Treasurer said in this connexion- 
Tlie increase would have been much greater but for the fact that the Government has now approved of charging to loan, a portion of the salaries and wages of .permanent employees who ure engaged upon  capital  construction. 
In my opinion it is reasonable that a. proportion of . the wages of permanent employees who are engaged upon capital constructions should be debited to such work. Until a few years ago that was not done at all. Even in 1919-20 and 1920-1 it was done to only a limited extent. A continuation of the old policy would have been unfair to the taxpayers. I believe that so long as the raising of money for expenditure on capital work is reasonably safeguarded, and an adequate sinking fund provided, the present policy will meet with the unqualified approval of members of both Houses of Parliament. 
I wish to direct attention to the magnificent work that is being done by the Postmaster-General's Department in providing new trunk and other telephone lines, and in extending the existing services. The country owes a great deal, not only to the present PostmasterGeneral  (Mr. Gibson),  but also to his two predecessors, for the adoption of this policy. The  Hon.  A. Poynton was the first Postmaster-General to introduce a programme of any magnitude in this regard.  His  scheme was looked upon as being most progressive. Last year 47,000 miles of trunk and telephone wire were erected, and it is expected that 48,000 miles will be erected this year. We are a small community after all, and the Government and the department may well be proud if in two years they are able to erect 95,000 miles of trunk and telephone wires. The problem is being tackled effectively. 
Part 3 of the budget speech refers to the territories under Commonwealth control. Recently we had a long debate on the Northern Territory, and I shall not have anything to say about it. I propose to make a few remarks upon the Mandated Territory of New Guinea, for which a grant of £10,000 is proposed. Some honorable senators may not realize the necessity for this. It is for the purpose of assisting the medical department there. It is the only amount that has ever been granted to the Territory. 
I took the trouble to examine the last report presented to the League of Nations on the administration of this Territory, and the only reference I can find there is to a grant of £10,000 for the Health Department. I have had the privilege of twice visiting this Territory, and I realize the need for this department. 
I am glad of that, but I can find no record of it. The total revenue of this Territory last year was £248,743. 
So far as I have been able to gather, that revenue was received from internal sources, apart from the Government grant of £10,000. The total expenditure of the administration during last year was £263,000. The year's operations, therefore, ended in a deficit of £5,000, which must be considered to be very satisfactory. My two visits to the Territory convinced me that a very large sum of money will have to be spent by the health authorities there. The value of medical supplies issued from the dispensary last year was £6,718, which is considerably more than twothirds of the total amount voted for the Territory, and I gathered that there is great need for increasing the amount of the vote. The ravages of tuberculosis,  frambosia,  tropical ulcers, and other diseases common to tropical countries are such that the capacity of the native hospitals must be increased. The equipment in the hospitals needs standardizing, in order to deal effectively with these diseases. A start has been made by scientific investigations to ascertain their origin, but honorable senators will realize the difficulty, confronting the authorities in the Territory when I tell them that there are approximately 500,000 natives there, of whom a very large proportion pass through the hands of the medical authorities. The future of the Territory depends entirely on maintaining, if not increasing, the numbers of the natives there. Consequently, the healthier or the freer from disease we can make them the better it will be for the Commonwealth. Honorable senators can easily understand why I am so enthusiastic in advocating that the Commonwealth Government should not be behindhand in doing all it can to help the good work done by the Health Department in the Territory. Instances have been brought under my notice of cases which have been treated up to a certain point, and then dropped because of lack of funds. The consequence is that a proportion of the expenditure is more or less' wasted. Success can be achieved only by continuity of effort until the diseases are practically "scotched." Therefore, I trust that the vote will be considerably increased. 
It is pleasing to learn from the budget speech that this year the income tax is to be reduced by 12A per cent. Many people posing as financial experts have been advocating, through the columns of the press, that the Federal Government should go out pf the sphere of direct taxation, and particularly that it should leave the field of income taxation to the states; but I have  some  figures to place before honorable senators which show the futility of such a suggestion at this juncture. Those who complain about the burden of the income tax upon the taxpayers of the Commonwealth overlook the fact that a few years ago we were embroiled in a world's war,  which  necessitated the expenditure of enormous sums of borrowed money, that we have to find £20,574,000 this year to pay our interest and sinking fund contributions in respect of our war debt, and that the income tax does not yield one-half of this amount. When I hear any person growling about paying Federal income tax, I remind him that he has forgotten the promise which was made to the men who were asked to enlist, that the people of Australia would stand behind them to the last shilling. The contributions of the Commonwealth  taxpayers  in the shape of income tax cover only portion of the annual burden incurred by the war. 
Because the fin an.ces of the Commonwealth permit it. 
The budget papers indicate that income tax is paid by very few individuals. . 
If the honorable senator had his way they would be the only persons paying taxation either direct or indirect. 
The honorable senator should realize, as every one ought to, that our soldiers fought not for a section, but for the whole of the people of Australia. Every person in the Commonwealth is indebted to them. Consequently every individual in proportion to his ability should bear his share of the indebtedness caused by the war. 
Last year  Senator Hoare  did not object to the raising of the exemption which relieved many thousands of people from the payment of income tax. 
The honorable senator should know what every, public man ought to know - that the people who invested their money in Commonwealth loans free of income tax lent it at lj per cent, less interest than they could have obtained outside. They thus made a direct personal contribution to the war expenditure by accepting 4$ per cent, interest, when 5^ to 6 per cent, was the ruling rate outside. 
I have never previously heard so much ingratitude expressed by an honorable senator. We should be grateful to those people who brought their money willingly and freely to the aid of the Commonwealth in its time of need. The exemption from income tax did not represent to them more than i per cent. It is interesting to learn that the amount paid this year in interest on the war debt and towards the sinking fund is £20,574,000," while the revenue from income tax-, which was imposed to enable the Commonwealth to meet its war obligations, is estimated to be £9,650,000. Honorable senators ought to be reminded of the fact that portion of our war expenditure was met out of revenue to the extent of £170,000,000- a wonderful feat for a community of five and a half millions of people; and the fact that in the last financial year the Commonwealth Government was able to meet its huge interest bill and wind up with a surplus is a record of which it ought to be proud, and with which Parliament ought to be pleased. 
I shall quote some figures to enlighten the honorable senator and, perhaps, prevent him from making statements in public which are incorrect. 
I think they will.  Senator Hoare  is a very reasonable man. He is always open to -conviction. If he has said anything in the past not in accord with the facts, I am sure he will express his regret to his constituents for having unwittingly misled them. The latest figures available show that at the end of 1923 the number of taxpayers in Australia with an income of under £500 was 405,784, whereas those with incomes of over £500 numbered 58,514. The total number of income taxpayers during that year was 464,298. Out of that total 405,784 individuals paid £1,196,450 in income tax, while 58,514 persons paid the enormous sum of £7*588,000. These figures corroborate what I .have often said, that the few who have been able to bear the burden have borne it, while .the great bulk of the people have been assisted to escape the impost placed on them by the war. 
I now wish to .give two or three instances which prove conclusively who are the real friends of the farmers in this Parliament. The budget figures, which have been carefully compiled, give the exact position. At page 13 of the Treasurer's speech, reference is made to the assistance already  afforded,  and that which will be forthcoming iii the interests of a large number of men who have been battling away on the land for years. The operations of many settlers have been severely hampered owing to the lack of funds with which to purchase the material necessary to keep pests in check. A paragraph in the "budget speech reads - 
In view of the heavy loss to national production caused by the rabbit and dingo pests, the Government has decided to intro duce legislation to enable land-holders to obtain money on easy conditions for the purpose of erecting vermin-proof fencing more rapidly than would otherwise be possible. Assistance will be given .by means of longterm loans to the states, who will deal direct with the land-holders in such matters as making advances and collecting interest, .lt is proposed to lend £3,000,000 in all, spread over six years, the first instalment  of  £500,000 being made -available this financial year. By making substantial interest concessions to .the states, it is expected that -% permanent fund will bc built up in order that The states, without further assistance from the Commonwealth, will be able to make adequate advances in future to land-holders to combat these pests. 
No.  
I am speaking, of the Commonwealth Government, and not of- the activities of state governments. No Federal Government has ever done more for the people of the Commonwealth than the Nationalist Government. .The Nationalist Government and its supporters axe denounced from time to time by honorable senators opposite. 
I am glad the honorable senator is so candid. 
I have never condemned the honorable senator or his party, although I do  not  agree with its policy. It will be futile for the members of the Labour party to tell the people that the Nationalist party is not the friend of the farmers. Notwithstanding all that may be said by honorable members of the Labour party in both chambers, the people will be told exactly what has been done in the interests of our rural producers 
I wish now to refer to the question of land settlement, and particularly to the position of soldier settlers. I do not wish to deal with the causes which have brought about the hard times experienced by many soldier settlers, some of which might have been avoided, but others doubtless resulted from circumstances over which they 'had no control. Many settlers have been hampered in their operations by taking up land which is over-capitalized, and others by occupying holdings which are totally unsuitable for the purpose for which they were obtained. The Government I am supporting, and the party to which I belong, fully realize that the time for acrimonious discussion on this question has passed. It is our endeavour to render financial assistance to those brave men who are making an effort to earn a living for themselves and rheir families. What isbeing done? Fortunately, owing to the satisfactory financial position during the last year or two, the Government is able to render needed 'assistance. The total cost to the Commonwealth of one concession to be made willbe £4,740,000, and a paragraph in the 'Treasurer's budget speech, which is self-explanatory, reads - 
As substantial interest concessions were to be granted to -the soldier settlers, . and as 'the states had to lace other losses under the scheme, the Commonwealth agreed to share the burden by reducing the rate of interest on each loan by21/2 percent. per annum during the first five years of its . currency. Thisconcession was also allowed in respect of certain moneys raised 'by the states themselves with the consent -of the Commonwealth. 
The total cost to theCommonwealth of this concession will be £4,740,699. In addition, the Commonwealth paid sustenance allowances, pending productivity of farms, totalling £501,561, and payments of this character still continue. The Commonwealth has -thus contributed to date more than £5,000,000 towards soldier land settlement. 
As it is evident the losses of the states wall be greater than at first anticipated, the Government has considered what further assistance should 'be given to the States so as to provide for . the equitable distribution between Commonwealth and states of the total losses. After a careful review of the position, the Government decided that it is proper now to writeoff £5,000,000 of the loans made by the Commonwealth to the states for this purpose. 
That is another way in which the Government is helping to lighten the burden of the man on the land, and assisting him to combat the difficulties with which he has te contend. 
I read with interest that although £500,000 has been granted for road construction in past years, the Government now propose to introduce legislation to increase the amount to£750,000 for the present financial year.Up to the present we have not, perhaps, received the best value for the money expended, but I have never known a new Commonwealth or state 'departure to be altogether successful from the outset. It is only fey experience that we areable to detect the mistakes made in the past.I am hopeful that the Government and the Minister controlling this department will fully inquire into this question to see that our national highways are placed -in such a condition that they will be able to carry the traffic for which they were constructed, and that attention will he devoted to the opening up' of roads, the construction of which will lead to further development. 
It is also satisfactory to note the manner in which our national debt has been (reduced during  the  last few years. Last year the amount used for that purpose was £5,529,467. On page 23 of the Treasurer's speech reference is made to the future borrowing policy of the Government, and' it is gratifying to note . that the Government recognize that the internal borrowing which to a great extent was unavoidable during the war period, and the years immediately following the war, should., as far as possible, be discontinued. Under a system of internal borrowing iflie difficulties of many settlers, and others engaged in commercial pursuits were accentuated, as the financial assistance they required to enable them to carry on their undertakings was not readily forthcoming. It is pleasing therefore to learn that the Government has wisely decided to restrict internal borrowing, which should result in industries already established increasing their production, and others being established. 
I hope that every care will be 'exercised in the OldCountry to ensure the migration, to Australia, of the right class of people, who are most likely to adapt themselves readily to our conditions. Unfortunately, many migrants, after spending a mouth or two in country districts, surrender to the. superior attractions of ourcities, take up city industrial occupations, and in some cases swell the ranks of the unemployed. If care is taken  in  the selection of the people, a great deal of good will result, because we want our country districts more densely populated, so that our production may increase. At the risk of wearying honorable senators, I quote the following from the Treasurer's budget speech to indicate clearly what has been done by the National Government during the last few years: - ; 
The record of financial adjustment made in and since 1922-3 is both important and striking. In 1922-3, when the present Prime Minister was in  office  &gt;as Treasurer, certain reductions in taxation' were made. The policy and administration of the Government in the ensuing three years have been such as not merely to continue these reductions, but, in each subsequent year, to make further reductions in taxation, all of which are cumulative. 

<graphic href="111332192508272_17_0.jpg"></graphic>


 [Extension of time granted.] If these facts are brought home to the people, I have not the slightest hesitation in saying that, their appreciation will be such as to ensure for the National Government and the National party a continuance of power to carry on the good work in the future. 
I wish now to utter a note of warning. In Australia we have the finest country, and we ought to be the happiest people in the world. It appears, however, that the more favorable our conditions the more enraged a certain section of our people become, and the greater efforts they make to unsettle the minds of our industrial population. Fancy any person endorsing the statement that any individuals ,in Australia are slaves ! Undoubtedly, we have the best country in the world, and if we could get all sections of our people to realize its  possibilities  Australia would very quickly be the envy of the civilized world. But this happy state of affairs cannot be brought about by strife, and the manufacture of industrial grievances. On one occasion when a prominent Labour politician, who is now a state Minister, was addressing electors, 
I interjected that he was always trying to make men discontented, and he replied - " Of course, that is our policy. When we see men contented, we look upon them as slaves." Recent events have confirmed us in this view of that class of politician, and I say that Australia is no place for them. It" only our people would all pull together arid keep the wheels of industry going, Australia could easily maintain a population, not of 6,000,000, but of 20,000,000 people. The other day something happened that completely astounded me. We have lately gone through a deplorable shipping strike, in which the steamship service to my state was completely dislocated. As a result of negotiations, a settlement was arrived at a few weeks ago, and we were informed that the Seamen's Union had definitely abandoned the principle of. job control. Naturally, the people expected that everything would work smoothly for the future. Unhappily, that expectation is not being realized. Very shortly after the signing of the agreement, there was an instance of job control in Melbourne, and I think the people ought to be informed of the insincerity of certain members of an organization that was a party to the agreement. A week or two ago the steamer  Lutana  arrived at Hobart from Melbourne with a union crew on board. Quite contrary to the instructions of the union officials in Melbourne, who had ordered the union crew to bring the steamer back to Melbourne, the men left the ship at Hobart. The cook remained on the vessel. He is a member of the cook's organization. I have seen his ticket, and I know that it does not expire until next October, so no exception could be taken to him on that account. He received no instructions from his union to  go  on strike, and, as I said, he remained on the vessel to look after the needs of the officers. A volunteer crew having been obtained, the  Lutana  was brought back to Melbourne. On the return trip the union crew, which had then been signed on, refused to take the vessel to sea unless the cook was put ashore and a new cook obtained. They objected, so they said, to sail with a man who cooked for " scabs." Was that not job control? The captain was obliged to put the cook ashore and pay his fare back to Hobart. All this has happened since the agreement was arrived at between .the Ship-owners' Federation and the Seamen's Union. 
Undoubtedly it was. I mention this incident to show that even now there is every need to keep awake to prevent this pernicious principle of job control from being exercised. 
In conclusion, I should like to say that the position of Australia, as disclosed by the budget papers, is apparently very satisfactory, and I am sure that if we can keep our industrial machinery well oiled by the exercise of common sense, we shall ensure for Australia as great prosperity in the future as was experienced in the year just closed. 
I intend to confine my remarks principally to the Treasurer's intimation concerning the proposed increase in invalid and old-age pensions. In his budget statement for 1923 the Government provided for an increase from 15s. to 17s. 6d. per week. That was very acceptable to our pensioners, and I commended the Treasurer at the time. We are now informed that it is proposed to increase the pensions from 17s. 6d. to £1 per week. The following statement appears in the Treasurer's budget speech: - 
Honorable members will remember that, following the proposals made in my budget speech in 1923, the rate of invalid and old-age pensions was raised from 30s. to 35s. a fortnight, to bring the pension to a basis corresponding to the increase in the cost of living since the original payments were begun. The Government at .that time stated that the existing system did not fully satisfy the needs of the community, did not remove that sense of insecurity which haunts great numbers of people throughout their life, because of the fear of accident, sickness, unemployment, and a  destiti,de  old age after a life of toil. The Government, therefore, proposed a royal commission to examine the whole matter. A royal commission was appointed accordingly to report on national insurance, and has now been sitting for two years. It has .presented an  interim  report, which indicates that, during the present session, its researches will have been sufficiently advanced to enable the Government to bring down a national insurance scheme, at any rate in connexion with old ago and sickness, even if -the research into the question of unemployment is not completed. Information at present in the hands of the Government shows that a payment of 20s. per week will be found to be that most closely approximating the requirements and conditions of a national insurance scheme. The Government considers that it would be an anomaly for existing invalid and old-age .pensions to bc kept on a different scale. Provision, therefore, is being made in the Estimates for the increase of invalid and. old-age pensions to fi per week, simultaneously with the passage of such portions of the national insurance proposals as may be approved by Parliament. 
The Government desires .to dispel the fear of members of friendly societies that some action may be taken to hinder the good work they are doing in the portion of the field that they cover. It will be remembered that the Government specially asked .the commission to consider the possibility of associating the present machinery of friendly societies with national insurance administration, so that administrative costs might be kept down. In view of the imminence of this legislation, and in view of .the removal, in 1923, of the anomalies then existing in the pensions laws, no further action in this connexion beyond the increase mentioned will be taken until after the consideration of the proposals for national insurance. The Government considers that it would be an anomaly for existing invalid and old-age pensions to be kept on a different scale. Provision, therefore, is being made in the Estimates for the increase of invalid and old-age pensions to £1 per week, simultaneously with the passage of such portions of the national insurance proposals as nm-y be. passed by Parliament. 
Will the bill, embodying portion of the recommendations of the National Insurance Commission, have to be passed by Parliament before the increased pension is granted, or is it the intention of the Government to bring down immediately an amending bill to grant the increase ? If appears to me that the pensioners will not receive it before the end of the year. Having a surplus of £3,000,000,, the Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page)  should, in fairness, make the increase applicable immediately. The purchasing power of the sovereign is not any greater to-day than it was at this time last year. Although the proposed increase of 2s. 6d. a week will prove acceptable to those who rely upon the pension, I do not consider that the extra sum will be sufficient to meet their needs. 

 Senator Payne referred to health matters, and to the anxiety of the Government to do all in its' power to assist in the cure of certain specified diseases. I entirely agree with his remarks. I favour the nationalization of health, and also the nationalization of the medical profession. The Government, if it is willing to meet the necessary expenditure, should be able to secure the services of the best men in the medical profession. It should have the use of the best skill that is available for the treatment of occupational and other diseases.. Occupational diseases are very extensive iu the auriferous mines of Western Australia. The experience there is that nien do not work underground for very lengthy periods before they contract diseases that are peculiar to their occupations. 
I agree that that is SOl but much more remains to be done. There are stages of the miners' complaint known as: fibrosis,,  pneumokoniosis,  and tuberculosis. There are on record cases of tuberculosis in the Old. Country that have been cured by . the Spahlinger treatment. In that connexion, I refer honorable* senators to the Melbourne  Argus  of the 1 5th August, in which they will find a report relating to persons, who have been under  Mr. Spahlinger'^  treatment, and have been perfectly cured and made fit to follow their occupations. One manhas shown no trace of tlie disease for twelve months, although, prior to undergoing  Mr. Spahlinger's  treatment, he was given up by the doctors. If  Mr. Spahlinger  has a serum that is capable of combating consumption the Government should obtain supplies to enable the medical profession in Australia to treat that disease. Last session t when this matter was referred to, we were informed that the Prime Minister was conducting negotiations regarding the methods that were being adopted, the quantity of serum that could be supplied, and its cost.. It was. said that  Mr. Spahlinger  would not put hia card's on the table, or publish the results, of his scientific research.. In the  Argus  report to which I have, referred, there are descriptions by doctors who have watched the effects upon the patients and have subjected them, to teats which prove that they have been cured. Consumption causes terrible ravages amongst thousands of people. Those who work in woollen mills and flour mills., for example, get dust on the lungs* and ultimately suffer from lung complaints. I agree with  Senator Payne  that sufficient information or instruction is not given  to young people to enable them to' protect themselves from certain diseases-. The subject being a delicate one, it is too often allowed to slide. The Government could' not do better than nationalize public health in&lt; order to- combat the dreadful diseases to which the burman race is prone. 
I hove perused wish interest the figures, relating to the proposed expenditure ora defence.. Since the Armistice was signed the Government lias spent on defence no less than £30,000, 000, or even, a greater amount. According- to the advices that we have received, the benefits which have- been derived from that expenditure are very slight. I have no desire to. sound a discordant note. I realize that we must take defensive measures-; but at the same time one wonders what is done with this large expenditure that is; incurred from time to time with very little- result. Quite recently Parliament decided that two cruisers should, be constructed' in Scotland. Those vessels are to be attached to the British- Navy. Although I do not.' altogether object to that, I want to know where we stand. Why are we not to' have those cruisers in our own waters ? It appears as though we are spending millions of pounds on vessels that will not be able to protect us.. 
I am not so foolish as to say that. I am quite satisfied that it has protected Australia, and that it will continue to do so.. But what I want to know is, whether our expenditure is being incurred in directions that will benefit most the Motherland or Australia. 
We have in Australia a naval college which gives instruction in naval science to young men, to fit them to take charge of these vessels. When these cruisers are attached to the 
British Navy they arc manned by British naval officers, if the consent of the Governor-General-iii-Council is given to that coror.se. I want to know why the Naval College cannot educate our men sufficiently to enable them to fill some of the higher, ranks. 
If it were necessary, I should. 
Some of our men put in a longer period than that. If the college cannot educate them to become officers, something is wrong. I should not do opposed to this expenditure if the vessels were manned by Australians, and they were kept in Australian waters to protect our shores. Of course, if they assist the navies of other nations to police the oceans, they are indirectly helping to defend Australia. 
Yes. 
I wish now to refer to the main roads grant. I agree with the view that  Senator J.  B. Hayes expressed in this chamber recently, that tho local governing bodies ought to- be permitted to spend the roads grant where they think fit. Their officers are better qualified than those of an outside body to advise on the matter. I have had a good deal of experience in municipal matters, and I feel confident that the Government could safely give the local governing bodies more authority in the expenditure of this grant. 
I am referring to the conditions in my o°wn state of Western Australia.  Senator J.  B. Hayes spoke the other night of Tasmanian conditions. I have never been to Tasmania, but I know the conditions in Western Australia. 
That is  so.  Senator J.  B. Hayes told us- of a stretch of good road, 30 miles out of Launceston, that, was made with the help of Commonwealth money. He said that the approach to it was extremely bad, and so was the road on the other side of it. That kind of thing should not be allowed. 
I suppose that the Commonwealth Government had a supervisor there. 
In regard to immigration, I agree with  Senator Payne  that there is room in Australia for hundreds of thousands of the right type of people, but, unfortunately, we seem almost invariably to get the wrong type. Much more care should be exercised in selecting our migrants. Even if some Immigrants do go into the country districts on their arrival, they very soon drift back to the cities. I would welcome the right class of immigrants -if provision was made to receive them. 
I am not, but I coral d get tha information.. 
I find that in the three months from January to March of this year the following arrivals in Australia were reported: - 

<graphic href="111332192508272_21_1.jpg"></graphic>

At any rate, we find crowds of them in the streets without food and homeless. 
I propose now to devote a few minutes to a consideration of the gold-mining industry of Western Australia. I strongly advocate the' payment of a bounty of £1 per oz. on all the gold produced. It is well known that, in consequence of the Commonwealth Government commandeering the gold produced during the war years, the mineowners lost something like £3,000,000. Almost every commodity in use increased in price during the war, and all the producers, except those concerned in gold production, reaped the reward of the increase. The gold-mining industry, however, was penalized to such an extent that many centres which were formerly nourishing towns, are now nothing but deserted camps. In many cases, machinery has been pulled down, and houses either demolished or removed. The present high cost of mining requisites prevents the companies from working their low-grade ores. A bounty would stimulate the industry, and lead to the employment of thousands who are today out of work. 
I quite- realize that ore can only be taken out of a mine once. 
That might happen; but a bounty of, say, '  £1  per oz. would certainly enable a large tonnage of 6 dwt. to 8 dwt. ore to be worked. It would also ensure that the mine-owners would get at least 10s. or 12s. a ton on all the ore raised to the surface, and make activity possible where it is impossible to-day. 
But it would revive a languishing industry.  Senator Lynch  will bear me out when I say that many mining centres from Kalgoorlie northwards, which were once progressive and flourishing, are now practically deserted. 
A bounty would enable ore carrying 6 dwt. of gold to the ton to be worked. 
Mines at Boulder, for instance, the Perseverance - which is being worked on tribute - as well as the Ivanhoe and Lake View, have in their best days turned out as much as a ton of gold a month. There are still some rich patches, but there is also low-grade ore in them that could be worked if a little help were provided. I urge the Government to give careful consideration to this proposal. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Thompson)  adjourned. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.20 to S p.m. 

As I have spoken many times in this chamber on the effect of the Navigation Act on Tasmania, 1" do not intend to say much during this debate. I wholeheartedly support  Senator Ogden  in his motion for the abolition of the coasting provisions of (he act. Whenever any trouble arises which makes it more necessary than usual for Tasmania to have the benefit of communicating with the mainland by means of vessels which are now prohibited from taking part in the coasting trade of Tasmania, we are told that the owners of these vessels, if they choose to apply for it, can get an exemption to carry passengers between the mainland and the island. But we always find that the provision of the act which enables them to do this is not of the slightest use, because the owners of the vessels are either afraid of possible consequences, or have some other reason for not applying for exemption. In these circumstances the people of Tasmania feel that the only relief they can obtain is to have the coastal provisions  of the act repealed. As honorable senators are well aware, a royal commission travelled all over Australia at considerable expense, and took evidence in most parts of the Commonwealth upon the effect of the operations of the Navigation Act. I have no doubt the seven members of that co]nmission were carefully chosen. Four of them came to the conclusion that Tasmania should have some form of relief. They were not unanimous as to what that form of relief should be, two of them favouring the abolition of the coastal provisions, and the other two saying that overseas vessels should be allowed to- trade between the mainland and Tasmania on the payment of Customs duty. At any rate, four members of the commission were so impressed with the conditions of Tasmania that they said the state should have some form of relief. 
I believe they were, but I do not know that it is a Labour or a non-Labour question-. I believe that when" members of Parliament are appointed to a royal commission they sink their political feelings, and endeavour to do justice to the case presented to them, and I would rather deal with the matter from the aspect that they were all out to do justice to the whole of Australia. Of the seven there were four who came to one conclusion, and three who came to another. Their motives did not effect the position at all. I take it that they gave their decision conscientiously in accordance with the evidence placed before them. At any rate, four of them said that Tasmania should have some form of relief, and when a majority of a commission says that some relief should be afforded, I think the Senate ought to be generous enough to abide by the decision of that majority, and give the state some form of relief. 
There were three in all. There was no unanimous report, nor was there actually a majority report, because of the four who thought that some relief should be given to Tasmania, two were of opinion that it should take a certain form, and the other two were of a different opinion. However, the four of them said that the state was suffering, as undoubtedly it is, from the operation of the act. From an Australian point of view the Navigation Act is probably a good one, but it has certainly some very bad features, which very seriously affect Tasmania. To the people of that state it is an irksome and irritating statute, because it deprives them of means of communication, which formerly brought to Tasmania the very best class of tourists. The tourist traffic is a big asset to the state, which, om account of its beautiful climate and scenery, has been called the Riviera of Australia. After being sun-baked on the mainland large numbers of people go to the island to recuperate. This traffic is a material source of revenue to the island. Whereas other states treat their tourist trade as a side line, it- is one of the most important businesses in which the people of Tasmania embark. As I was saying, the British boats brought to Tasmania the very best class of tourists we could get. They brought from the mainland the people who could afford to travel in luxury, people who, probably, took their motor cars with them, and spent a great deal of money on the island. It is quite possible that they enjoyed the privilege and pleasure of a trip on an ocean liner, which theycould not get in any other way. It is possible thatmany of them could not afford the time, or the expenses involved in a trip to Colombo, and, therefore, took the alternative of a round trip from Sydney, via Melbourne, to Hobart. If this facility had not been afforded them they would not have visited Tasmania and spent large sums of money there. The coming into force of the Navigation Act deprived them of this facility, and the money which was badly wantedin Tasmania, and for which the state gives a good return, was no longer spent (there. The people of the island feel the position very much. They are awaiting the fate of  Senator Ogden's  motion with considerable anxiety. This afternoon I received the following telegram from the Hobart Marine Board: - 
This afternoon a special meeting resolved thatthe wardens of the Marine Board of Hobartarefullyinsympathywiththemotion of SenatorOgden, which is now on the notice paper of the Senate, and they wish to impress on the Federal Parliament that Tasmania is entitled to somerelief from these irksome and irritating restrictions set on thetradeof Australia. 
The wardensof the Hobart Marine Board have discussed the Navigation Act over and over again, and they have made repeatedrepresentations for relief. They do notgo to the extentof asking that  Senator Ogden's  motion be . agreed to in its present form, but they wantsome form of relief. If the Senate does not see fit to agree to the motion in its entirety I ask it, at . any rate, to adopt the second recommendation of the royal commission and impose a duty - not a prohibitive tariff - on overseas vessels choosing to trade between the mainland and Tasmania. If this were done people . could take advantage of the splendid opportunities these vessels afford to pass backwards and forwards between the mainland states 'and Tasmania. Those who live in Hobart, as I have done, and wishto travel to the mainland, must regret the fact that beautifulocean liners, in which they could travel in comfort, must leave with halftheir berths empty. If one seeks to book a passage to Melbourne on. a British vessel, one is told that the Navigation Act prevents it. I did not realize the severity of the provisions of the Navigation Act until I sought to book a berth on one of these vessels. 
Yes, and I havetravelledon them, and will do so again, if I ever get the chance, because the very best means of travelling are not too good for the people of an island state. In any case, if it is goodenough for a Britisher to travel on these boats from England to Australia, surely it is good enough for a person of British descent to travel on them between Tasmania and the mainland. 
I would rather travel on boats mannedby white labour, but I do not think that question arises. 
SenatorJ.B. HAYES. - That is so. The object of the Navigation Act was to encourage the Australian mercantile marine, but it has been proved over and over again that the tonnage of the Australian mercantile marine is today less by thousands and thousands of tons than it was before theact was proclaimed. 'The other dayi heard a gentleman in Hobart, who has looked up the statistics, declare that not one additional new passenger . ship has been put on the Australian coastaltrade since the act has been in force. I cannot remember any new vessel having been put on the trade since the act was put intoforce. There is certainly no 'ship trading to Tasmania which has been put on . since then. If the people engaged on the Australian coastal service do not increasetheir fleets, it is only a matter of time when we shall have no means ofcommunication. Those which exist between the mainland and Tasmania to-day are worse than those we had 30 years ago. The Commonwealth is going ahead. Thereare new railways, older lines have been and are being improved, and methods of transport . are better, so that one would expect the means of transit between the mainland and Tasmania also to go ahead. They have, however, gone back. I do not think that the 'passenger accommodation afforded by the 'Commonwealth Government Line of Steamerscompares with that on the British boats, but I remember distinctly that there were 128  passengers booked for Melbourne by the  Largs Bay  about two years ago. This fact shows that the passengers are available ifthe facilities are offered. In the season, Tasmania ships about1,000,000 cases of apples to Europe by overseas vessels.Whetherthey are manned  by  coloured labour or by white crews, the vessels have to go to Tasmania to pick upthese apples, and it seems absurdthat people cannot travel by them. Besides the passenger traffic, the goods traffic is affected by the operation of the Navigation Act. In an endeavour to get some meed of justice,  Senator Ogden  has restricted hismotion to the passenger traffic, but Tasmania depends upon its exports more than does any other . state. Ihope, therefore, that the Senate will try to do the islandsome justice by seeing that its services are improved. I feel confident that if it had been known 25 years ago thatas a result of joining the federation, the means of transport which Tasmania had previously enjoyed would be so seriously interfered with, the vote in favour of federation would have been different. I am a. Federalist and believe that federation is in the interests of the whole of the states, but it should not mean that the weakest state . must go to the wall. That is what is happening in the caseof Tasmania.. The Federal Parliament has the power to grant Tasmania justice in this matter, and I earnestlytrust that that state will be given the assistance towhich it is justly entitled.. 
 I have waited many months for the 'opportunity to say a few words on this motion. In the first place I should like to explain may own attitude towards the state of Tasmania. I have been amember of the Senate for many years, and speaking for myself, and I think, I can say for every honorable senator, no just claim from Tasmania has ever fallen upon deaf ears in this chamber. "Whenever a fair claim has been submitted to the Senate, the representatives of the larger states have always willingly and generously gone to the assistance of the smaller states, and I have no doubt that the representatives of the several states will act similarly on this occasion.  Senator J.  B. Hayes said that four of the seven members of the Royal Commission on Navigation reported in favour of certain relief beingafforded Tasmania, but I have been crediblyinformed that only two of the seven members who comprise . the commission favoured the relief suggested by  Senator Ogden. 
It needs explanation, because if only two out of seven members who inquired into the whole matter, and who had all the evidence before them were prepared to give relief in this way, the mover of the motion is asking the Senate to do something which it should not do. I believe the position to be as I have stated, because the source from which Iobtained my information is most reliable. 
I am quoting from an official record. 
We are not now debating a motion in which it is asked that, relief shall be given to Tasmania in"some form." If that were the request, it would receive, I think, the unanimous support of the Senate. But we are asked to give relief to Tasmania ina way that will injure the whole system and principle of Australian legislation; we are asked to afford relief to Tasmania in a way which will affectthe industrial conditions prevailing throughout the Commonwealth. In fact we are asked to go back on our White Australia policy, and to say that we will sacrifice that principle., which after years of consideration was adopted. This principle is embodied in the Navigation Act in order to make conditions of employment on Australian ships, better than they are on vessels operating in other parts of the world, I and the party with which I am associated will always remain true friends to Tasmania, but we will not be the friends of the monopolistic interests in Tasmania, which, when Tasmania had its own vessels running, refused to ship its goods by them. There is a great deal in being the generous friends of the smaller states, but, we do' not wish to extend the open hand to the Inchcape combine, and thus enable the vessels manned by black labour under its control to compete with those on the Australian coast. 
-They come into Sydney Harbour under the same conditions that apply to their going to Hobart. If the honorable senator is not aware of it he should be. 
The honorable senator will live to see the day when the conditions on . all vessels using the port of Sydney will be as good,, and the pay as high, as they are on Australian ships. The day when vessels manned by black labour and controlled by combines will be allowed to compete with Australian vessels manned by white labour has gone. 
Seuator  Ogden. -  Is the honorable senator a new champion of the local shipping companies ? 
I am in favour of better conditions being provided for the people who work on ships. I earnestly believe that the Government must yet intervene, and insist that the. conditions of those who work on board ship are at least tolerable. They are not so to-day. If  Senator Ogden  with his black labour motion - it cannot be regarded as anything else-- 
If  Senator Ogden's  motion is carried it will have the effect of increasing the trade of vessels manned by coloured labour. That is what it means. 
It is not. The effect of its adoption would be to lower the wages and the conditions under which Australian seamen are employed. Is that; what the honorable senator is anxious to do? I have seen a great many claims for consideration for Tasmania, all of which have been treated in a most generous manner. Paragraph  a  of section 288 of the Navigation Act reads - 
That the seamen employed on the ship shall be paid wages in accordance with this part of this act; 
Does  Senator Ogden  wish that to be repealed? 
The motion submitted by the honorable senator' would mean its repeal. It reads - 
That, in the opinion of the Senate, the Navigation Act should be amended so as to exclude Tasmania from the operations of the sections of the act relating to coastal passengers, thus providing for freedom of intercourse by any ships between Tasmania and mainland ports. . . . 
Does not that relate to coastal passengers ? As the honorable senator does not reply, I must infer that he is not fully aware of the action he is taking. 
The honorable senator is working in the interests of those whose interests are entirely opposed to Labour. 
I realize that. 
Order ! There are too many interjections, and I ask honorable senators to allow  Senator Gardiner  to proceed without further interruption. 
No ship shall engage in the coasting trade unless licensed to do so. Penalty (on master, owner, or agent) : Five hundred pounds. 
Licences to ships to engage in the coasting trade shall be for such period, not exceeding three years, as is prescribed, and may be granted as prescribed. 
Every licence shall be issued subject  to  compliance on the part of the ship, her master, owner, and agent, during such time  as  she  is  engaged  in  the coasting trade. 
Does  Senator Ogden  wish that provision to be repealed? I do not know whether  Senator Ogden  is fully aware of the effect of his motion, which I have already quoted. The licences to trade deal with the whole conditions under which goods and passengers are carried,  and if the conditions are satisfactory, and the wages sufficiently high, licences will he granted. An exemption clause is also provided which  Senator J.  B. Hayes said was of no use. 
Some of the most discreditable incidents in connexion with the proceedings of this chamber may be laid at the door of those who are most deeply interested in trade. ' We do not moves about here year in and year out with . our eyes closed to all that ia going' on. I knew when I saw  Senator Ogden's  name on the noticepaper that the same subtle influence was at work. Of course, this is an old story. It has been told before, and I have no doubt it will be re-told in the future, but I can assure  Senator Ogden  that the combines will not move, to defeat, him. Tie is too serviceable; too willing to do their work; too ready to fight against the interests of labour and in the.- interests of the trusts and combines. 
I remind the honorable senator that he must not be led away by interjections, and allow" the debate to develop into a free trade-protection argument. 
The motion refers to passengers only, and not to freights. 
I am prepared to take the consequences. The honorable senator need not trouble about that. Let him look after his own seat, and I will look after mine. 
 I am quite prepared, on a straightout fight, to accept the challenge issued by the honorable senator. 
 I doubt that. 
 There is one thing about this discussion for which we should be truly thankful, and that is that once more wo have heard the dulcet tones of  Senator Gardiner,  which we have missed for quite a long while. We have also missed the honorable senator's prophecies. The honorable senator should have been a Presbyterian divine of the dourest school, one of those who for the least and most trivial cause threatens his congregation with hellfire of the most flaming description. Also it is a long while since any of us have been accused, even when we are holding moderate opinions, of being actuated by motives of the worst possible description. I have missed that intimidation «which the honorable senator hurls at any one who dares to disagree with him. I cannot congratulate him on ono phase of this matter, and that is, that although he tells us he has pondered . over this motion for six months, he has made statements showing that he does not know what it means. So far as I am concerned, I, in common, I think, with any representative of a smaller state, shall support the - motion. Without being accused of being in the service of the Inchcape combine, or any other body of nefarious persons such as  Senator Gardiner  is in the habib of referring to, I hope 1 may be permitted to express the opinion, as I have before in this chamber, that the Navigation Act,- part of which we are at the moment discussing, is now and has been from the outset a legislative misfit. I think it was brought into being principally through the lack of a sense of proportion on the part of Australia. Furthermore, it has signally failed in most of the objects it was put on the statute-book to achieve. Those who brought it into force professed to be actuated by a fear of monopolies. It has created many move monopolies than it has destroyed. In the present somewhat agitated state of public opinion I do not wish to refer to several of those monopolies, but let me say that it has made possible on the Australian coast monopolies which would be absolutely and entirely impossible without it. If it has raised the status of seamen, and I hope it has done so, how is it that among the class of seamen which man, say, the Commonwealth Line, and enjoy conditions and pay that were never thought of in any other part of the world before, nearly all the industrial trouble that has taken place is arising? That is a very peculiar thing. The application of the act to Western Australia and the more remote parts of Queensland has had nothing but a strangling influence. The Government is already recognizing this, and is making a concession in regard to Papua. But what applies to Papua applies to a very great extent also to the more remote parts of the Commonwealth. So far as locality is concerned the set has been beneficial only to the terminal ports of Sydney and Melbourne. It is natural perhaps that with the preponderating influence of the votes of New ' South Wales and Victorian representatives in another place the bill should have been carried by it almost unanimously. It is also natural that in this Senate where the interests of the states are .supposed to be represented, the representatives of the smaller states, realizing their duty and their responsibility, should fight such a measure as this to the bitter end. At all events I am sure that it is operating with very great disadvantage to Tasmania, I have, as I have said before, a very great sympathy for that state, aud I am pleased that on this occasion at all events all the Tasmanian senators will be looking at this matter in the same way that I do. I have little more to say except to qualify the remark I made just now, that no one could disagree with  Senator Gardiner  without being saddled with the imputation of very bad motives. The honorable senator has weakened somewhat on that point, because I heard him, in a weak moment perhaps, when his heart was perhaps momentarily touched by the tribulations of Tasmania, admit that  Senator Ogden  probably had good intentions. Later on . the honorable senator may make a personal explanation and withdraw that little concession. Because I have never believed in this Navigation Act for the smaller states, because I can never understand why the class of seamen who have benefited most by the passing of the act. are the most discontented, because I recognize that the Navigation Act has created more monopolies than it has ever frustrated, and most of all, because I am the representative of a smaller state - the motion does not affect my state, but still it is a good indication of the way things are going - for all these reasons I feel it my duty to support the motion by  -Senator Ogden. 
I oppose the motion moved by  Senator Ogden.  It may be, as my respected leader,  Senator Gardiner,  has said, simply a pious resolution, inasmuch as those who are responsible for bringing it forward know perfectly well that, even if it be carried, it will have no effect, unless a bill to amend the Navigation Act is passed through both Houses. But I regard it as dangerous. It is proposing something which is unconstitutional. When the Navigation Bill was originally introduced a proposal was made that Western Australia should be exempted from the coasting provisions, but a definite statement was made by one who had some constitutional knowledge that section 99 of the Constitution would prevent it from being done. 
Quite so. Even if an amending bill were passed by both Houses it would be unconstitutional if the exemption applied to one state only. 
Yes, but later on it supported the proposal that the provisions of the act should be uniform, and wholly federal in their operation. But while I am aware that even if this motion be carried it will render no relief to Tasmania in the direction sought by  Senator Ogden,  I recognise the danger behind it, because it would be an encouragement to the Government to introduce a bill to give the relief for which the motion .asks. If some person with a natural opposition to legislation of this description had submitted this motion I could readily understand it; but for it to be moved by one who was elected to the Senate as a representative of Labour is past my comprehension. I remember the great in terest taken iu the Navigation Bill when it was under consideration. As secretary of a maritime union it was part of my duty to attend Parliament House and consult with certain members of the Labour party who had formed themselves into a committee and were taking more than a passing interest in the bill. I look upon the passing of the measure as one of the things that made possible the betterment of the conditions of the seamen employed on Australian vessels. Just prior to the passing of the bill it was my privilege to be representing the Marine Cooks, Butchers and Bakers in a case before  Mr. Justice  Higgins, and if I remember aright it was the first decision given by him in connexion with the maritime industry of Australia. In the minutes of hia judgment occurred a passage to this effect - 
I have yet to learn that the steamship companies of Australia have a special charter to house their employees on board ship like pigs instead of human beings. 
He was specially requested by the representative of the steamship-owners to delete that passage from the minutes, but he replied - 
I shall do so, and I shall be pleased to forget it, when the day arrives that the steamshipowners of our country can prove to me that they are not housing their employees like pigs. 
 The men engaged in sea-faring were vitally interested in the provisions of the Navigation Bill, and the Labour movement throughout Australia also took a great interest in its passage through Parliament. When it was ultimately passed, and became part and parcel of our legislation, we considered that the Parliament had set up a beacon light of hope to the seafaring men of other countries. I would be profoundly disappointed if this Parliament now endeavoured in any way to interfere with the protection it has bestowed upon our seafaring men. Some' time ago,  Senator Lynch  submitted a motion to the Senate, the effect of which, if carried, would have been to interfere with the operation of the Navigation Act in order to confer some particular benefit upon the state of Western Australia., which the honorable senator represents in this chamber. Recently, the Government submitted an amending Navigation Bill, under which it obtained power to suspend the coasting provisions of the Navigation Act, and it also passed  an amending immigration bill, under which, authority was obtained to deport men from this country. 
The present proposal, in conjunction with action taken in the past, can only lead one to believe that that monumental piece of legislation known as the Navigation Act is in danger of being seriously interfered with by a certain section of the people. 
Wo have been informed that this motion refers only to vessels carrying passengers around the Australian coast, and that no exemption is sought in the case of cargo. What does the proposal mean? Those controling Australian shipping have to comply with Australian conditions. In other words, while we pay our able-bodied seamen or firemen from £17 to £18 per month, vessels manned by coolie labour, or sweated British labour, are paying considerably loss. Lf this alteration is allowed, our Australian seamen will again be working under the conditions which existed when they had neither a body to be kicked nor a soul to be damned. If effect is given to the motion, vessels manned by coloured labour will bo able to pick up passengers on the Australian coast, and carry them to any port in Tasmania, and thus seriously interfere with the trade of the ships controlled by companies complying with the conditions provided in the Navigation Act. Notwithstanding this, we are informed that there is nothing of vital importance in the proposal. I can support the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Gardiner)  that the majority of the people of Tasmania are not in favour of a condition of affairs such as is sought by the mover of the motion. An effort was also made on one occasion to prevent the awards of the Arbitration Court being applicable to Tasmania, as the effect would be, it was said, to hamper industry in that state. If it is reasonable to exempt overseas ships trading with Tasmania from the provisions of the Navigation Act, it is equally reasonable to exempt the industries in that state from complying with the awards of the Federal Arbitration Court. 
The majority of the people in Tasmania and Western Australia do not desire such exemptions. 
Yes, but there are tens of thousands of men and women throughout Australia whose conditions and wages are controlled by a federal law. The Navigation Act is purely federal in its scope, and I am not in favour of granting exemption to any particular state. 
The Government has authority to grant licences. 
This motion deals exclusively with Tasmania, and even if it were carried, and the Government desired to introduce an amending Navigation Bill to give effect in the direction the mover desires, such legislation would be unconstitutional as it would involve a differentiation as between states. I can only repeat that the motion submitted by  Senator Lynch  some time ago, the action of the Government in suspending the coasting provisions of the Navigation Act, and this motion now before the Senate indicate that a determined effort is being made by some person or persons to destroy the effect of the Navigation Act which was placed upon the statutebook in the interests of Australian seamen. I trust that in the interest of those who go down to the sea in ships this Parliament will not permit the act to be amended in the direction desired. 
I support the motion submitted by  Senator Ogden.  Honorable senators of the Opposition seem to forget the disadvantages under which Tasmania is labouring. According to those honorable senators, who are opposing the motion, Tasmania has a wonderful tourist traffic every year, numerous boats, working under Australian conditions, are bringing pasengers  to Tasmania, and in .every way our interests are being conserved by the shipping ooni.pan.ifiB employing .Australian seamen. That is a statement to which I give a flat denial. During four of the last five tourist seasons the traffic has .been utterly ruined owing to seamen on Australian boats refusing to work. As the result of such strikes Tasmania has .been left in a state of isolation. If it could be shown that a sufficient number of Australian boats would regularly visit Tasmania, and that there was a reasonable prospect of the tourist traffic being carried on uninterruptedly, there would be no need for a motion such as  we  are now discussing. But since the tourist traffic, which is in a sense the lifeblood of Tasmania, is being severely interfered with, and at times has been practically ruined, are we not to seek redress? We are not asking that a single additional vessel shall be permitted to trade to Tasmania. Many at present going to that state from the mainland have ample unoccupied passenger accommodation. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Gardiner)  said that oversea vessels would not visit Tasmania for the sake of carrying 20 or 30 passengers. That is quite correct. We would not expect them to do so. But boats come from Sydney two or three times a week during the apple season with practically the whole of their passenger accommodation unoccupied. Prior to 1914, 25 to 30 overseas vessels visited Tasmania each year to ship apples, and these ships carried in 1914' no less than 855 passengers to Tasmania in addition to 4,240 in transit to other ports. The whole of that  traffic has now been lost to Tasmania. When we consider that at a low estimate these passengers, would spend from £30 to £40 each during their stay in that state, we can see the immense loss which has resulted, not only to the trading community, but also to the Tasmanian worker, who also benefits in consequence of the increased amount of money circulated. As it has been stated that the representatives of Labour are unanimously opposed to any amendment of the Navigation Act in the direction indicated, I quote the Premier of Tasmania, who is a good Labour man, and who is reported in the  Mercury  of the 25 th August of this year -as having said - 
In the special circumstances -which surround Tasmania's .case I agree that overseas steamers calling at Hobart should be permitted to carry interstate passengers. 
That is .a statement made by the Leader of the Labour party in Tasmania, who is respected by all sections, and yet we are told that the Labour supporters in Tasmania are opposed to any amendment of the Navigation Act. It is useless to say that the motion if carried would involve the employment of black la*bour on the Australian coast. Of all I he oversea steamship lines which send their vessels to Tasmania during the apple season, there is practically only one which employs black labo.ur  en its  ships. All the others employ British seamen, and, consequently, there should be no objection to Tasmania's produce being carried on vessels maimed by whitelabour. lit would appear that honorable senators who are .opposed to the motion would sooner see our produce carried either by foreign .or black labour crews. At the present time only one British shipping company whose vessels call at Tasmanian ports employs black labour. Others employ Norwegians, Germans and seamen of other nationalities. They are not being interfered with, but, unfortunately, British shipping, which could handle our trade, is being harassed. 
And the wages paid by foreign ship-owners are less than half the wages paid by British shipping companies. 
Navigation Act waa proclaimed, they  were  charged as much  as  vessels that used every lighthouse on the Australian coast. Honorable senators may also remember that recently a Norwegian whaling expedition, under the control- of Captain Larsen, desired to make Hobart its head-quarters, but owing to the restrictive provisions of the Navigation Act, itwas forced to use a New Zealand base. Captain Larsen stated definitely that his intention had been  to  make Hobart his base, if he could have, avoided the heavy Commonwealth light dues. Be said he could have got better coal, cheaper and more quickly, in Hobart than elsewhere, also better water and better shelter, and the Marine Board charges would have been much less. He also wished to ship 20 or 30 Tasmanians each year for his crew. 
That, in the opinion of this conference the conditions imposed by the Navigation Act in the case of Tasmania and other isolated portions of the Commonwealth which are wholly dependent on seaborne transit have meant the withdrawal of steamers which previously called nt  these  ports, and which withdrawal has brought about isolation and serious loss, of trade. This conference, therefore, desires a modification of many of the conditions, including particularly the coastal clauses of the act, which have brought about these limitations. 
No one will accuse the delegates who attended the interstate conference referred to of being biased in favour of Tasmania. It was  a  gathering of principal officials of harbour authorities throughout Australia. I suggest, therefore, that the resolution just quoted should carry weight with honorable senators.  Senator J.  B. Hayes has already read the resolution of the Hobart Marine Board. It might be urged that the Marine Board is biased in favour of its own port. If to be biased means a desire to improve the conditions and facillitate trade, then the Hobart Marine Board is biased, and I, also, am biased. There is.no reason why the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Gardiner)  ' should have displayed so much heat in the, debate to-night, and why he should have suggested that Tasmania was not entitled to consideration in regard to this act. I have already pointed out that only one British shipping company trading with Tasmania employs black labour. All the other vessels have British crews. If honorable senators who are opposing  the  motion prefer that the trade should go to foreign seamen or to ships employing black labour crews, then the responsibility must be theirs, not ours. I have' already emphasized that the Premier of the Labour Government in Tasmania, speaking not only on behalf of Labour, but in the interests of the state generally, has urged that some relief should be given to Tasmania. Evidence given before members of the Navigation Commission indicated clearly that: this need is urgent. Unfortunately, the commission did not furnish a unanimous recommenda- tion but four of its seven members expressed the' belief that some relief should be given. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Duncan)  adjourned. 
 In view of the slight progress that has been made with business since the dinner adjournment, and the manner in which the motion standing in my name on the notice-paper has been shut out. I should like to know, whether the Government will afford me an early opportunity to place the matter before the Senate ? The importance of the motion is equalled only by the urgency of the situation. Therefore I request the Government to take into consideration the fairness of allowing me to place the matterbefore the Senate at the earliest date consistent with the transaction of Government business. 
The Government is not altogether tie final arbiter in the matter, but so far as we are able we shall endeavour to give the honorable senator an early opportunity to move his motion, if the state of public business permits us to do so. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 10.5 p.m. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,  upon notice - 
What is the present basic wage in Adelaide, based upon the harvester standard, plus the 6d. added by the Commonwealth Court? 
Is it the policy of the Government to pay for all work done in Adelaide at least such basic rate, whether or not the men concerned are governed by an award of the Commonwealth Court? 
Is itnot a fact that men employed in the laying of underground telephone wires have a lower basic rate? 
Does the Minister know whether  the rate  of 13s.8d. per day paid on such work is 7d. per day below the declared living wage as decided by the South Australian Board of Industry? 
Is it the policy of the Government that its employees in any State should be on a wage below the State wage standard? 
If not, will the Government institute immediate inquiries, and, if found that the men are paid rates below such standard, will their wages be brought up to such standard. 
The PostmasterGeneral has supplied the following answers to the honorable senator's questions :  - 
14s.5d. per day as from 13th August, 1925. 
Yes. 
No. 
The new basic wage of 14s. 5d. is being paid as from 13th August, 1925. 
No. 
See answer to No. 4. 
I move - 
That the preamble, agreement, and schedules embodying the tariff agreement with Canada, as follows, be adopted: - 
That whereas in pursuance of the provisions of paragraph (a) of sub-section (31 of section 9 of the Customs Tariff 1921- 1924, the Minister of State for Trade and Customs has referred to the Tariff Board the question whether, having regard to the reciprocal benefits which have been or will be granted to Australia by the Dominion of Canada, it is desirable, in the interests of the Commonwealth, that the British Preferential Tariff in the Customs Tariff 1021-1924 or the Intermediate Tariff in the Customs Tariff 1921-1924 (hereinafter respectively referred to as " the British preferential tariff " and " the intermediate tariff") should apply to the Dominion of Canada, and, if so, the extent to which it should so apply : 
And whereas the Tariff Board has reported that it is desirable, in the interests of the Commonwealth, that the British preferential tariff and the intermediate tariff should apply to the Dominion of Canada to the extent specified in this resolution : 
Now therefore this Senate agrees - 
) That the application to the Dominion of Canada of the British preferential tariff and the intermediate tariff in the Customs Tariff 1021-1024, or in that tariff as subsequently amended, is, to the extent specified in this resolution, desirable in the interests of the Commonwealth ; 
That the British preferential tariff and the intermediate tariff respectively shall apply to the Dominion of Canada to the extent that, in lieu of the duties of Customs imposed by the Customs Tariff1921-1924, or by that tariff as subsequently amended ongoods the produce or manufacture of the Dominion of Canada, imported direct from that Dominion, there shall be imposed, on and after a time and date to be proclaimed, duties of Customs, as hereinafter set out, on the undermentioned goods the produce or manufacture of the Dominion of Canada, imported direct from the said Dominion, namely:  - 
On goods described in the First Schedule to this resolution the rates of duty shall be the rates of duty for the time being applicable to goods to which the British preferential tariff in the Customs Tariff 1921-1924, or in that tariff as subsequently amended applies; and 
) On the goods described in the 
Second Schedule to this resolution the rates of dutyshall be the  rates  of duty for the time being applicable to goods to which the intermediate tariff in the Customs Tariff 1921-1924, or in that tariff as subsequently amended applies: 

<graphic href="111332192508283_1_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="111332192508283_1_1.jpg"></graphic>

I am very pleased that we are at last reaching finality in this matter.. Last year I had the privilege of visiting Canada on behalf of the Commonwealth, and after many interviews with members 
Of the Dominion Government I did not feel at all satisfied that we were likely to come to any agreement which would bring about a  reciprocal  arrangement between the Commonwealth and Canada. However, wiser counsels prevailed, and I believe that now an agreement has been reached which will prove of advantage to both Canada and Australia. 
Does the Minister really believe that? 
The- advantage lie* with Canada. 
That was merely a joke. 
That would not be difficult. 
Is the Minister in a position to give particulars of the goods specified under  a  and  b ? 
SenatorGreene. - What opportunities have the Australian producers against the Californian combine? 
And that state of affairs is likely to continue. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
This is a simple machinery measure to govern the conditions under which proof spirit is handled. Section 40 of the Distillation Act reads - 
No entry authorizing the- removal of spirits shall be passed in respect of spirits of a lower strength than 25 per centum underproof, nor in respect of a smaller quantity than 10 gallons. 
When the principal act was passed, all the states had not passed legislation bearing on this particular subject, and although food and drugs acts have now been passed by the state governments they are not uniform. I understand it is desired to bring our provisions as to the supervision and strength of spirits into line with the pure food laws of the states. That being so, I see no reason why the passage of the bill should be delayed. 
I always take advantage of opportunities such as this to place upon record my strongest possible condemnation of the actions of those who at present are controlling the beer and spirit trade in the Commonwealth. Their action in systematically and continuously reducing the strength ,of beer and spirits should engage the attention of all those who consume these beverages. The beer once brewed by most of the breweries was an excellent product. 
There is no reference in the bill to brewing. The honorable senator will be quite in order in referring to the distillation of spirit. 
This is a measure which has a bearing on the drink traffic. 
Only on one phase of it. 
I do not doubt its importance, but I cannot admit its relevance to the question before the chair. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without amendment or debate. 
Report adopted. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This is a further instalment of legislation to widen the scope and influence of the Commonwealth Bank. Honorable senators will recall that last year the Government passed a bill to make the bank essentially a national institution and to convert it into a bank of issue, discount, reserve, and exchange. Criticism of that : measure by financial authorities, not only in Australia, but also in other countries, showed that the proposal was generally commended as an important step forward in the history of the bank. It is now proposed to further extend its usefulness to the community by establishing a rural credits department to assist the organized producers in the Commonwealth to control their produce until the time of its sale and distribution.. One of the greatest disabilities suffered by our producers hitherto has been the absence of this assistance. As a consequence, a large number of profit- takers have been permitted to interpose between the producer and the consumer and to levy toll upon both without conferring any material benefit on the community. The bill proposes to get over this difficulty. Under it consumers may, if they wish, build up a reservoir of the necessaries of life, and regulate their distribution at an even volume of pressure throughout the year, thus avoiding high prices on the one hand, and depression of values on the other. Another important feature of the bill is that the Government will not operate the machinery. It will be a matter entirely between the bank and its organized customers.. The time has arrived when the financing of our primary producers in respect of their wool, grain,. butter, cheese, fresh preserved or dried fruits, hops, cotton, sugar, and other products should be- placed on a definite basis. In this way wa may hope to avoid those frequent appeals to state and Commonwealth governments for assistance to tide producers over periods of stress. The important part which primary production plays in the economic life of the community is shown by figures which disclose that last year primary production amounted to nearly three-quarters of the total production of Australia, namely, £270,670,000, out of a total value of £382,208,000. In other words, primary products constituted 96 per cent. of the exports from Australia. The establishment of a rural credits department will make for the orderly marketing of Australian primary production, as is done in other countries which are Australia's keenest competitors in the markets of the world. Failure to provide such assistance will seriously handicap our producers in. their competition with those countries. Last year Parliament passed certain measures introduced by the Government for the more orderly marketing of our primary products. I may be permitted' to give the list. There was the Dairy Produce Export Control Act ; the Expert Guarantee Act, which provides for advances being made by the Commonwealth Bank up to 80 per cent. of the market value of butter and cheese under the control of the Dairy Produce Export Control Board; the Dried Fruits Export Control Act, and the Dried Fruits Advances Act. To ensure the permanent value of this legislation, and to extend its benefits to all primary industries, some changes are needed in our financial system to support the work which has been done. The need for the orderly regulation and marketing of our primary products should be frankly recognized, and every effort should be made to provide the necessary financial machinery. Existing banking facilities must be adjusted, if necessary, with that end in view. The Government does not propose to interfere with their legitimate work. On the other hand it will endeavour to give encouragement and bring about coordination, thus making it possible at all times for co-operative marketing associations to obtain funds adequate for their operation in the direction of orderly marketing; by providing: the necessary machinery to make financial assistance applicable to the essential requirements of agriculture. Under our existing lack of system, itisfrequently found that the productionof abumper croprenders its financing extremely difficult. Take ourexperience last year. There wasan exceedingly good wool clip and an expectation of big prices being realized; but that very fact tended to generate in thecommunity a condition offear and a lack of confidence, which was overcome eventually only by the prompt action of the directors of the Commonwealth Bank in making advances to the associated banks to enable them to finance the industry. Honorable senators will remember that numerous questions were asked in this chamber last year regarding the methods that were to be adopted to meet the situation that had arisen. They were prompted by the fear which existed outside that the ordinary financial institutions would not be able to provide meanswhereby advantage could be taken ofthe naturalblessings thathad been conferred upon the Commonwealth. 
SenatorPEARCE.- Upon that question there is a difference of opinion. Every one must agree, however, that the importance of agriculture and other primary industries entitles them to financial facilitiesas great as those that are employed in connexion with any other industry orcalling. That primary production is not in such a positionat the present time is proved by the creation, from time to time, of pools for the marketing of different products, so that a certain degree of orderly and regular marketing will be brought about. Invariably, those poolshave found it necessary toapproach the Government for a guaranteebefore the financial institutions wouldundertake ihe responsibility of making available the necessary finance. By anorganized systemof production and finance, Denmark can supply her English customers throughoutthe year. Thatfact, in conjunction with a uniform standard of quality, makes it easierand cheaper for the merchant to handle Danish butter than butter from any other country. The result is seen in the difference between the price of Australian andDanish butter on theEnglish market. Last year, the Government acted on this definiteprinciple in itsexportcontrol legislation,whichplacedthecontrol of the exportable surplus inthe hands of the industry itself, ifit thought fit to organize. To enable this principletobe applied generallyto industry, it is necessary to make available machinery by which organized industry can automaticallysecure the necessary finance on a commercial basis. The Government believes that this can be done by an examination of the claims of the various industries on theirmerits, by an Imperial commercial institution thatwill not beguided by any political consideration. Ithas to be rememberedthat the general credit of the Commonwealth is behind the Commonwealth Bank, and will bebehind theoperations oftherural credits department, as it is behind that of every other department of theCommonwealthBank. Theoperation of this system is certain to stimulate thegrowth of co-operationamongst producers. The widely-spread benefitstothe community ofsuch co-operationhavealready been shown. The machinery provided in the bill, together with export control machinery similar to that provided last year in connexion with butter anddried fruits, will permit the producer to obtain all the advantages of a compulsory pool in relation to his exportable surplus, whilst at the sametime retaining complete control in his own hands. I shouldlike here to makea further reference toanindustry that I have already mentioned incidentally,and that I hopewill becomea great industry in Australia. It isthe cotton industry. That industryhasbeen thesubject of considerablecontroversy . It is being operated by a proprietary companyunder an agreement and in combinationwith the Stateauthorities. Wheneverdifferentinterests undertaketo dealwithone industry therearebound to bedivergencies of opinion. In this particular industry the State took certain action which it believed would be beneficial. The company which was concerned with the ginning of the cotton, and wnich assisted to financethe industry, took other action ; and an altogether different view was takenby the growers themselves. There was a great deal of controversyregarding tihe questionof ratoon cotton, the grading of cotton.,the amount of finance that was made available, and the way inwhichadvances. were forthcoming. Under this rural credit system, if the growers organize themselves on a sound financial basis they can secure financial backing to enable them to market their produce in their own way. But if a co-operative concern continues to market an inferior cotton it will have to take the responsibility of its action, and the necessities of the case will compel it to conform to the demands of the cotton markets of the world. That can be brought about much more rapidly if growers act in their own interests than if they are subjected to what they regard as foolish interference by any government. It will surely be better for the growers themselves to take action than to have it done by a government, action by which is generally misunderstood, often misinterpreted, and sometimes wrong. Instances such as that to which I have referred could be multiplied in respect of fruit and, indeed, all other produce. By the establishment of a rural credits department the Government hopes to give the producers an opportunity to cooperate and to provide the necessary financial assistance to enable them to do their own marketing. They will thus learn the lessons that must be learned in connexion with the marketing of their produce. Necessity is the mother of invention, but it is also a stern teacher. When these co-operative associations have to accept full responsibility for the marketing of their produce they will take good care that only the best methods are adopted. This will be to them a far more effective spur than any regulation or government inspection could provide. So it is hoped that whilst this proposal will confer a great benefit upon the producers it will also bring home to them in the most effective and direct way the necessity to properly market their produce. The bill provides - 
That there shall be a Rural Credits Department of the Commonwealth Bank. 
That the Treasurer may lend funds to the Rural Credits Department, providing that the total of the sums so lent, and not repaid, shall not, at any time, exceed £3,000,000. 
That 25 per centum of the net annual profits of the Note-issue Department shall be paid into the Rural Credits Department until the amount so paid reaches a total of £2,000,000. 
That for these purposes the bank may issue debentures. 
That the amount of debentures issued, and not repaid, shall not, at any time, exceed - (a) the amount advanced ou primary produce by the Rural Credits Department, and still outstanding as at the date of the issue of the debentures; or  (b)  four times the amount of the aggregate of - (i) the sums lent by the Treasurer to the Rural Credits Department, and not repaid; (ii) moneys paid to the Rural Credits Department out of the net profits of the Note-issue Department ; and (iii) moneys at credit of the Rural Credits Department Reserve Fund, whichever is the greater. 
That the bank may make advances to the Rural Credits Department, upon the security of primary produce placed under the legal control of the bank, to (a) the bank or other banks; (b) cooperative associations formed under the law of the Commonwealth, a State, or a territory under the authority of the Commonwealth; and (c) such corporations or unincorporate bodies, formed under the law of the Commonwealth, a State, or a territory. It is also provided that no advance under this part shall be made for a period of more than one year, and that, in lieu of making advances in accordance with the provisions of this part, the Rural Credits Department may discount bills secured upon produce placed under the legal control of the bank. The assets of the Rural Credits Department shall be available, firstly, for meeting the liabilities of the department, other than loans made to it by the Treasurer under this part, and interest thereon; and, secondly, for repaying those loans and paying that interest. The net profits of the Rural Credits Department shall be dealt with as follows: -  (a)  One-half shall be placed to the credit of a fund to be called the " Rural Credits Department Reserve Fund," and (b) one-half shall be placed to the credit of the Rural Credits Development Fund, to be used, in such manner as the board directs, for the promotion of primary production. 
If the act is operated with ordinary discretion I do not think that there should be any serious  losses. I certainly think that the time has arrived when we should endeavour to remove these operations from the region of political action. I can think of no greater danger in our national life than that industries should be in a position to come to a government and, by political pressure, exerted perhaps at times of crises, extort from the government financial considerations that are denied to other industries. I do not say that that has been 'done, hut, at the same time, there is always the danger of it whilst the government acts as a sort of fairy godmother in assisting industry from the funds of the taxpayers. 
 I think that it will, because there will not be the same justification for government or parliament -to invade this area of finance. At any rate, that is the hope and the object of the Government in introducing the bill, which I commend to the consideration of honorable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Needham)  adjourned. 
As a commercial man I should like to make a few remarks on the budget-papers. Possibly I may not submit my views in such an elaborate way as some honorable senators, but I trust that I shall make my meaning clear. The Treasurer deserves to be congratulated on having produced such a satisfactory statement of last year's transactions. The revenue exceeded expectations, principally, of course, on account of the high Customs receipts. Some criticism has been offered on that very account, but men who move in commercial circles know of the many difficulties that surround the appraisement of Customs revenue. It will be within the knowledge of honorable senators that there was an unusual inflation of the Customs revenue during 
July. Imports, generally, were said to be responsible for it, but I venture to say that it was caused principally by the anticipation of an increase in the duty on spirits. Happenings like that, which give the Customs revenue an unexpected fillip, make it very difficult for the Treasurer accurately to estimate the income. I am glad to notice that relief is proposed in indirect taxation to the extent of £750,000. The way in which that is to be done will, no doubt, be disclosed to us later. 
Speaking as a member of the general public, it seems to me that three aspects of the budget will be particularly appreciated. The first is the proposed reduction in income taxation by 12£ per cent. That is highly desirable. I wish that the Queensland Government would follow the example of this Government in that respect. My private income last year was taxed three times as heavily by the Queensland Government as by the Commonwealth Government. I regret, however, that the Treasurer could not see his way clear to propose a reduction in taxation on companies. Our present companies tax is very high, and unsatisfactory. I know of one company which is paying 2s. 3d. in the £1 to the Federal Government and 3s. in the  £1  to the state Government. A tax of 5s. 3d. in the  £1  is altogether too heavy on this struggling company. Its profits are not sufficient, in these circumstances, to give the shareholders any return on their investment. The employees get a big cut out of the gross returns, the state and Federal Governments get a little more than 25 per cent., and the shareholders get nothing. 
Yes ; a coalmining company. I have several times advocated in this chamber that our taxation forms should be simplified, but we still have the objectionable boomerang curve, which prevents any one but a taxation expert from checking the rate of his tax. We are, of course, able to check the extensions, but I submit that it ought to be within the province of any ordinary business man to check the rate of his tax. 
That is so. It requires theapplication of higher mathematics. Iam an accountant, but I am not able to follow the mathematical methods used. 
Wemust all agree that the increase in the old-age and invalid pensions is at matter for congratulation.. Many of us are reaching: the old-age limit. We do not know when the pension may become acceptable to us; My personal opinion is that we should encouragepeople to prepare for their own old age. If. the National. Insurance Commission is able to. present a proposal which will be acceptable to Parliament by which this. may be done, it will be an excellent thing. We ought to do our best to provide an old-age pension which can in no sense be regarded as a pauper dole; although, of course, if through stress of circumstances; a man is compelled to accept the present old-age pension, he has the satisfaction of knowing that throughout his life he has contributed to the revenue out of which the pension is now being paid. 
SenatorReid.  -  And also to make the young people prepare for their own old age. 
I know that in my young days I had to provide for the aged. 
The next item for congratulation, speaking as a member of the general public, is the proposal to repeal those provisions of the Entertainments Tax Act by which tickets that cost less than 2s. 6d. are taxed. I appreciate this, although it must be borne in mind that a great many people at present make their sole contribution to the revenue through the entertainments tax. It must be clear that there is a. good deal to be said on both sides in connexion with this tax, but, personally, I welcome the relief that the Government's proposal will afford. Entertainment is necessary in all ranks of life, and if the Government can make wholesome entertainment possible for the mass of the peonle at a cheap rate it will do well. 
The reduction in the national debt isvery gratifying. I am afraid it is hardly practicable to provide that the debt shall not be allowed to increase. Our country is growing, of course, and its various public utilities must also grow. That means; the expenditure of more capital. We can hardly expect anything else, therefore; than that the national debt will increase, on account of the expenditure on public works, but Itrust that we shall do our utmost to reduce the old debts incurred for war expenditure, and other unproductive things. 
The proposal to set aside £1,500,000 for defence is highly commendable. I am glad that a permanent scheme to be  worked  out over a number of years has been propounded. I hope later on to have something to say on defence details. The Leader of the Senate has, this morning explained to us the Government's proposals in connexion with the establishment of a rural credits department of the Commonwealth Bank. The scheme ought to. be of great benefit to the man on the land. The proposal to spend a larger amount on post office services will also be welcomed, for it will benefit the whole community. 
As a Central Queenslander I appreciate the remarks made by  Senator Pearce,  this morning on the cotton industry. I am glad that the Government intends to continue a guaranteed price for another season. In the meantime, I understand that it will consider sympathetically the paymentof a bounty on the production of cotton. That seems to  me  to be the preferable way to deal with the matter. It would. remove the industry from Government control to a greater extent than ia the case at present, and would be more beneficial to the individual grower. It is. difficult to determine the method by which the bounty shouldbe paid. A flat rate has been suggested. Against that it may be urged that a grower may produce great quantities of inferior cotton in order to collect as much bounty as possible, whereas the man who is careful to produce good cotton will be at a disadvantage in that respect. This is a matter which the Governments, with the advice of the Queensland Government, may be trusted to settle in the best way. I trust that before next season comes an appropriate bounty scheme will have been provided for by Parliament. 
I notice in the Estimates that it is still proposed to set apart a considerable amount for the purchase of coal. I suppose that it will be expended on Welsh coal for the use of the auxiliary services of the Navy. In passing, I may say that 
I tope the time is approaching -when we shall not need to go outside Australia to get a high-class coal of this nature. I submitted to the Government some little time ago a sample of coal sent to me by a party of tributers working a seam in Central Queensland. It was so satisfactory thatthe Government has expressed a desire that 25 tons of the coal may be tested to see whether the ash is non-clinker ing. The coal was said to be -very similar to Welsh coal. I have high hopes that it will prove to be so. 
The representatives of a large state like Queensland .are naturally . very interested in the Government's road grant proposals. It was anticipated that the grant for the ensuing year would be £1,000,000, but, .as I .said by interjection the other day, the various states were unable to expend the amount of last year's grant -that was allocated to them. In these circumstances it could hardly be expected that the Government would earmark £1,0.00,000 for this year. As a matter of fact, the amount provided for in the Estimates, together with the sums at present unexpended by the states, will total about £1,000,000. It has been suggested that in -places where the bridging of creeks or rivers is necessary in  connexion  with roads that are being constructed by the expenditure of money from this fund, the cost of the bridges should also be chargeable to the grant. We, in Queensland., lean to that view, and we are hoping that the Minister will , make that concession. I 'stress the necessity for making :a portion of  the  grant available for .the re-conditioning of roads which have long 'been national highways, but which have got out of repair. It seems to me to be essential that 'the Commonwealth should exercise a more thorough supervision of .the work that is being done. I have heard .of roads in my state which .have cost between £7,000 and £9,000 a mile. It may be that good work has been done, "but it seems to me that it is costing too much. Seeing that the Commonwealth Government is finding half of the money that is being spent, I think it ought to exercise some supervision. 
A question has been brought under my notice by .peanut growers in Central Queensland. I believe 'that there are great  possibilties  in the cultivation of pea nuts which can be -grown with great advantage in Queensland. Overtures have been made to the Minister for Trade and Customs for the imposition of a protective duty, and I understand that the matter will 'receive consideration by ihe  Tariff Board. Before I approached the  Minister I asked the people concerned what .prospects there were of overtaking  the importation, and I was assured by  them  that within twelve months Australia .could easily produce the whole of its peanut requirements. I trust therefore that the protection asked for will begiven. 
I regret very much that the very valuable report on meteorology, prepared at  great  trouble by the Government Meteorologist, has not been, recommended by the Printing Committee to be printed . In previous' years the reports of the Meteorological Department have "been printed, &gt;but the Printing Committee considers that this year's report is too bulky. No doubt it is bulky, and I think heads of departments would be well advised to condense their reports so that they will not be too costly to print. As I understand it would have cost £100 to print the report of the Meteorological Department, the Printing Committee was probably justified in pausing to consider whether it was worth while spending that amount of money ; but I think it is well worth the expenditure, because the report contains most valuable information to people on the land and those who travel by water. 
Some of the. matter might have been omitted, and 1 propose to ask the Printing Committee to reconsider its decision. 
The Commonwealth Government has been asked to pay a bonus on the production of gold, and as I come from a district where the  Mr Morgan  mine is situated, I am strongly in 'favour of that request. No doubt it is very difficult for :any government to consider the payment of a bounty on a wasting asset such as gold-mining undoubtedly is; but if it can be shown that by the use of most up-to-date machinery, ore residuals and tailings can be brought into commission as quite new factors, and made to produce revenue, I think the 'Government would be justified in paying such a bounty. There is, I am afraid, no use in suggesting that copper-mining should be favoured in the same way, although at the present time it is in a very bad position in Queensland. The  Mr Morgan  Company lost £150,000 last year, and that was only one of three years in which the total losses were £350,000. 
I am pleased to see that special provision is being made to enable the Institute of Science and Industry to make further investigations into means for eradicating the prickly pear. This is a matter of supreme importance to Queensland. I believe the experiments of the Queensland Prickly Pear Board have reached the stage at which there is every prospect of arresting the further progress of the pear, but some quicker and more effective method is necessary. The cochineal insect is de-' struct i ve to the pear,' but is so slow in its operations that I think the pear will beat it in the long run. £b far poisoning has proved to be the only effective means of combating the pest, and I think it is not beyond the bounds of possibility that the Institute of Science and Industry may devise some means of destroying the pear by spreading a poisonous gas over extensive areas. The suggestion that power alcohol should be made from, the pear is worthy of the keenest consideration. There are two schools of opinion on this subject. On the one hand, the Institute of Science and Industry considers that it is commercially out of the question to produce power alcohol from prickly pear ; on . the other hand a medical man in Sydney has declared that it can be done commercially. If there is so much doubt among scientists on the matter, it ought to be thoroughly investigated. I can conceive of nothing that would be of greater benefit to the community than the destruction of the prickly pear combined with the production of power alcohol. 
Talking of power alcohol reminds me of the position of the sugar industry of Queensland. I think every one engaged in that industry should feel grateful for the recent decision of the Government to renew the embargo on the importation of sugar, and so keep the industry stabilized for a further period. The overproduction of sugar is a very serious matter, because the quantity that has to be exported must, be sold at a substantial loss. Of course, that loss is borne by those engaged in the industry. They have not come, cap in hand, to the Government for financial assistance to help them to bear it. Experts differ upon the possibility of producing power alcohol from sugar cane. Some declare that by itself' the cane will not produce alcohol commercially. Another section in the north, led by  Mr. Seymour  Howe, claims on good grounds that it can be done. If it can be demonstrated that power alcohol can be produced advantageously from sugar cane, people can go ahead producing as much cane as possible, to the great advantage of Queensland, and Australia generally. 
In regard to defence, I agree with the Inspector-General of the Forces, that he is very much hampered by lack of funds. It appears to me that he has been asked to make bricks without sufficient straw, but I think he will have to do his best with the funds available. I notice that his. report contains the usual talk about the unification of the railway gauges. The defence authorities must realize that this is a problem which, for financial reasons, must be tackled very gradually. It seems to me that, as well as continuing to remind the legislatures about the necessity for the unification of the railway gauges, they should work out the quickest and best means of transporting troops with the railways as they are to-day, or as they will .be in the near future, at the same time taking into consideration motor and other means of transport. There is plenty of scope- for their energies in this direction. In the meantime, they can still keep on impressing on the legislatures the need for that unification which will be brought about when sufficient funds are available. 
I am aware that the vote for military camps is not what it ought to be. I am afraid that the military authorities in this regard will have to rely on a certain amount of voluntary effort. We used to do this in Queensland, and I cannot see why it could not be done in an Australian sense. 
We used to have a great deal of it. I have taken part in voluntary camps, and they have proved very effective. 
I believe that there is, but  it is  a practice which could very well be extended. I agree with the suggestion that permanent sites for camps should be chosen. To lay down a camp every year necessitates considerable expense in the provision of water supply and fuel, and with the population increasing the difficulty of obtaining suitable sites becomes greater each succeeding year. The same remarks apply, but in a greater degree, to the finding of areas in which big gun practice can be carried on. The time is ripe when efforts should be made to secure control of areas in which the necessary big gun practice can be carried out annually. A question of detail has been raised as to what can be done with the men in camps on Sundays. My idea is that they can go to church in the morning - that is a parade in itself - and in the afternoon turn to work again. We followed that practice in Queensland at one time, and there was no outcry from the religious denominations. 
The question of providing sufficient remounts is a very grave one. To-day we are not breeding the class or the quantity of horses we should require if war unhappily broke out again. Despite the other means of transport at our disposal, the horse has not yet been eliminated. Horses can go where motors cannot. Therefore, in order to supply the requirements of cavalry and artillery, we must still keep our eyes on horse production, and every effort must be made to encourage the breeding of the right type. As horse-breeding is not a profitable, proposition, it is possible that some financial assistance will have to be given directly or indirectly to those who engage in it. 
I regret that the Bankruptcy Act has not been brought into force, but I dare say a good deal of machinery has to be arranged before it can be proclaimed. I notice that the Attorney-General announced the other day that matters were well in hand for an early proclamation of the act. 
Steps for consolidating the companies law have not made much progress. A suggestion has been made that the States should surrender their rights in respect to company legislation, and that the Commonwealth should pass a uniform Com panies Act, which seems to be the best way out of the difficulty. I trust tha? the necessary legislation will be put through this session, because the time is over-ripe for a uniform Federal Companies Act. I understand that a committee appointed by the Chambers of Commerce of " Australia is conferring with the Federal Government in connexion with this question, and I hope that some effort will be made to reach finality in the matter. 
As the question of a new States referendum is to be brought under the notice of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce),  I trust the matter will be given sympathetic consideration, and that the machinery necessary for creating new States will  be  simplified. An appeal would have to be made to the people by way of referendum, and that is all that is being asked for at present. 
Queensland is indulging in a scheme of child endowment, in connexion with which, according to this morning's newspapers, there is a possibility of some difficulties arising. I do not advocate the Commonwealth Government acting in the direction that Queensland is, because that would only have the effect of paralysing industry, as will be the case in that State. I believe in child endowment in a certain form. Pour or five years ago I brought under the notice of employers a child endowment scheme which I thought would be equitable to all concerned, but as it was not favorably considered, I did not proceed with the elaboration of the details. Briefly, the scheme was based on a basic wage for a single man, and had to be considered from the stand-point of the State and of the employers. As a rule it does not matter to the employer whether an employee is married or single, so long as he is efficient, although most employers take a sentimental interest in the conditions under which old and trusted employees are working. Strictly speaking, the employer's interest is based on efficient service. The interest of the State lies in the man's marriage and subsequent family. It seems to me that the basic wage of a single man should be built up from two angles. The employers should  recognize  efficiency, a margin of skill, and long ' service, and an understanding should be reached on these points  by appointingsomething like the Whitley boards or councils to carry out the necessary investigations. From the stand-point of the State, it appears to me that thewage of a man should be increased when he marries, and further increased onthe arrival of each child, until they reach; say, fourteen years of age, when, in ordinary circumstances, they would be able to assist in supporting themselves. A fund established for that purpose should be contributed to by the Government, the employer, and the employee. I do not think it is the responsibility of the employer, but there would be more contentment amongst the workers, which would be useful, although agood deal could be said against the necessity of employers contributing at all. Such a fund is more the resfionsibility of the State and the employee than the employer. 
What I have said will indicate liberal views towards employees, but it has been urged in some quarters that Iam an extremist. During a recent debate an honorable senator opposite desired to know where I was in 1891. Those who are conversant with the happenings of that period know that abush workers' strike was in progress, and that a thousand men in camp were reported tobe drilling and sharpening shear-blades, and arming themselveswith Winchesterrifles with the assistance of which it was said they were going to " collar " the country. 
-It was not. The (Government of the daycalled out the troops, and as I was an officer in the mounted infantryat that time, I had to obey the call. Owingtothe action of theGovernment serious bloodshed was avoided, andthestrike terminated without anyserious injury to human beings. 
It is idle to make such a statement. The honorablesenatormust remember that theprincipaltimbers in the Ebor Creek railway bridgewere sawn almost through, and a train was stopped just in time to prevent an accidentwhichwould have had very serious consequences, in which the workers' friends as well as others would havebeen involved. 
I have also been blamed in consequence of a garbled report of the proceedings at an employers' meeting in Brisbane. The question under consideration was in relation to the machinery available when the lives of the people and property were endangered in consequence of riots arising out of strikes or revolution. I urged that in such circumstances it would be necessary to use force to protect the people, and indicated that trained forces were desirable in order to subdue the rabble. It was because I made that statement that I have been regarded as an extremist, and as the incident was recently mentioned in another place I thought it my duty to place the facts before honorable senators. 
I express my extreme satisfaction with the budget, and I believe it will be very useful to submit its contents to the people prior to the forthcoming general election. 
It is only natural tofind honorable senators opposite pleased with the budget. It is onlywhat one could expect when it has been prepared by a government which theyare supporting. The Government intend to increase invalid and old-age pensions from 17s.6d to 20s. weekly,which, of course, will bea benefit to the poor; but at the same time we are informed that a reduction of12½ per cent. is to be made in income taxation, which, incomparison,, willbe of greaterbenefit to the wealthy people in our midst. The poor people are satisfied with an increase of 2s. 6d. per week,, which is equivalent to £6 10s. per year, but those whoare well able to contribute towards the revenue are tobe relieved of paying hundreds of thousandsof pounds in the aggregate. Why should there be any reduction in income taxation ? 
Why should we commence fey relieving the wealthy of their obligations, instead of removing the burden from the shoulders of those who are least able to bear it ? Those paying income taxation are ina position to do so. 
SenatorGuthrie. - What taxation would the honorable senator relieve the workersof ? 
Ifrelief can be affordedto the rich, why should not a similar privilege be given to the poor! 
The honorable senator is well aware that the income taxation imposed upon those who are able to pay is simply passed on. 
Those who have been through the industrial mill recognize that the passing on of taxation and other responsibilities which the employers should bear has become a curse, not only in Australia, but wherever taxation is imposed. 
I shall deal with that aspect of the question later. It is well' known that business men meet their taxation by increasing the price of the commodities which they sell. Every increase is passed on to the people. Although there is to be reduced taxation there will be no reduction ins the price of commodities. 
Sen ator Wilson. - How does  Senator J.  Grant pass on his income taxation? 
 Senator Grant  has given me the impression that there is something in the policy which he advocates. If the Government are, as they profess to be, the friends of the primary producers, they should exempt them from income taxation, and impose a halfpenny or a penny in the pound taxation on unimproved land values. They would not have the bother of making up returns, and in addition the department would catch the rich landholders in the capital cities of the Commonwealth. 
I am contending that the exemption should be higher than it is. 
The honorable senator knows quite well that I was referring to the man in business, who passes it on. The manon a regular salary cannot do that. The big financial men should be prevented from dodging: the taxation demands of the department.  Senator Lynch  knows that through the several stratas of human activity there is a. filtering process right down to the lower levels. In that way, taxation is passed on from the rich to the poor. I do not think it is right that there should be a reduction of 12½per cent. in income taxation when we are spending such vast sums of loan money on. public works. Speaking from memory, I think it, is proposed this year to spend £6,000 , 000 on postal works, and £300,000 on migration. Why should we reduce taxation on people who are well able to bear it, and at the same time spend loan money on public works? If possible, we should pay for all public works, not from loan, but out of revenue. 
Not necessarily. My contention is that if we cannot pay for public works out of revenue, we have no right to reduce taxation to the extent of hundreds of thousands of pounds.  Senator Payne  had something to say about the people who, according to him, patriotically lent their money to the Government at 4½ per cent. during the war. He forgot, to mention that this money was, not forthcoming, until the Government had announced that interest on war loans would be free of Federal and State taxation. Then, of course, the money rolled in. As a matter of fact, the contribution by certain of the wealthier people in Australia to war loans was not so. much an act of patriotism as a shrewd business- move. 
I am speaking particularly of the big men financially, who benefited from the income tax exemption on war loans. I agree that the smaller ment were patriotic, because their subscriptions to war loans involved a certain amount of sacrifice.  Senator Payne,  whilst applauding these people, forgot to mention that whilst they were contributing to war loans, many of them were making immense profits at the expense of returned soldier settlers by charging them £70, £80 or £100 a ton for galvanized iron which cost them from £17 to £18 a ton. 
 Senator .Payne  was applauding the men who invested in war loans at 4-J per cent, at a time when they could have got 5 per cent, or 6 per cent, for their money. As he forgot to mention what enormous profits some of them were making out of returned soldier settlers, I am presenting that side of the picture. The proposed reductions in taxation, Federal and State, we are told, will amount to £1,712,500. This virtually is a gift to the wealthier sections of the community, who should have borne a fairer proportion of our war burdens. If it benefits the poorer sections of the people to the extent of 5 per cent., it benefits the rich to the extent of 95 per cent. 
Members of the Government are supposed to be protectionists, but some of them appear to have a leaning towards freetrade. 
My Leader  (Senator Gardiner)  is a freetrader. 
Because the policy of the Government is supposed to bc protection. 
We stand for the new protection. 
My Leader must stand to  the  policy of my party, which is protection - the new protection. 
I do not stand for that policy. 
The Government, which is supposed to be protectionist, has just sent orders oversea for £9,000,000 worth of work which should have been done in Australia. Evidently it stands for some bastard system of protection under which commodities are produced by sweated labour in other countries. 
The honorable senator knows where I stand. I am Australian through and through. I believe in Australia every time and all the time. Unfortunately, the majority of our people, in this respect, are not good Australians. 
The honorable senator's motor car i3 not Australian made. 

 Sitting suspended from, 1 to 2 p.m. 

That is the real reason for the excellence of our article. 
I wish to make a few remarks on: immigration. Unemployment is prevalent in England, and the- British) Government is doing its- best to- relieve the position by sending unemployed' Britishers to Australia- and the other. British, dominions-.. Tie- percentage of unemployed in. England and- Australia' last April was 10i4 per cent., and' 10:3 per cent respectively.- Australia-, therefere;, has almost as many unemployed proportionately as England. In the circumstances it certainly is not fair that British unemployed should be sent here. If the Australian- consumers were  strongly  Australian' in- sentiment, we could cosily overcome our difficulties; for. they would- buy only  Australian-made  good's. If that were done,, employment could lie found' for' all- the unemployed here; The problem would be solved surely and safely. The Leader of the Government in the Senate.  (Senator Pearce)  claimed not long ago that only a small percentage of Italians could come to Australia each month-.  His  statement appears to be incorrect, for figures have been supplied' to us which show that T95 Italians arrived here each month in the first quarter of this year. That is far aBove the quota he  mentioned. These Italians are finding their way to our industrial centres. A report in  Smith's Weekly  stated that the Broken Hill Proprietary Company has so many southern Europeans on the Barrier that it does not know what to do with them, and they are almost starving.  Senator Pearce  also informed us that before an Italian could land here he had to show that he possessed a capital of £40. The Queensland commission which, recently inquired into the immigration, of Italians into 
Australia obtained, conclusive  evidence  that many of. the; people- who&gt; were supposed te have £40  on  landing? really had not  at  penny.. . They weise destitute:. The  Government  professes that- it desires to prevent the. influx  oi£  these; Italians, but, for* my part; I believe- that it really desires to encourage it. If it earnestly desired1  Vo  restrict this- class of immigration, it  could  adopt- the- quota- system of the (government- of the United- States of America, under which-, I believe, in- respect of the- total' number of immigrants per month-, only 2 per cent. of Italians- are- allowed1 to&gt; laird". When.ever this proposal is- ma'de to the?. Government, it says, " We' do not wish to- offend' the Italian Government. The- Italians- were our allies' during  the  war-.'" They were- our  allies  because it paid them to be so. 
The original immigration restriction law, which gave effect to the White Australia policy, was introduced by the Barton Government. 

<graphic href="111332192508283_18_0.jpg"></graphic>

The proportion of British and Italian cane-cutters employed during thesame period was as follows.: - 

<graphic href="111332192508283_18_1.jpg"></graphic>

The people of Australia arecharged £38 a ton for thesugar produced here,and not oneounceof sugar is allowed to be imported. 
If primary production is to make progress, we should have only one bank - the Commonwealth Bank - in Australia. Itwould be in a position to lendits money at cheaper rates of interest, and make advances much more f reely than is now possible. Australian industries would also expand. I trust that the Australian manufactured article will bear the stamp," Made in Australia," and that the people of the Commonwealth generally willgive honest support to the products of their own country. If they do so, our manufactures will expand, and we shall have no unemployed problem. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator 
Elliott) adjourned. 
.- I move- 
That the Senate at its rising adjourn until 11 a.m. to-morrow. 
An extraordinary attitude has been taken up by the New South Wales State Government in refusing to allow its police to carry out and enforce a law of the Commonwealth. In view of this, the Commonwealth Government, charged as it is with the responsibility of enforcing such laws, has found it necessary to introduce legislation to deal, with this extraordinary situation. Therefore, I am asking the Senate to meet to-morrow, in order that if this legislation is passed by another place it can at once be dealt with by us. 
It is for the appointment of peace officers; that is to say, officers who are charged with the maintenance of peace and good order in the Commonwealth. 
I shall certainly oppose this adjournment. I am surprised beyond imagination at the step taken by the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Hitherto in the Senate so much confidence has existed between both sides that honorable senators have been kept in touch -with everything that is happening. It has not been evident today. For instance, at lunch- time I paid my weekly account and made preparations for returning to Sydney. Now, I shall have to make fresh arrangements for accommodation. A word from the Minister would have been quite sufficient. He has known all the morning what is intended to be done, but he has kept it to himself. Why is the Government acting in this way ? Because it has found that the legislation so hurriedly passed a few weeks ago is proving ineffective. I suppose that if it finds any step it takes ineffective it will take another. It doles not mind what happens provided it .can make out a good electioneering cry. There is no earnestness about it. It has no intention of passing legislation to benefit the Commonwealth. Its sole intention is to work up an atmosphere suitable for the holding of an election. Desperate gambles may turn out either way. Ministers are like a " Jubilee Plunger "  proceding  from one desperate gambling plunge to another, in the hope that they will convince the people that there is some serious industrial trouble in the Commonwealth. 
Certainly. There is a bit of a dispute going on, but thousands of disputes of much greater importance have been in progress in Australia without it being necessary to alter the procedure of Parliament. 
I do not regard the situation as at all serious. 
I know that  Senator Pearce  is naturally nervous. In fact, the whole of the Government is nervous. 
It is true thai ships are tied up, but I should like  Senator Reid  to say whether the action of the Government is not calculated to increase industrial difficulties. Notwithstanding the furtiveness of the Government and its endeavour to drag the Commonwealth down to the level of some of those insignificant republics of which we have read, Ministers must realize that there is abroad in Australia a spirit of freedom and toleration. We have from time to .time been faced with difficulties infinitely more serious and threatening than those which face us at the present moment, but calm judgment and good and wise statesmanship have carried us over them. I do not feel at all confident to-day because of the nervous, impetuous, ill-considered conduct of the Government. It has passed a piece of legislation which is objectionable to every man who loves liberty. If makes interference in industrial matters a more serious offence than that of murder. It takes from those who -so offend the right of trial by jury, which even the worst criminal can demand. It has first prepared summonses, and then set about the appointment of a board to deal with them. It has had trouble in getting people to accept appointments on this board, because the only condition under which they could be accepted was that they would bind themselves to find any one brought before them guilty. 
If it is not correct, why has not the Government chosen men who have the confidence of the country? Why has it fallen back on a public servant to fill one of the positions ? I suppose he had no option but to accept the appointment. 
This sort of procedure is taking us back centuries, ut I am not surprised at it, because of the ineptitude of the incompetents who are now ' governing the Commonwealth. 
 Senator Reid  has evidently been in caucus, and thus is in possession of facts which have not come under my notice. 
Instead of this information being made available at a caucus meeting it should have been given here. I asked for it yesterday, but  Senator Pearce  refused to give it, saying that he would give it in his own good time. He has not yet done so. 
But according to  Senator Reid  the Minister has not made a full statement to the Senate. 
It is evident that the blame is to be placed on some one else, and, so far as that is concerned, I think it was most praiseworthy of  Mr. Lang,  the Premier of New South Wales, to refuse to have anything to do with any Commonwealth law that cuts right across the grain of British liberty. 
No. But  Mr. Lang  has a right to act for the State whose affairs he is responsible for administering. Even  Senator Pearce,  short-sighted and vindictive as he appears to be, will agree that  Mr. Lang  has his own responsibilities, and must act according to his own conscience. 
I am totally unacquainted with the part that  Mr. Lang  has played. I have only the information given by  Senator Reid  that he is somewhat to blame for this belated action on the part of the Commonwealth Government in calling on the Senate to alter its sitting day, so that a new police force, or something of that kind, may be constituted. The Government has found that the legislation it recently passed is not rigid enough to enable it to carry out  iU  intentions, seeing that those who are charged with the responsibility of governing the States will not enforce it. I shall not be surprised at other obstacles cropping up, even if this particular difficulty is overcome by the step now proposed to be taken. The Constitution provides that where a State law clashes with a Federal law the latter takes precedence, but I doubt very much whether that will permit of a citizen of New South Wales being removed by a board such as the one that has been appointed within the last day or two. At least there is no need for haste. I foresee years of legal proceedings before any one can be deported. 
I have read the Constitution from end to end, and am fairly well acquainted with it. It is based on the principles upon which the British people have been governed for centuries, and one of those principles is that nothing shall be done contrary, shall I say, to the intentions of British  justice.  No little clique or combination of men may override the liberties of British people. 
The honorable senator need be in no hurry. The courts will interpret the Constitution. Before the Government can lay a hand on a British citizen in any part of Australia, it will have to overcome obstacles and difficulties raised in the courts of justice which safeguard the liberty of British citizens. 
It is his duty to interpret the Constitution as far as .his responsibilities to his State arc concerned, and, 'knowing him as I do, I know that he will do what he conscientiously believes to be right. He will not accept the word of pettifoggers who are merely engaged in creating an electioneering cry, and who think that all this will gain them some kudos. I do not know that  Mr. Lang  has not agreed to do everything the Commonwealth Government has asked him to do. 'The Minister has not given us any information on the point. Instead, he is hurrying to alter the  procedure of Parliament in order 'to meet some petty difficulty. I-t is all being done with a view to working up feeling. I can imagine the headline in to-morrow's newspapers - "'Parliament Sits on Saturday." Why is it -to meet? In order to revive  Mr. Hughes's  long-forgotten police force without 'even the .dramatic incident of first having an egg thrown at it. The Government have not created the proper .atmosphere. The Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  and his colleagues -are endeavouring to imitate a gentleman -who .carried out a number of illegal .deportations, protected as he -was by the war sentiment -which then prevailed. The Prime Minister at the time  (Mr. Hughes)  was certain 'he could have his own 'way, because, .-as he said, the safety  of the 'Empire depended upon his actions. We have long since returned to peaceful times, and -the ordinary law courts, in which wrong-doers can be punished, are still .open. What has happened in this great -Commonweal bh -that the 'existing laws and courts are insufficient to protect the .people? What is happening in Australia? Have we reached a position when wrong-doers who threaten the trade and commerce, the peace and good government of .this country, cannot be tried in the ordinary way under o.ur Australian laws ? Are not our judges capable of trying these men whom the Government wish to .deport ? 
The Government apparently' think not. Certain people have formulated what they term  a policy, but have managed the affairs of the Commonwealth so poorly, and have conducted its business so unsatisfactorily, that they are now looking for a means by which to smother up their misdeeds. I can imagine their supporters getting together and saying, " This is 'our last hope. This is our only opportunity of being saved before the elections." All I can say is that I wish them well. I am sorry that the whole of the members of the Senate are not going to the country at- the next election, but am sure that for every Nationalist returned at least six supporters of the Labour party will be elected. 
That would take three months. A double dissolution may, however, occur soon after the next elections. At 2.30 on a Friday afternoon we are asked by the Minister to adjourn until Saturday, merely because the Government desires to introduce legislation to give it power to deport those whom it considers are responsible for the promotion of strikes. That is the term used. The Minister has not even submitted to the Senate the names of any of the alleged offenders. The Government has not taken the country into its confidence, neither has it stated by whom the summonses were drawn up, or on whose sworn testimony .they have -been issued. Any person taking out a summons - -it is a serious process - has to make a declaration that .an -offence has been committed against him before -the law can  commence  to operate. I .should like to know -what has influenced the Government in .requesting its highest .official in -the Attorney-General's Department to proceed ,to Sydney to serve summonses upon persons whose names are at present unknown to us. The Government has .not even had the  decency  to' name the individuals; but it has allowed information, which has been regarded as secret, to be published in the press. Nothing can be more discreditable or calculated to .bring the .courts into -disrepute - and it is the duty  of  the -.Government to keep them on a high level - than . providing such a weapon as it is proposed to use against certain alleged offenders. If I we're a member of the Government, and I thought any persons in this community were a menace to the peace, order and' good government of the country, I would see that they were brought to justice in the old-fashioned British way. The offence they had committed would be dealt with under the laws relating- to such offences, and in the ordinary courts constituted: to. deal out justice to all. In effect, the- Government is saying' that it has not the courage to approach the established tribunals, and is therefore creating a board before- which an inquiry can be conducted. The only justification for the action being taken is that the Government has received a distinct promise from the persons to be appointed' to the boardthat the offenders- will be found' guilty regardless of the evidence. 
How can it be otherwise? I can only surmise what is behind the. action of the Government.. 

 Senator- GARDINER.- Yes, but the Minister has- declined' to give any inform mation. One of the chief functions, of Parliament is to provide information to the people on matters of public importance. 
Yes, when, the ulterior motives of this Government are known.. Why is it not available now?. 

 Senator- Pearce. - The honorable senator will be supplied- with full information when the bill is before the Senate. 
The bill is promised by Saturday, and the members of this Chamber will have to remain here cooling their heels until' it has been disposed of in another place. I suppose it will be rushed' through the other Chamber by the application of the- guillotine. 
I do not think I shall. I can assure the Minister that I have no doubt as to- the- action the Government proposes to take. If I had my way I would give it all the rope I possibly could, knowing that in doing so the more- entangled it would-, become-. Meeting as- members of this composite Government do. in separate party rooms when matters of policy are. under- discussion, it is only natural that they shouldfind themselves in a tangle. 
I was not thinking of myself. 
I cannot help thanking of the position  Senator Lynch  occupied a few years ago; when he supported those admirable- principles which we now advocate. I cannot recall, in. this: instance having, uttered one word in praiseof myself or my colleagues, but surely we have a record of honest government,, of high aspirations, and of an endeavour to improve the conditions of the people. I can remember the time -  Senator Lynch  has probably forgotten- it - when he wasa champion of Labour. He wasthenanupright,straightforward and conscientious man, and one upon whom the Labour party could depend for almost anything: 
He was not kicked out, but acted as he did because he thought he would make his position safe for at least one election. I give him credit for his astuteness. 

 Several honorable senators interjecting, 


 -(Senator- the Hon.. T. Givens). - Order! There are too many interjections. 
Discussion of the tariff is irrelevant to the question before the Chair. 
I desire to point out to the Senate, and to  Senator Guthrie  in particular, that interjections are disorderly. A reply to  Senator Guthrie's  interjection would be irrelevant, would prolong the debate, and would be the means of drawing  Senator Gardiner  away from the question before the Chair, which relates solely to the day to which the Senate shall adjourn. 
My duty is to keep the debate relevant. 
Perhaps it is, but it would be irrelevant. 
I could be forgiven if I indulged the hope that the time would come - I know 'itnever will - when I should have the power to constitute a board to try every member of this Parliament who voted for the Deportation Bill. Possibly they are within measurable distance of that time. I should not hurry about the business of repealing the measure, because, possibly, the next election will give Labour a majority, and if I wished I might have the opportunity to bring prominent supporters of the bill before me, and secure their conviction on the flimsy evidence which it is proposed to bring against certain industrial leaders shortly. 
Girder ! I remind honorable senators that there are altogether too many interjections. 
All this has nothing whatever to do with: the question. 
Under the sessional orders it now becomes my duty to put the question, which must be put without debate, " That the Senate do now adjourn." 
 Mr. President- 
Motion (by  Senator Duncan)  proposed - 
That the Senate do now divide. 
I was on my feet,  Mr. President,  when you called on  Senator Duncan.  I desired to exercise my right- 
But I desired to speak, and I was on my feet before  Senator Duncan. 
But I was on my feet before  Senator Duncan  was called. 
But I had a right to speak. 
I have my rights as well as you. 
I have my rights to protect, and I intend to do so. 
I. resume my seat. 
 I have to inform the Senate that I have received a certificate of the choice of William Plain to fill the casual vacancy in the representation of Victoria in the Senate caused by the death of  Senator E.  J. Russell. The certificate will be laid on the table and read by the Acting  Clerk. 
Certificate read by the Acting Clerk. 

 Senator Plain made and subscribed the oath of allegiance. 
 I was nearly going to say that- I am surprised at the proposal submitted by  Senator Pearce,  but nothing surprises me. A bill has come to the Senate, and without a word as to its contents, and without any explanation as to the necessity for haste, the Minister moves for the suspension of the Standing Orders to pass it through without delay. I appeal to honorable- senators opposite to say, flinty as their hearts may be, biased and prejudiced as they have shown themselves to be throughout the whole of this session, whether this is' the proper way to treat the Senate? If there is need for the suspension of the Standing Orders, it should be made known within the walls of this chamber, but the Minister has failed to give that information, because he is satisfied that his subservient following- 
 I do not think that the honorable senator is entitled to reflect on other honorable senators. 
It is not a matter of opinion. It is a matter of obeying theStanding Orders. 
. -It is the duty of honorable senators to exercise to the fullest extent the rights afforded them under the Standing Orders. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber are, therefore, justified in endeavouring to prevent a suspension of the Standing and Sessional Orders to enable the Government to introduce panic legislation as is now proposed. One would imagine from the statement made in another place by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce),  and in the Senate by the Minister  (Senator Pearce),  that the country was in a state of revolution. What arethe facts? A number of men are on strike in Sydney, and in other ports of the Commonwealth, but notwithstanding the unsettled industrial conditions, not a single minor offence such as would be dealt with in a court of petty sessions has been committed. I am strongly opposed to the introduction of the bill, because I believe that it will only be the means of encouraging industrial strife, and will seriously affect the peace, order, and good government of the Commonwealth. It is a direct invitation to law-abiding citizens to break the law. 
SenatorHANNAN. - During the debate in this chamber yesterday  Senator Guthrie  referred by interjection to  Mr. Walsh,  the action of communists and the security of the Empire, but the honorable senator knows that it is only something in. the nature of an industrial disturbance, such as has occurred in Sydney, that is likely to save his political skin.  Senator Guthrie  and those with whom he is associated are urging the Government to rush this legislation through in their own interests. Yesterday, in moving that the Senate should meet this morning, the Minister did not endeavour in the slightest degree to justify the action of his colleagues. I now challenge the right honorable gentleman to justify the action he is taking. 
SenatorHANNAN. - I would give him the opportunity now if I thought he would listen to reason, and pay some regard to the arguments adduced from this side of the chamber. When the members of the Government have made up their minds to incite men to become lawbreakers, it is useless to permit the Minister to proceed. In these circumstances it is the duty of honorable senators on this side of the chamber to exercise their rights to prevent such an iniquitous bill coming before the Senate. The organized workers are the most lawabiding men on the face of God's earth, and notwithstanding the fact that feeling is running high, and that industrial unrest prevails, the men who are most vitally interested are obeying in every way the laws under which they live. The bill has not been introduced with the intention of suppressing lawbreakers, but' merely to incite men to do wrong.  Senator Guthrie  said yesterday that we were endeavouring to penalize the primary producers, and prevent them from exporting their commodities to the markets of the world. 
If the Government refrain from interfering in this deplorable dispute it will terminate within a week. The action of the Government in submitting an amending Navigation Bill, an amending Immigration Bill under which it is proposed to deport certain persons, and appointing a police force to give effect to its decisions, can only lead to further industrial unrest. The dispute which exists between the British shipowners and certain British seamen could be terminated within a very short time if the Government declined to intervene in this way. If it desires to protect the interests of the primary producers it should not introduce such a measure as this. If anything is calculated to embitter men it is this attempt to bring their leaders under the ban of the law. 
SenatorWilson.  -  Does not the honorable senator think that they should be under the ban of the law in the same way that every one else is 
Already we have laws to deal with every section of the community. There is no occasion to create a new law. The measure which was placed upon our statute-book recently is opposed to the fundamental principles of British justice. Now the Government proposes to pass a bill under which they may interfere with the leaders of Australian trade unions. Honorable senators opposite, or, at all events, those of them who have been associated with the Labour movement in the past, are aware that at times differences of opinion occur between trade union leaders and their followers. They also know that whenever any attempt is made to interfere with the leaders, the differences of opinion previously existing amongst the rank and file immediately disappear, the workers close up" their ranks and stand together. 
I am opposed to the motion, because I know what will happen if the projected bill is introduced and . passed by this chamber. No one regrets more than I do what has occurred, but I am as certain as I am that night follows day that the measure about to be introduced will incite the men, and that grave trouble will occur if any attempt is made to deport their leaders. It will not then be a question of tying up a few ships flying the British flag, but perhaps the dislocation of the entire shipping trade of Australia. Some people believe that this is the intention of the Government. A false psychology was created at thecommencement of the dispute. People were led to believe that it was instigated by Australian industrial leaders. As a fact, the action taken by certain British crews upon arrival in Australia was similar to that taken by other British crews in British ports. A few weeks ago this Parliament passed a measure commonly known as the Deportation Bill, under which the Government proposed to deal with certain leaders of a dispute in the Australian shipping industry. That dispute would never have been settled if Ministers had had their way. Fortunately, calm, brave men who lead the industrial movement outside this Parliament got together and brought about a settlement. But for their intervention, the probability is that the whole of the Australian shipping trade would still have been held up. I am hopeful that these calm and courageous men will again intervene, and prevent the Government from achieving its purpose. I believe that the measure to be introduced will incite and invite law-abiding citizens to break down peace, order, and good government in Australia. For this reason, I am strongly opposed to the suspension of the Standing Orders. All the legislation passed during the past few weeks by this Government to deal with industrial disputes is quite contrary to our conception of that liberty and freedom which we have enjoyed up to the present. 
 Nineteen years ago I was elected a member of this chamber, and during the whole of the time that I have had the honour to remain here, I have always opposed a motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders, particularly in circumstances such as the present. The present Government holds the record in this respect. During the past two years the Standing Orders  of  the Senate have been suspended more frequently than in all the years preceding its accession to office. It has been obliged to resort to this expedient because of its inability to govern efficiently. The present situation reminds me of a story which perhaps I may be permitted to relate. It deals with a claim on behalf of a workman who had met his death as the result of. injuries. Counsel for the insurance company whilst crossexamining a witness endeavoured to get his interpretation of a miracle. " Suppose," he said, "that Brown climbed to the top of a ten-story building with a load of slates, and, after delivering them to the slater, fell down to the ground and escaped injury, what would  you call that?" "I would call that an accident," replied the witness. "Very well," said counsel, "suppose he climbed the building a second time, and again fell without injury, what would you call that?" "I would call that a coincidence," said the witness. " Suppose it happened the third time ; what would you call that ?" " I would call it a damned bad habit," was the witness's reply. That is what may be said of this Government in respect of this motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders. It has become a habit, which' we should seek to check. The Senate is supposed to jealously guard the interests of the States. Speaking generally, it does. Its members are supposed not to be stampeded into the passing of ill-considered legislation. Unfortunately, the Government has been ' stampeded, not by the people of Australia, but by the National Federation and the Shipowners Federation. They are virtually the dictators. They have intimated to the Government that it must do something to cover up the deficiencies in the recently-passed deportation law. They have told the Government that it must rush this legislation through at a special Saturday sitting of the Senate. The bill foreshadowed could very easily have been dealt with in the ordinary manner. The industrial trouble with which it is supposed to deal will probably be settled very shortly. Parliament yesterday could have adjourned at the usual time, and members could have gone to their homes in their respective States. In all probability the trouble would have been disposed of before their return on Wednesday next. But no. This Government is panicky. Bereft of every argument against the policy of the party which we have the honour to represent in. this chamber, the' Government desires something to happen in order to give it a political advantage. Ministers and their 'supporters know that, in the ordinary course of events, they must face the people at an early date. They know also that they have not a feather to fly with. Measures promised in the GovernorGeneral's speech have not been introduced. The business-paper in the Senate indicates that the Government is not giving effect to its policy. Ministers know that their reputation has been lost, and, like a drowning man who clutches at a straw, they have seized upon this pretext and are trying to make the people believe that there is a state of revolution in Australia. The Government got into a panicky state and said, " We will keep Parliament sitting all night and all next day to pass legislation that will enable us to appoint peace officers." It is only three or four weeks since the Senate was asked to, and did', suspend its Standing Orders to allow of the passage of another measure dealing with an industrial trouble. The Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  told us on , that occasion that if the Senate passed the measure, which is known as the Deportation Act, this Government and this Parliament would have all the powers that were necessary to deal with the trouble that was said to exist. 
It is unwise f Or the Government to ask honorable senators so frequently to suspend the Standing Orders.  Senator Payne  will remember that both Houses of this Parliament sat all night debating the provisions of that measure, so far as the application of those two modern political instruments, the " guillotine " and the " gag " would allow. Yesterday honorable senators had evidence of the panicky state in which the Government now finds itself. No sooner had the Leader of the Senate intimated yesterday, the desire of the Government to sit to-day, and my respected leader  (Senator Gardiner)  had replied, than the "gag" was introduced in order to prevent other honorable senators from discussing, in a reasonable way, the queston  whether or not we. should meet to-day. My honorable friend,  Senator Wilson,  smiles. I am not dealing with this matter in a spirit of levity; I am serious. When a state of panic exists, even legislators are not free from infection. It is not possible to legislate for a nation when the minds of its legislators are agitated or'-excited. I have not the slightest intention to become either agitated or excited, but I know that the members of the Ministry are in that state. If honorable senators agree to the  suspension of the Standing Orders - as I believe they will - I ask them to approach in a calm and serious way the consideration of the bill. The Leader of the Senate has treated the Senate with contumely, and honorable senators like a lot of school boys. He could have told us yesterday the reason for asking us to sit today. When, a few minutes ago, he moved for the suspension of the Standing Orders, he could have given some information to support his proposal. I see that  Senator Duncan  is anxious to repeat his performance of yesterday. It would have been much better if the Leader of the Senate had stated yesterday that on the next  ordinary sitting day a measure would come forward from another place and be dealt with in the customary manner. I do not think there is any necessity for this bill, and the Government would not now have had to bring it forward if, three weeks ago, a little calmness, coolness, and forethought had been exercised. 
.- I move- 
That the Senate do now divide. 
I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
In submitting this bill I think it is necessary that I should state a few elementary facts in regard to this Parliament and the laws that it passes. A few weeks ago I should not have thought it essential to do so, but the happenings of the last two or three days have forced me to this view. First of all, let me say that this Parliament has been empowered to make laws within the ambit of its Constitution. That Constitution, although an act of the British Parliament, has been accepted and endorsed by a majority of the people in a majority of the States of the Commonwealth. It endows this Parliament with as full power to pass legislation as that possessed by any Parliament in Australia or in any other part of the British Empire. 
Within the area defined by its Constitution it has as full power as any other parliament in any part of the world. That being so, the question arises as to the responsibility in connexion with the laws that this Parliament passes. As to their merits and political aspect, this Parliament is responsible to the people of Australia and to no one else. It is not responsible to any other Government - not even the Imperial Government. It is responsible solely to the people of Australia. It is the people of Australia and not any government or any Minister of any government that must pass judgment on the merits of any law that is passed by it. As to the legality of our laws, the duty of determining their validity or otherwise, is placed, by the Constitution itself, upon the High Court. No other authority has the right to decide the constitutionality of our laws. In respect of certain of our enactments, an appeal to the Privy Council has been expressly provided for, but all questions as to their constitutionality must be decided by the High Court, unless the court itself grants permission for an appeal to be made elsewhere. No Government, not even the Imperial Government, is entitled to express an opinion, or to pass judgment, upon the constitutionality of any law we pass. That also is a fundamental and elementary principle, but, apparently, some gentlemen in this country have never learned it. If they have, they have forgotten it, otherwise some statements that have been made recently would certainly not have been made. All parliaments may pass laws upon which the people at the proceeding election were not consulted. The people, however, have this remedy: That when the Parliament next goes to the country they may, at the polls, reject the Government and those who supported them in passing any law of which they disapprove. That is and always has been the only measure of control that the people can haveover a Parliament working under the British system of parliamentary government. No section of the people, no outside organization, no other government has any control, or- ought to have control, over any free Parliament within the British Empire. The people who elect it alone can deal with it. Slow, having set out these rudimentary principles upon which our legislation is based, I come to a consideration of the province of the Executive, or Government of the Commonwealth. Its province is the same as that of any responsible Government operating under the British parliamentary system. Collectively and individually it is sworn  to administer and give effect to the laws that Parliament has passed. Its responsibility is the administration and enforcement of the law, and it is answerable in that respect only to this Parliament. .No British Parliament, no State Parliament, no British Government, no State Government, has any authority over it. It is subject to this Parliament alone. The only body that can rightfully call into question its executive and administrative acts is this Parliament in either House. That is another elementary principle that seems to have been forgotten by some gentlemen. I wish now to quote a section of the covering act of the Constitution which has an important bearing on the relative positions of the Commonwealth and State Governments in respect to the laws of the Commonwealth. I remind honorable senators that this section is part of the Constitution Act which was passed by the British Parliament to give legal effect to the Constitution subject to the will of the people of Australia, and subsequently endorsed by the people. Section 5 reads - 
This act. and all laws made by the Parliament, of the Commonwealth under the Constitution shall be binding on the courts, judges. and. people of every State and of every part of the. Commonwealth, notwithstanding anything in the law3 of any State; and the laws of the 
Commonwealth shall be in force on all British ships, the Queen's ships of war excepted, whose first port of clearance and whose port of destination are in the Commonwealth. 
That is so. Apparently some people have never read that section, or if they have read it they are prepared to disregard and utterly flout it. There have been frequent occasions when the Commonwealth Government, in the exercise of its administrative power, has had to have recourse to the police forces of the States, for the reason that no Commonwealth Parliament has, as yet, by statute, inaugurated a Commonwealth police force. The enforcement of all our acts has been effected by means of the State police forces. It has never for one moment been suggested that a State Government has the right to judge of the merits of a Commonwealth act, and to decide whether it agrees with its principles before it will allow its police to administer it. The adoption of any such procedure could lead only to chaos and anarchy.- There have been three occasions, however, in the history of the Commonwealth when a State Government has arrogated to itself that right. One of these was during the war period when the "War Precautions Act was in operation. 
An act, as  Senator Greene  reminds me, that was passed by a Labour Government, and it continued to operate throughout a period in which three appeals were made to the people, and, therefore, was endorsed by the majority of the people of this country. In the administration of this act the State Government of Queensland, of which the late  Mr. Ryan  was Premier, refused to allow its police force to act. That was while the war was proceeding and while the War Precautions Act was being used to express, through administration, the legislative powers of this Commonwealth in its prosecution of the war. The next incident occurred in Western Australia. A shipping strike was in progress, instigated and conducted by the very gentlemen who are instigating and conducting the present dispute, and it was directed not only against the Australian shipping service, but also against the pilotage and harbour services of the State Government. During the progress of that strike, Customs officers, charged with the administration of the Immigration Act and the Customs Act, and quarantine officers, charged with the administration of the Quarantine Act, sought to board incoming vessels at Fremantle. The Customs officers, in the performance of their duty, desired to board the first, vessel that arrived, in order to line up and count its coloured crew and so protect the White Australia policy, lt was also their duty to protect the Customs revenue. The quarantine officers required to board the vessel in order to protect the Commonwealth against the introduction of infectious and contagious diseases. But these- Customs and quarantine officers were blocked on the wharf, because less than 50 men refused to permit them to board the launch which was to take them te the incoming steamer. There were State police on the wharf at the time, but they said, on being appealed to, that they had no instructions to interfere. The Commonwealth officers appealed to the officer in charge of the police at Fremantle, but he told them that he could not act without instructions, and that he would have to refer the matter to the Commissioner of Police at Perth. The matter was so referred, and the answer came back that the Commissioner could not interfere, as he had no instructions to do so. When this was communicated to the Commonwealth Government by the responsible Federal officials in Western Australia, the Prime Minister at once telegraphed to the Premier of Western Australia asking that protection should be afforded to these Federal officers. The Prime Minister intimated to the State- Premier that further information had been received that the same people had also refused to allow  His  Majesty's mails to be taken from or placed on the mail steamers, and he asked that police protection should be given in order that the Immigration Restriction Act officers, the Customs officers, the quarantine officers; and the postal officers might board all steamers and carry out the Commonwealth laws. To that telegram no reply other than an evasive one has ever been received from the Premier of Western Australia. And so for several days the Commonwealth officers were held up, and the Commonwealth laws defied by less than 50 people, most of whom were under the age of 21 years, on the wharf at Fremantle, the State police looking on. Now I come to the third and more recent case. Here, again, we have a law of the Commonwealth providing for certain action to be taken. But, although the Prime Minister communicated with the State Government of New South Wales, asking that that action be taken, the only reply he received was a statement in the press. By telephone he communicated with the Premier of New South Wales asking if he could have a reply, or whether he was to accept a statement appealing in the press as the opinion of the State Government. He was told over the telephone that he could accept the statement appearing in the press as the decision of the State Government. 
I have stated the facts. The honorable member can draw his own conclusion as to whether it was a courteous reply or not. On three occasions State Governments have refused to allow their police to enforce Commonwealth laws. The refusals of the Queensland and New South Wales Governments were sought to be justified on the ground that in each case the State Government of the day did not agree with the Commonwealth legislation it was asked to allow its police to enforce. A very little consideration of the matter will show that, if that attitude were maintained, it would speedily bring about absolute chaos and anarchy and put an end to all Commonwealth government in Australia. But the attitude of the Western Australian Government was entirely different. Its inaction was sought to be justified on the ground that it was afraid that if it allowed the State police to protect Commonwealth officials in the exercise of their duties, it would be regarded by the unionists on strike as a provocative act, and would be likely to prolong the strike. That is to say, a section of the community which happened to be in an organization was. to be exalted above the Commonwealth Government.; the administration of the affairs of the 
Commonwealth was to be brought to a standstill, lest that particular section of the community might be exasperated. While there is little, if anything, to be said for the attitude of the Queensland and New' South Wales Governments, the attitude of the Western Australian Government was even worse. If ever there was an abandonment of the first functions of government it was when this plea was put forward by a government as justification for its inaction. Let us suppose that the position was reversed, with a Labour government administering the affairs of the Commonwealth, and a National government administering the affairs of a State, If a Commonwealth Labour government passed legislation which proved obnoxious to the Nationalist party, and called upon a State National government to allow its police to enforce it, what would be the attitude of the Labour government and its supporters if the State Nationalist government refused to do so? They would say that it was a negation of all Commonwealth government and its functions. At a very critical time in the history of this country the Government of New South Wales has refused to allow its police to be employed in the enforcement of a Commonwealth law. There are only two courses open to the Commonwealth Government and this Parliament. We must either admit that the State Government and the State Parliament are to be the judges of whether or not the Commonwealth law should be enforced, or we must clothe ourselves with the necessary power to enforce our own laws. It is the latter course that we propose to take. The Government, therefore, is asking Parliament to clothe it with the necessary power to enforce the Commonwealth laws. That such a course should have to be taken is regrettable. It means unnecessary expense and duplication of machinery. It may have a tendency to bring about strife and recrimination between the Commonwealth and State Governments. But in that regard our skirts- are clean. We have not sought this quarrel. We have not brought it on. It has been forced upon us by the attitude of State Governments. The legislation to which objection has been taken in certain quarters should be regarded as an entirely- separate issue from the enforcement of the law itself. If it chooses Parliament can take steps in either House to repeal the act. But are we to do it because of terrorism brought about by a minority of people in the country ? Or are we to do it because we are genuinely of - opinion that it is the sort of legislation that should be repealed because it is wrong? There is only one answer that can be given to that question. The bill before the Senate to-day is in no sense an attack on State rights. On the contrary, it is a defence of Commonwealth rights. Whenever there is any attack on State rights an appeal can be made to the High Court. If the State Government of New South Wales believes that the Immigration Act, as recently amended, is an attack on the rights of the citizens of the State, the proper and constitutional course for it to take is to ask the High Court to declare the law invalid. Any one in this community who stands for constitutional procedure, and is against revolution, would take that course, and the Government or party which takes any other course, stands for revolutionary action as opposed to constitutional procedure. It is for the High Court and not for  Mr. Lang  or his Government, or the New, South Wales Parliament, to determine whether the Immigration Act is constitutional or not. As a matter of fact, this issue has already been tested in the High Court. Some years ago the Commonwealth Government took steps to constitute a Deportation Board. When individuals in the communtiy  sought to subvert the Constitution and take certain action against the British Empire, a Deportation Board was convened, -and on its recommendation an order of deportation was made. The High Court was appealed to, and it declared the law to be constitutional and valid. 
The procedure is the same, but the power has been increased by an amending act. The power of the Minister to summon a person before a board to show cause why he should not be deported because he is deemed to be a person who would subvert constitutional government in this country was decided, however, in that particular case. 
There were two new arrivals involved. 
The Leader of the Opposition will not gather any comfort from that fact, because the question of whether the law applies only to new arrivals has also been before the High Court, and four Justices of the High Court have laid down the principle that " once an immigrant, always an immigrant." The question of whether a man is or is not an immigrant is not determined by the length of his residence in Australia. The High Court of Australia, the highest constituted authority, has declared to be constitutional and valid a law by which this Parliament took the power to deport British subjects. And the court having made that declaration, the responsibility rests upon the Commonwealth Parliament to say that no authority in Australia shall be allowed to subvert its constitutional right to enforce that law. What does all this mock thundering amount to? The main provisions of the Immigration Restriction Act have been in force for many years. It was on the statute-book when a Labour Government was in office with a clear majority in both Houses. Section 3 of that act provides that the following persons are prohibited immigrants :  - 
Any person not possessed of the prescribed certificate of health ; 
any idiot, imbecile, feeble-minded person, epileptic, person suffering from dementia, insane person, person who has been insane within five years previously, or person who has had two or more attacks of insanity; 
any person suffering from a serious transmissible disease or defect; 
any person suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis, trachoma, or with any loathsome or dangerous communicable disease, either general or local ; 
any person suffering from any other disease or mental or physical defect, which from its nature is, in the opinion of an officer, liable to render the person concerned a charge upon the public or upon any public or charitable institution ; 
any person suffering from any other disease, disability, or disqualification which is prescribed;  (ga)  any person who has been convicted of a crime and sentenced to imprisonment for one year or more, unless five years haveelapsed since the termination of the imprisonment;  (gb)  any person who has been convicted of any crime involving moral turpitude, but whose sentence has been suspended or shortened conditionally onhis emigration, unless five years have elapsed since the expiration of the term for which he was sentenced;  (gc)  any prostitute, procurer, or person living on the prostitution of others;  (gd)  any person who advocates the over throw by force or violence of the established government of the Commonwealth, or of any State or of any other civilized country, or of alt forms of law, or who advocates the abolition of organized government, or who advocates the assassination of public officials, or who advocates or teaches the unlawful destruction of property, or who is a member of or affiliated with any organization which entertains and teaches any of the doctrines and practices specified in this paragraph. 
Any of these persons could be deported without trial, and without even an investigation by a board. 
The Government is determined to maintain peace and order in this country. An endeavour has been made to make it appear that the action Parliament is taking is in some way directed against the industrial movement in Australia. Nothing could be further from the truth. The greatest protection the industrial movement in Australia has is the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It is under that act that the great increase in the number of trade unions and trade unionists has taken place - an increase greater than has occurred during any other decade in our history. The increase in trade unionists and their access to power is almost entirely due to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. This Parliament and this Government stands for that law. This Parliament has had the power at any time since the last election to repeal it. If the majority in this Parliament had been opposed to the industrial movement of this country it could, at any time, have stripped it of the protection and benefit which that act affords. It has not done so. 
SenatorFindley. - Not yet. 
Neither has it attempted to do so. There are anarchists and others in Australia who would do away with all law and order. But they do not influence those on this side of the chamber. What is happening in Australia is this : There has been, and is to-day, in the Commonwealth, as there is in every other country, a movement which is not industrial, but which is simply using or attempting to use the industrial movement for revolutionary purposes. There is no secrecy about it. There are, in this country, certain men who have openly declared that it is their object, and that of their followers, to "white ant" the industrial movement in order to bring about its destruction and the destruction of society in Australia. The members of this Parliament would be recreant to their trust if they shut their eyes to what is openly going on in this and other countries. We should be recreant to our trust if we allowed dust to be thrown in our eyes by those who say that if we take certain action we shall be considered to be aiming a blow at certain industrial unions; as acting as the mere tools of the capitalists, and playing into the hands of the employers. The people of Australia are an educated democracy, and will not be fooled by fustian of that kind. I am convinced that amongst the great mass of the workers, including the trade unionists, there is an urgent desire for industrial peace. The great mass of the workers of Australia who own their own homes to a greater extent than do those of any other country - the married men particularly - do not wish to be continually involved in industrial turmoil for revolutionary purposes. There are no unionists in any part of the world who will fight more strongly than will those of Australia to defend what they believe to be their rights. There are, however, those who, knowing this spirit of determination and courage which is a characteristic of the unionists of this country, bore into the unions and try to use them for their own revolutionary purposes. There is another fact that we cannot afford to lose sight of, and that is that this revolutionary movement is absolutely and essentially anti-British. How is it that foreign ships are not held up in our ports to-day? It has been said here this morning that the shipping dis pute which now exists is due to a decrease of fi per month in the wages of British seamen.^ What are the wages paid to the seamen engaged on the foreign ships in our ports? Is any attempt being made to bring up, to the Australian standard, the wages of men engaged on these foreign ships ? Is it not a fact that every foreign vessel, whether she carries a white or coloured crew, can proceed without interruption around our Australian coast? These so-called industrial leaders .have not a word to say against them. Is it notsignificant that not only in Australia, but even in China, this movement is almost exclusively against British shipping? Is there any difficulty in ascertaining the cause? Is it not a fact that these revolutionaries are international in their organization and outlook? When they study the fabric of -the nations they see, in Britain, the one nation that is the keystone of the arch of our civilization to-day. Sap that nation, destroy it economically, and the whole arch of our European civilization falls to the ground. That is why this movement is not only revolutionary, but also anti-British. That is why we have these thrusts all the time at British industry, wherever it may be, while foreign industry is allowed to go untouched. We should be fools, aye, even worse, we should be cowards, if we shut our eyes to these facts, and allowed ourselves to be misled by the statement that the present industrial trouble is in the interests of British seamen. Those who are directing this movement have not at heart the interests of British seamen or any other Britishers. Their object is to destroy, not to build up. And so this Government is determined that, so long as it has the support of Parliament - and it believes it has - it will see this matter through. We are going to tell the people that this is  a. revolutionary movement, and, therefore, being extraordinary, can be dealt with only by extraordinary means. We are going to ask the Parliament of this country to provide us with the means. If the time comes when the powers in our hands are insufficient we shall ask the people to provide us with the means to effectually and completely remove for ever from Australia those revolutionary forces  which  would destroy the Commonwealth. 
 I listened to the Minister  (Senator Pearce),  as I always do, with a good deal of interest. I admire  Senator Pearce  for his audacity. He commenced by endeavouring to justify the action of the Government on constitutional grounds, and by saying - I admit he corrected himself afterwards - that the Commonwealth had sovereign power to make laws. The Commonwealth has power to enact laws only within the ambit of its Constitution. It is the States whose power is sovereign; the Commonwealth's legislative powers are directly confined to those set out in section 51 of the Constitution. It is extraordinary that the Minister should, in introducing the bill, endeavour to discredit three States of the Commonwealth. The Constitution specifically provides that the States and their laws and law courts shall be regarded in good faith; but the Minister, his colleagues, and supporters wish in this case to disregard ' all British precedents and British laws, and place the responsibility upon the State Governments merely because 1 they do not agree with the Commonwealth. The Minister deliberately - I say it advisedly - misrepresents the situation. He has led the Senate to believe that the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  did not receive any reply to his overtures to the Premier of New South Wales  (Mr. Lang).  I have not been in communication with  Mr. Lang;  I have not had one word concerning what he is doing. I have, . however, watched the whole procedure during the last week, and I am satisfied that when the Solicitor-General  (Sir Robert Garran)  interviewed  Mr. Lang,  the latter gave a full reply to every proposition placed before him. These replies  Sir Robert  Garran communicated by code, so the newspapers say, to the Prime Minister. Why, then, try by that skill for which we know the Minister is renowned, to misrepresent the position by saying that the courtesy of a reply was not vouchsafed by the Premier of New South Wales ? In dealing with constitutional law we have to remember that the States have full power to legislate on all subjects except those in respect of which they have definitely handed over the authority to the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth Parliament, as  Senator Pearce  has said, has authority to legislate upon powers conferred upon it by the States, and under n Constitution adopted by the democracy of Australia, the Constitution, I emphasize, provides for the preservation of liberty as we knew it before federation. A law recently passed by this Parliament unquestionably violates that principle of British law, which has been the sheet-anchor of British people for centuries. I suppose we may regard the British Constitution as an unwritten one. strengthened by precedent, developed from day to day, the mattner judgment of one generation being added to that of preceding generations until at the present time it is looked upon as the' most perfect instrument that has ever been devised for the government of a people. It represents the growth of centuries, and has as its starting point that charter which gives to every man the right of full, fair, and free trial. This Government seeks to take away that right. Notwithstanding  Senator Pearce's  statement, that the High Court alone has authority to interpret the Constitution, it is abundantly clear that when the people entered into the Federal compact, there was a definite understanding that all offenders against the laws of the Commonwealth should have the right of trial by jury. There is no getting away from this all-important fact. Honorable senators are probably as well acquainted with this provision of the Constitution as I ain. We have heard something about repudiation of agreements and about revolution. What condition could be worse than that created by legislation which denies to the people those liberties which they have hitherto enjoyed ? What can be worse than to deny to people the right of equality in the eyes of the law? So long as they have this safeguard of their privileges there is no need for revolution. Let mc put the position to  Senator Plain,  who has been recently appointed to this chamber. There was a time when he and 1 were pretty close together in the political arena. Perhaps he has forgotten. 1 have not. Under the law recently passed, if he became involved in any industrial disturbance, the Government could deport him to the country of his birth. If I. committed the same offence I could not be deported. Does  Senator Pearce  claim that this discrimination is permitted by the Constitution? .Does any honorable senator suggest that there is sanity in legislation of this character? 
Let us consider also the position of  Senator Lynch  and  Senator Plain.  Both, I understand, not being native born, could be deported.. It may be my pleasure, in a few months' time to order their deportation.  Senator Pearce  claims that the Government is acting within the Constitution in asking the Premiers of the various States to uphold this deportation law. He made much of the fact that the Constitution was adopted by the democracy of Australia. Let us see what the people voted for. Section 80 of the Constitution states) - 
The trial on indictment of any offence against any law of the Commonwealth shall be by. jury . . . 
Will the Minister deny that the offence with which, certain industrial leaders are to be charged are. against any law of the Commonwealth ? If the persons concerned have offended against the Commonwealth law, why is it that they are not to stand their trial in accordance with the provision in the Constitution, which I have just quoted ?  Mr. Lang,  bearing, as  Senator Pearce  well knows, a heavy load of administrative responsibility, believes that the powers conferred upon the Commonwealth Government by the Constitution are sufficient to meet the circumstances, and refuses to allow the State judges or the police authorities of New South Wales to participate in proceedings that will take from citizens of New South Wales privileges which they enjoyed prior to Federation. Let me read the whole of section 80 of the Constitution :  - 
The' trial on indictment of any offence against any lawof the Commonwealth shall be by jury, and every trial shall be held in the State where the offence was committed, and if the offence was not committed within any State the trial shall be held at such place or places as the Parliament prescribes. 

 Senator Pearce is complaining because  Mr. Lang  refuses to allow the judiciary of New South Wales to be employed in the prosecution of persons whose right to trial by jury, secured to them by the Constitution, is taken away from them.  Mr. Lang,  I have no doubt, has read the Constitution very carefully, and has decided that there is no occasion for impetuous or childish action, such as this Government contemplates. It would be well, therefore, if the Government reconsidered its position.  Senator Pearce  may contend that section 5 of the 
Constitution, which provides that all laws made by the Parliament of the Commonwealth shall be binding on the courts, judges, and people of every State, justifies the Government in asking the Premier of New South Wales to give effect to its request. On this point I should like to remind the Minister of what happened many years ago. For a short time I was associated with  Senator Pearce  in a Labour Ministry. During our term of office a constitutional question, somewhat similar to that now under consideration, cropped up between the State of Queensland and the Commonwealth Government. The then Premier of Queensland belonged to a. different political party. The views he held were somewhat similar to the views now held by  Senator Pearce,  who, I may add, took the same view that  Mr. Lang  takes now. 
There was a tramway strike in Brisbane, and, acting within the Constitution, the Premier of that State made application for Commonwealth assistance in accordance with the Constitution. 
 Senator Pearce's  interjection reminds me of the expedient adopted by Australian soldiers when on active service. One of our returned men told me that whenever the enemy flying machines were dropping bombs on Australian positions, and whenever shells from the big guns were making terrifying noises, soldiers sometimes would take shelter under bits of hessian or bagging, and feel a bit safer. The Minister when he hears the noise caused by a political bomb that threatens the safety of his position, promptly interjects and suggests that what is being said is not correct. He now makes the excuse that the Premier of Queensland did not make application to the GovernorGeneral, but to the head of the Government  (Mr. Fisher).  Well, we will put it that way. Let us see what was the Minister's attitude on that occasion. Section 119 of the Constitution provides - 
The Commonwealth shall protect every State against invasion, and, on the application of the executive Government of the State, against domestic violence. 
The Premier of Queensland was acting in much the same manner as the Prime Minister of the Commonwealth is acting to-day; that is to say, he was seeking to aggravate an industrial trouble and endeavoured to enlist the support of the Commonwealth Labour Government.  Senator Pearce,  posing as the strong man in the Labour Government, declined to give the protection asked for. He did what  Mr. Lang  is doing now. He exercised his own judgment. He declared that there was no occasion for Commonwealth interference and that there was no danger threatening law and order in Queensland. It would appear, however, that  Senator Pearce  has changed since then. He now holds the view then held by the Premier of New South Wales, whose responsibility to-day is as great as that which rested upon  Mr. Fisher  on the occasion to which I refer.  Senator Pearce  says that the High Court alone can decide matters affecting the Constitution'. The High Court, he claims, has already declared that the Government may deport citizens; that it may separate a husband from his wife and a father from his children. He declares, in effect, that, because an Australian citizen may have been born in Great Britain, he is inferior in the eyes of the law to a man born in Australia. 
No, I am referring to  Senator Pearce.  I am also referring to  Senator Guthrie,  who, by his support of this Government, is endeavouring to draw an invidious distinction, between an Australian citizen from another country and an Australian citizen born here. Nothing can be more degrading in any British community than legislation which discriminates between citizens of the country in its courts of law. 

 Sitting suspended from 1 to 2 p.m. 

When this Australian democracy entered into the Federation, it did so on the definite understanding given by section 80 of the Constitution' Act that - 
The trial on indictment of any offence against any law of the Commonwealth shall be" by jury, anc! every such trial shall be held in the State whore the offence was committed, and if the offence was not committed within any State, the trial shall lie held at such place or places as the Parliament prescribes. 
It ill-becomes  Senator Pearce,  and more so the Prime Minister (Mr.' Bruce), to attack a gentleman in the position  ot  Mr. Lang,  who has to consider something more than the technicalities and the cobwebs of the law. He has first to consider the well-being of his State. This attack is made by what is really a revolutionary Government. If we went amongst either the best-informed or the worst-informed  people from one end of the Commonwealth to the other, I do not believe that we should find a human being who would be prepared to sacrifice that foundation stone of British Liberty, Magna Charta, which grants to every man the right to be tried by a jury of his peers, after having an accusation made against him and being given an opportunity to justify himself.  Senator Pearce  reached a, stage of dramatic utterance that I had not previously seen him. reach when he said, " Are we- to shut our eyes to the fact that these men are threatening the very existence of the British Empire?" What has he been doing for the last ten years? Have similar conditions not existed during the whole of that period? Is it only on a calm Saturday afternoon that the right honorable gentleman wakes up to the fact that he can shut his eyes no longer? Whether a person offends directly against the law, or takes action within the law in such a way as to disorganize the industries of this country, the laws of the Commonwealth give to the Government sufficient power to mete out punishment. If that power is not sufficient, members of the Government should possess the necessary ingenuity to enlarge it. 
They have not. They have departed from what we customarily call courts of justice by the establishment of a board to mete out punishment. That board is repugnant, not to one, but to every section of the community. I know that there is one section which will say, " Tom Walsh, Jock Garden, and Johannsen ought to be sent out of the country." A similar cry has been raised whenever there has been industrial trouble, but Australia has progressed, for a hundred years without such drastic legislation. I stated yesterday that one of the members of this board is an official in the Public Service. What will be his position ? If he finds a man guilty,- it will be said of him that he could not help doing so because he is under the control of a Government which might take from him his job. If, on the other band, he brings in a verdict of not guilty, it will be said of him that he is afraid of losing his job when another Government comes into office. Even though it had reached such a low level as to take away from British subjects the right conferred upon them by Magna Charta, surely the Government could have found for appointment to this board some one who was accustomed to meting out justice. The matter is of sufficient importance to warrant the appointment of the judges of the High Court. Nothing is more serious than an- infringement of the rights of men. » 
I believe that he was. 
He holds a position in the Public Service. A judge should not only be an upright man, he should also be above suspicion. In the minds of those who are accused under this legislation there will be the grave suspicion that they will not receive justice, because one of the men who is trying them is dependent upon the Government for his employment. I have no complaint to make against these men who have been appointed to the board; I do not know them. But I do think that when a Government departs from the beaten track, when it leaves that safe path which Britons have followed for 700 years, we are entitled to something better than what is now proposed. Let us look at what was the idea in the minds of those people who understood the foundation on which British liberty is based. Chapter 39 of Magna Charta provides^ - 
No freeman shall be arrested or detained in prison, or deprived of his freehold, or banished, or in any way 'molested, and we will not set forth against him, nor send against him, unless by the lawful command of his peers, and by the law of the land. 
Has anything happened lately to warrant dispensing with -that splendid safeguard of British liberty ? There has been industrial trouble. ' What raised this Govern ment to its present pitch of anger? The Inchcape crowd reduced British seamen's wages by £1 a month. That aroused in the minds of Senators Pearce and Lynch, and other persons, the idea that this is the time to ca3t aside the charter of our liberties. They say, " We must punish men who resist a reduction of wages ; they cannot be tolerated in Australia." Inchcape, to whom they bow the knee, is the head of a shipping combine. The Government and its supporters propose to dispense with what, to my mind, has been the one thing that has elevated British people to the position that they occupy today. It has been responsible for a reverence and respect for the laws of this and other British' countries that even the fiercest party feeling cannot break down. What has enabled our courts to be held in high respect by the whole community? It is the fact that the judges have never been partisans. The duty of a judge is to direct the jury as to the meaning of the law, and to advise it. Should his advice on any occasion be tinged with partisanship against an accused person, there is the right of appeal. He must act impartially between the accused and the prosecution. All that will now go by the board. This tribunal will act as prosecutor, judge, and jury. What can it bring upon the nation? Nothing but contempt. How deeper does that contempt grow when we know that it is only the British-born section of the community that can be summoned to appear before this board.  Senator Elliott,  being Australian born, will be free from its operations. I shall enjoy the same freedom.  Senator Lynch  may be summoned to appear before it I hope that he will, and that he will be sent out of this country. I should like to be a member of the board that ordered his deportation. Unfortunately, Senators Pearce and Wilson own Australia as their birthplace. I still believe that we shall be able to lay an indictment of conspiracy against  Senator Pearce  and  Mr. Bruce  for their action in connexion with the sale of the Commonwealth Woollen Mills. They will be given a fair trial in the courts of the land. We shall not require the services of a board to convict them, because we have evidence that will prove either criminal neglect or wilful corruption in. connexion with the sale of these mills at an unfair price. We shall send Senators Lynch and Reid back to their own country under  the legislation that they are assisting to pass. I am endeavouring to impress upon the minds of honorable senators the futility of this legislation. I realize that this bill is merely supplementary to that obnoxious measure which takes from those Britishers who live in Australia the safeguards of liberty provided by Magna Charta. Chapter 40 of that document says - 
To none will we sell, to none will we deny or delay right or justice. 
Writing upon this matter,  Sir James  Mcintosh, in his  History of England,  said - 
In these clauses of the charter are clearly contained the habeas corpus and the trial by jury, the most effectual security against oppression which the wisdom of men has hitherto been able to devise. 
I again appeal to honorable senators to pause before dispensing with what has been a safeguard of the liberties of Britishers for centuries.  TaswellLangmead.  writing of the clauses of Magna Charta in  English Constitutional History,  said - 
There is a breadth about the simple language employed as if those who wrote it felt that they were asserting universal principles of justice. Henceforth it must have been a clear principle of our Constitution that no man can be detained in prison without a trial. 
Does  Senator Elliott,  who is a trained lawyer, agree with legislation under which men may be detained in prison without a trial, or tried by a board that has been selected with the object of convicting them ? Blackstone, in his  Commentaries,  Vol. IV., page 424, states - 
It protected every individual of the nation in the free enjoyment of his life, his liberty, and his property, unless declared to be_ forfeited by the judgment of his peers. 
I can imagine Senators Pearce, Wilson, and Elliott saying, " I do not know whether Tom Walsh has any property, but whether he has or not, we are going to send him out of this country," Creasy, in his  English Constitution,  page 151,. said - 
The ultimate effect of this chapter was to give and to guarantee full protection for per=ons and property to every human being that breathes English air. 
They have that protection while they breathe the English air, but when they come to this proud dominion they are treated, as aliens; the Magna Charta of their liberties ceases to have effect. 
I do not know whether it would or not, but I do not know of any British Government that has wanted to do anything contrary to law. I believe that governments have the power to do what they will, and that there is even a higher law than the statute law to guard the interests of any country. Honorable senators opposite have been pleased to pose as the props of the Empire during the last ten years. They have said that if they are removed from the Government bench the Empire will collapse - at least in so far as Australia's participation in it is concerned. But what is the position to-day?  Senator Pearce  has said that a man who emigrated to Australia from Britain, and has lived here for 30 years, is still an immigrant, and as such may be deported. That is the attitude of these liployalists. We have had to listen to a lot of their cant about the Empire and their love for it; but honorable members of my party have stood solidly as one body in their desire to make Australian laws conform to British laws. 
Order !  Senator McHugh  has flung across the chamber a most objectionable epithet. 
The honorable senator will hold his tongue while I am addressing the Senate. 
I should have said "the honorable senator will remain silent." The meaning, however, is the same.  Senator McHugh  must withdraw his objectionable epithet. 
I did not understand  Senator Elliott  to say that. 
Order ! 
The trial on indictment of any offence against any law of the Commonwealth shall ha by jury, and every such trial shall be held in* the State where the offence was committed, and if the offence was not committed within any State the trial shall be held at such place or places as the Parliament prescribes. 
Fisher as Prime Minister. Section 80 provides a charter of liberty. Those great men,  Sir Henry  Parkes and  Sir Samuel  "Griffith, who put that charter in the Constitution could not foresee that any government would seek to convict any person without an indictment, or that any breach of the law would not be tried in a proper way. Yet that is just what the present Government is doing. Its action will receive full condemnation at the hands of the people of this country as soon as the question is put fairly before them. I join  Mr. Charlton  in issuing a challenge to the Government to take the matter to the country at once and let the people decide whether they prefer these new-fangled methods of the Bruce-Page combination or the wellbeaten track of constitutional procedure that has held good in Great Britain for the last 700 years. 
The ' right honorable the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  has given evidence during this debate of a desire to fasten on to the slightest excuse for the legislation now put forward. In the first place, when  Senator Gardiner  spoke of the request made by the Premier of Queensland to a Commonwealth Labour Government of which he was a member for military assistance, he raised the quibble that the State Premier did not take the proper course of approaching the Commonwealth Government. A moment or two ago he endeavoured to shelter behind another quibble, and contended that  Senator Gardiner  had omitted to mention the word "indictment" in his eloquent reference to the right of trial by jury, as given by section SO of the Constitution. If I were to follow the puerile reasoning - if it be reasoning - of the Leader of the Senate, I would ask him to tell me the meaning of the word " indictment." If it does not mean that some one has been charged with committing an offence against the laws of the land, I should like to know what it does mean. Under this bill, called the Peace Officers Bill - I could give it another designation, and probably I shall attempt to do so in the committee stage - certain men will be brought before  a  board which has been appointed by the Government to try them for an offence against a provision of what I call the Deportation Act passed by this Parliament a few weeks ago. If that is not an indictment, I do not know what an indictment is, and I venture to say that the constitutional authorities of the Commonwealth will have some difficulty in discovering another meaning for it. I say advisedly that this Deportation Act, as I term it, is  ultra vires,  inasmuch as it clashes with section 80 of the Constitution. Does  Senator Pearce  contend that the men whom the Government desire to deport will have no 'right of appeal? The Constitution cannot be nullified by the mere passing of an act by this Parliament. It cannot be altered except by the passage of a bill through both Houses and its acceptance at a referendum of the people. The Deportation Act proposes not only to nullify, but also to suspend, section SO of the Constitution, which gives every citizen of the Commonwealth the right to a trial by jury. I know one member of the board which has been appointed, and before which intended deportees will be brought even before they have been convicted under any law of the land. I refer to  Mr. Canning.  I knew him in Western Australia, and I met him in Sydney recently. I do not know the other gentlemen appointed, but I know that, no matter what may be the offence of the persons brought before it, the board must, and I venture to say will, decide that they should be deported. I want to elaborate the important point stressed by  Senator Gardiner,  and that is the distinction made between Australian-born citizens and citizens of Australia not born in Australia. Here, again, the Constitution has been violated. Every adult who comes to Australia and resides here for six months has a right to a vote for this Parliament. When we extend to any person the right to the franchise, we give him rights of citizenship equal to those of the Australian-born. I do not know why this distinction has been made in this legislation. I venture to say it will not stand at law. I know that this bill will be passed, because there is on the other side of the chamber just as there is in another place a servile majority at the disposal of the Government. 
 I did not hear exactly what the honorable senator said. 
 The honorable senator is not in order in discussing what happened in another place. 
This act and all laws made by the Parliament of the Commonwealth under the Constitution shall be binding on the courts, judges,  and  people of every State, and of every part of the Commonwealth, notwithstanding anything in the laws of any State, and the laws of the Commonwealth shall be enforced, and shall obtain on all ships, the Queen's ships of war excepted, whose first port of clearance or port of destination is in the Commonwealth. 
I was under the impression, when this measure was introduced this morning, that the sitting of the Senate would terminate at the ordinary time, namely, 3.30 p.m., to enable members of this chamber to leave for their homes by the afternoon trains. The Minister in charge of it  (Senator Pearce)'  presented the case for the bill, and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Gardiner)  in due course, as was his duty replied. I thought this would end the discussion. For some reason, his first lieutenant  (Senator Needham)  apparently thought that his leader had not put the views of the Opposition quite so effectively as he might have done, and . accordingly he occupied a certain amount of time in supplementing  Senator Gardiner's  remarks. In other words, he sought to  improve upon the job which his leader had essayed. We are now within twenty minutes of the time when, according to our' Standing Orders, the Senate should adjourn. It is utterly hopeless for me to compress a fractional part of what I wish to say on this subject within that short space of time. The Ministers, their supporters, and, for that matter, every member of the Opposition should have reasonable time to expound their views on a subject of such rare importance as this. 1 call it a measure of rare importance because in my experience of this Parliament, extending now over a period of some eighteen years, I cannot recall the introduction of a similar bill. As is well known, the reasons for its introduction are exceptional. Therefore, there is need for an exceptional remedy. 
In the circumstances, it is well that members of this chamber should exercise the authority which has been conferred upon them by the Constitution. It is also as well to remind honorable senators of the great obligation that rests on their shoulders. This chamber must face the * position and discharge its legislative duties in co-operation with another place. No other institution can take the place of the Senate. In view of the special position occupied by this chamber, its members should possess certain qualifications for the proper discharge of their duties. I said just now that the task before the Senate was one of rare importance. In the first place, we must have courage to face the problem before us, because, whatever may be said to the contrary, a grave problem confronts the Commonwealth Parliament at the present time. In the second place, we must have the quality of toleration; that is to say, we must be tolerant in the expression of our own views and tolerant with  respect to views of honorable senators opposite. In the third place, we must exhibit that spirit of good-will without which we cannot approach the performance of our task with any degree of confidence. Starting with these essential qualifications as a body, we should be able to discharge our duty with credit to ourselves and to the satisfaction of the people. I repeat that the problem with which we have to deal is one of rare occurrence. The present deplorable situation is the creation of some misguided people in this country. -I remind honorable senators that we are beset at present, and may continue to be for some time, by many almost insuperable difficulties. We are a handful of population in charge of a continent set in a lonely sea. We have to develop and preserve it, and hand it down, with all the freedom that its people now enjoy, to those who come after us. We are confronted with difficulties which will tax all our ingenuity, and the finest qualities that we possess. But when to those difficulties, for which nature or circumstance is responsible, we have added another that is created by some misguided citizens; when we see the Commonwealth Government, which is the supreme authority, opposed by a subordinate government, we must admit that we are faced with a situation of no mean order. The magnitude and peril of that situation will exact the severest tribute of those qualities which are necessary to enable us to discharge our duty fully, fearlessly, and adequately. We have been told that this measure, and the act of which it is a counterpart, may later be found to be  ultra vires  and worthless. The meanest intelligence, however, is capable of grasping the fact that so long as any measure that has been passed by the Commonwealth Parliament remains law, it must not be violated by any individual or subordinate government. When the people of the Commonwealth decided to federate 25 years ago, they imagined that they were creating an institution that would secure for them peace, order, and good government on a wider and much more effective scale than they then enjoyed. Yet to-day the position is that a law which was passed in the most deliberate manner by the elected representatives of the people, is to be either brought into contempt by some subordinate government or allowed to remain a. dead letter. Was such a state of affairs ever contemplated? On the contrary, it was considered that any law passed by the Commonwealth Parliament would remain on the statute-book and be enforced until it was repealed. We now find ourselves challenged. When a law, which has been placed upon the law tablets of this Commonwealth, is being disregarded and repudiated by a State Government, it is time for us to say whether we intend to discharge our duties or become the menial, subservient tools of that or any other State Government. Either we must fearlessly and courageously discharge the duty that has been cast upon us, or repudiate our trust and go back to the people with the honest and frank statement that we are afraid to do what we were sent here to do. I am not afraid to perform my duty, and it is because I am of this opinion that I support the Government, which holds a similar view. Do honorable senators who applaud the action of the New South Wales Government say that the whole, which is the Commonwealth, is subordinate to its part ? Do they mean that the part should be greater than the whole? Do they mean that the tail shall wag the dog, instead of the dog wagging the tail? If they mean that the States, which have been enjoined to fulfil the sacred constitutional obligation of helping the Commonwealth to execute its laws, are justified in opposing those laws, the logical conclusion is that the part is greater than the whole, and that the tail ought to wag the dog. I believe that we have not yet arrived at that stage, and that that does npt fit in with the sentiments which were held when the Federation was established. 
I have said enough to indicate that a serious problem confronts Australia. Some gentlemen who criticize, this proposal of the Government say that no difficulty, no problem, exists; that we should go on as we have been going regardless of what is happening in the industrial field. What is happening ? Not only is the law of the Commonwealth being flagrantly broken, but the well-being of the citizens of this country, that this Government was created to conserve, is being trampled under foot. The facts are very simple. We are being asked to share in a dispute that had its origin a long way from Australia. I go further, and say that we are being asked to accept the largest and greatest share in that dispute, to decide which a mere fragmentary part of the British seamen have chosen Australia as the battleground. What has this country done that it should be made the battleground for the settlement of a dispute that was created outside Australia? Have we not troubles enough of our own without being embroiled in one to which we are not a party? This is a very serious matter. The shipping industry is at the head of almost every industrial and social activity. Some persons are inclined to minimize the trouble, and say that it is only a tinpot affair. It is nothing of the kind, lt is the most serious maritime trouble that has occurred in the history of this country. I have here figures that I received recently from the Customs Department, which will give some idea of the magnitude of the trouble. During the year 1924 the amount of tonnage entered and cleared in all Australian ports by ships from the United Kingdom, was not less than 2,939,210. Foreign shipping was responsible for 1,026,871 tons, and Australian shipping for 486,170 tons. The total tonnage of shipping in , the Commonwealth last year was 4,911,136 tons. Shipping from Great Britain contributed no less than 60 per cent, of that total. Foreign shipping was confined to very respectable limits - 25 per cent, of the total - and Australian shipping was responsible for only 10 per cent. The answer to the statement that this is only a small affair lies in those figures. We are dependent upon British shipping. Therefore, the present holdup affects the lives, movements; and destiny of every citizen in the Commonwealth. 
I shall deal with that point directly. Let us look at the way in which British shipping is distributed the world over. I have here figures that have been taken from a publication of the House of Commons, covering the six months ended June last. The total tonnage of British shipping entered and cleared was 33,000,000 tons. To northern Europe the total was 12,000,000 tons, central and eastern Mediterranean ports 2,000,000 tons; North America, 5,000,000 tons; and Australia, 1,000,000 tons. What I desire to make clear is that the British seamen, and particularly those instigating them, are trying to make Australia their battle-ground, although less than 3 per cent, of the total British shipping enters our ports. Why should they not go to northern Europe? But no; Australia must be selected. Why is Australia chosen in preference to northern Europe? It is well known that British shipping is entering Russian ports to-day, and that a big trade in wheat and timber is being done with that country. Russia, apparently, would have been an excellent battleground. The reason that it was not chosen is that the Russian Government, when it is not penalizing, imprisoning, and putting to death persons who disagree with its red programme, is working hard to suppress strikes. A man who engages in a strike in Russia under the Bolshevik regime is in a more parlous condition than any one in Europe. If he says, " Boo ! " it is the last " Boo " he says. The Russian Bolshevik Government is firmly determined to keep the people at work. That is the reason why Russia was not made the battle-ground of this dispute. 
But has not Australia enough troubles of her own? Of course she has. 1 contend that every country ought to settle its own troubles in its own country. Every country ought to consume its own smoke. The British seamen decided to make Australia the battle-ground for their dispute, for the all-sufficient reason that it was the best place for -them to come to deal with it. Their leaders knew that they would find a sympathetic atmosphere here. This dispute, has been engineered carefully fully by men who ought really to have adopted an altogether different attitude. It is being fostered now by men who are totally opposed to the best interests of Labour. Unfortunately, some honorable gentlemen in this chamber arc shirking their duty; they know that they ought to speak out against the strikers, and those who are conducting the strike. But they are not doing so, for they fear it might mean their defeat at the coming elections. For this reason they will not say what they believe in their hearts to be true. They prefer to allow these Bolsheviks to upturn our whole legislative system. The men who have engineered this strike left their own country - probably for their country's good - and came here with a deliberate intention to destroy our industrial peace. 
These disturbers of bur peace ought not to be allowed to con tinue their destructive work. They ought ' to be sent back to their own country. 
Will this small boy keep quiet? Let him go away and learn something. 
 Senator McHugh  is here by accident. If the combined imagination of his family for the lastten generations could have been exercised in one great effort it could never have imagined that one of the family would be returned to this Senate by the votes of the people.  His  election was an accident. 
When I decided to leave Ireland, I had the choice of every country in the world. ' The honorable senator had no . choice. To use a Shakespearean expression, he is like a mewling and puking infant. 
I am glad that the Government has decided to do its duty towards these disturbers of the peace, and I am glad, also, that the overwhelming bulk of the workmen in Australia, and the trade unionists particularly, are behind the Government. They realize that this action is being taken in their interests. Let us hear what one of their own leaders has to say on this dispute. In an interview which appeared in the  Argus  newspaper on the 27th August,  Mr. Moate,  the leader of the Maritime Cooks and Stewards Union, made some interesting remarks. The paragraph reads as follows : - 
Asked whether his union intended to care for the stewards of the  Euripides,  Mr. Moate  said the stewards had disobeyed the instructions of their union, and he was not going to bring his union into conflict with the British union by countenancing such disobedience. He knew how strongly he -would feel if a similar thing were done with his men in Great Britain. The stewards of the  Euripides  had apparently no right to leave their vessel, and having taken this step independently their future welfare while ashore was their own affair. If the British seamen and stewards had a grievance and wanted to strike,  Mr. Moate  added, they should have aired their grievance and conducted their campaign in England, not, as they were doing now, embarrassing the Australian unions by making an unofficial strike here. 

 Mr. Moate is a champion of the workers. I have a few quotations to make from some of the strike leaders. I do not desire to give them an advertisement, so I will try to avoid calling them by their names. I will refer to the first one as  Mr.  XYW.  In the  Argus  of the 22nd August he is reported to have " advised the British seamen to leave their ships and insist upon their right." A motion was agreed to at a meeting of the seamen in Sydney, in which the men repudiated  Mr. Havelock  Wilson, the executive of their union, and all the agreements entered into by them with the shipping company.  Mr. Johannsen  - I have said his name after all - in addressing the men on that occasion, advised them to follow the example of the Australian seamen, who were prepared to adopt any measures in order to secure a victory.  Mr. Garden  spoke in favour of shorter hours and a good time. He declared, "I am a bolshevik. Who would not be ? " It is most unfortunate that the seamen have been misguided enough to take the advice of men like these in preference to that of  Mr. Moate  and their own leaders. It is hard to believe that they have turned their backs upon that grand old champion of the seamen, that man who has grown grey and withered in the seamen's cause, that man who stands second only to Samuel Plimsoll in his championship of  the seamen -  Mr. Havelock  Wilson.  Mr. 
Havelock Wilson and the executive of the  unIon were opposed to the men striking, but, unfortunately a remnant of the men, preferred to accept the advice of the wreckers in Australia rather than that of their own leaders. Unfortunately, also, they are being encouraged by those who should know better. We can imagine what  Senator Barnes  would say if a section of the Australian Workers Union flouted his authority and denounced him. If the Western Australian section did so, for instance,  Senator Barnes  would be over there in a few hours looking for the heads of those who had been so disloyal. Ishould like to see how  Senator Gardiner1  and some other honorable senators opposite would deal with men who had floutedtheir union executive. They would be intensely annoyed, it would be only human. Let them then consider what must be the feelings of  Mr. Havelock  Wilson, who for 50 years has been the great champion of the seamen, and has done more to improve their conditions than any other man, with the exception of Samuel Plimsoll. 1 realize, and have always said, that trade unions are the bulwark of the workers. It is distressing te see trade-union leaders like  Mr. Havelock  Wilson denounced and betrayed, and it is distressing that union leaders in Australia, who ought to know better, are aid-1 ing and abetting' those who are leading the betrayal.  Mr. Johannsen  is also reported in the  Argus  newspaper as follows : - 
He was of opinion that whatever was said in favour of the British Empire was detrimental to the interests of the British seamen. 
I assert that  the Government is only doing what  Mr. Havelock  Wilson wants it to do. It is supporting trade unionism. Those who are fomenting this disturbance have made no secret of the fact that their intention and desire is to undermine the British Empire - that commonwealth of free nations on which the freedom of the whole world stands. That lies behind this insidious, bolshevistic effort in Australia to overturn the British Em-; pire, so that the emissaries of the communists in England may have their own way. Everything that has been said or done in the history of the British Empire has never had my approval. But side by side with that qualification I say, as one who has roamed through many lands, and been in many countries, where I could, if I chose, have stopped, that I have come back to this country with the firm belief and conviction that there is nowhere else under the sun where a person has a greater degree of freedom to work out his temporal destiny than in this fair land of ours under the Southern Cross. And when these men say that they are acting in the interests of the seamen they are liars. Havelock Wilson is my witness when he says that the men who aid and abet this strike are traitors to the cause of trade unionism. The underlings who are promoting this strike are only in their suckling tradeunion babyhood. They know nothing about the meaning of trades unionism. All that they have gained has been under the leadership of that grand old trusted leader of the workers in Great Britain, Havelock Wilson.. What he has had the courage ' to say is that which some men in this chamber are so foreign to that if they met it on the road they would not know it. He has had the courage to say, not what others have thought, but what he has had in his own mind. As Milton said, " Give me the liberty to know, to feel, and to express the" thoughts of my mind above all liberties." That is what we want, the glorious liberty to express the thoughts that are in our minds, and if by some modern miracle we could compel honorable senators opposite to state what we know is in their minds instead of prattling in opposition to this bill, they would be supporting it. We know it. I have not gone out of the way to get this evidence. These men have come to me spontaneously, and told me what they think of so-and-so, and they have said almost in these words, "Why not do your duty?" Yet now we are doing it we find them with their tongues in their cheeks attacking us, and opposing us for doing so. No wonder that great central spirit of the Trench Revolution, Danton, said, when sent to the guillotine by his old friend, Robespierre, " Better a man be a fisherman, than meddle in the art of governing men." No wonder Madame Roland said - 
O liberty ! liberty ! how many crimes are committed in thy name ! 
T might paraphrase that, and say, " Oh labour, glorious labour, but latter-day labour, why hast thou become the ignoble patron of hypocrisy and cant?" It has become the ignoble patron of hypocrisy and cant. In its heart of hearts it knows that the bill is right, and that the Government's action cannot be challenged; it knows that the Government has the support of all that is good, and best, and of all the brightest intelligence among the leaders of the British seamen, yet it seeks to deny it. And honorable senators talk about taking up the cudgels.  Senator Barnes  never dreamed of taking up the cudgels for the unfortunate foreign seamen engaged in 25 per cent, of the Australian trade. He talks about the brotherhood of man and the fatherhood of women. 
Certainly. I  am  very sorry. 
In trying to carry on the political work of the country, we have to contend against the effort so repeatedly made by gentlemen who obtain high and honorable positions in Parliament not to confine themselves to actual facts, but- to rely on whatever Heaven has blessed them with, and blessed them very stingily, in the shape of inventive faculties. They invent stories about this Government and the party in power, and about what they propose to do. It is only an adaptation of the ancient practice of poisoning wells in advance of an army. Chivalry has existed through all the ages, but there have always been an inferior few. Just as in the chivalrous old age a few indulged in the practice of poisoning wells in front of an advancing army, so that the gallant heroes of those armies could not stand against a most insignificant foe, to-day we have men engaged in the practice of poisoning ahead the wells of public opinion. In fact, it is the chief stock-in-trade of some honorable members of this Parliament. What are they saying? I never make an assertion without giving chapter and verse for it. I hope I shall always keep my feet firmly planted on the granite base of truth. When these men are not engaged in praising themselves, and in taking credit for virtues they have never possessed, they are formulating proposed actions on the part of others. Among a long list of prospective political misdemeanours they attribute to this party are the following: - (1) We are in favour of a reduction of wages; (2) we are killing trade  unionism; (3) we are doing violence to the political susceptibilities of a State of the Commonwealth; (4) we are supporting the action of Lord Inchcape, the shipping master of the Old Country. Why is this done? It is done with the avowed object of poisoning public opinion against us, in the hope that when the time comes' they will get a verdict in their favour. There is not a shadow of truth in any of their accusations. It is a malicious lie to say that we .are in favour of a reduction in wages, when no other government has gone out of its way more than the present Government has done to raise the standard of the workers in this country. We heard prophecies that all the legislation placed on the statute-book by the Labour party would be scrapped by the present Government. That Labour legislation, stands intact today. But what Government passed the Superannuation Act, increased the oldage pensions, and appointed board after board to give better treatment to the public servants? It was the National Government that did it. And when it was a matter of amending the Navigation Act to remedy the grievances of seamen, it was the same Government that fathered it. Yet these facts do not stop these gentlemen from saying that we are the enemies of the workers. Let me recall the hollow hypocrisy of this allegation apart from its untruth. Yesterday  Senator Gardiner  said that of the total population of the Commonwealth, 99 per cent, were manual workers, and the odd 1 per cent, he called the moneyed class. I am not disposed to controvert the honorable senator's statement of the case, but is not the position which he occupies in this chamber a sad commentary upon his policy. If what he said in the past was in the interests of that 99 per cent, of the population he should be on this side of the chamber to-day, and we should be sitting in opposition. But we are in power, and without telling any lies in order to get into power. 
Next, as to the question of killing trade unionism. What has not been done by the Government to foster trade unionism ? In every contract issued from a Government department there is a special provision enjoining on the contractor the payment of wages in keeping with the proper standards of labour rule. What is wrong with that? It was said by an old Roman philosopher that his enemy lived by crime. If ever a political party has lived in these latter days by systematic lying it is the party opposite. 
I withdraw it. 
I submit that the withdrawal by  Senator Lynch  is not sufficient. 
Ave know, is that moral quality which enables one to face great odds against the success of a venture. If, by honorable senators' own showing, we are going to our doom and are to be relegated to obscurity, we must have courage to embark on a plan which invites public hostility. Therefore, we cannot be charged, in the one breath, with lack of courage, and at the same time with having it. If we are engaged in an effort, in the face of hostile action, and are likely to be condemned, we must possess courage to engage in it. Yet we bave the statement from Honorable senators opposite that we do not possess courage. Next comes the statement from these political soothsayers opposite that we are rushing to our doom and are digging our own graves. Why, then, do they rush forward to take the spades away from us ? Why do they not let us dig our own graves in peace and certainly without abuse ? They should say " Hear, hear !" to us, instead of rushing forward and wresting the spades from our hands. In the action the Government is taking it is looking neither to the left nor to the right, and, notwithstanding what may be said to the contrary, it is doing it3 duty in the interests of the people of this country. It has been given a trust which it must honour, and the' course it has adopted in this instance is a recognition of that responsibility. The public welfare has been grossly outraged, and law-abiding, honorable, and deserving citizens of Australia have been thwarted and injured at every turn. A point has been reached where the men engaged in the shipping trade cannot seek an engagement without interference. Many are unable to obtain the wherewithal to provide themselves and their families, with the food they need, the clothes they must wear, and the beverages they require. An influence has been operating between the citizen and his objective. We have a Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act on the statute-book - a legal tablet placed there by a Labour government - and every strike which has occurred since that act was passed has been illegal Honorable senators opposite and those with whom they are associated outside have kept their tongues in their cheeks, and have actually assisted in the violation of that law. The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act is one which you,  Mr. President,  and others who were the fathers of the Labour movement, assisted to place upon the statute-book. But after having converted public opinion to the necessity for such legislation, those whom it was to benefit openly flouted it. The act provides a means whereby the workers in Australia can obtain higher wages and improved conditions, but those who should have been its stoutest champions have, stood idly by and allowed it to be torn to shreds, so to speak, without uttering a word of protest. . It has nearly always been the representatives of the powerful unions who at certain salient points on the highway of our industrial and civic endeavour have openly prevented men from obeying the law which they so keenly sought in earlier years. . The financial and numerical strength of the more powerful unions was such that the weaker and poorer organizations had to suffer in consequence of selfish action involving an interruption in industrial effort. What was once regarded as the bulwark of trade unionism has been trampled in the dust. Those who have fomented these troubles have never been denounced by honorable senators opposite and those outside with whom they are working. Present conditions must cease. I know what our arbitration laws have done, and, as  Senator Needham  knows, I took my share of the responsibility of carrying out that unpopular task of telling men to respect its awards, although it might have meant a reduction in wages.  I was told that my action would bring about my political downfall, but instead of listening to these malicious liars who wished to bring about my defeat, the electors returned me to the State Parliament, and later to this Parliament on several successive occasions. 
I recognize that the Government is confronting a situation of no mean proportions, but it must be faced. We have been informed that in consequence of the action which it is suggested may possibly be taken, certain individuals will be sent out of the country. Do honorable senators really believe that that will be punishment? Wherein lies the penalty? Have we not been told over and over again, by persons whose names I need not mention, that they are making an avowed and determined effort to overturn the institutions of this country? 
After the speech of the last  speaker,  I hope we shall get down to a cooler and saner atmosphere. During the hour that I have listened to  Senator Lynch  he has said very little that has any bearing whatever upon the measure before the Senate. This bill has a close relation to measures passed by Parliament a short time ago, one of which was an amending Immigration Bill, which gave the Government power to deport certain persons. The Government finds, however, that the Government of New South Wales declines to do that which it desires, because that Government and the people supporting it will not stand for anything that is anti-Australian, antiBritish, or antediluvian and foreign to the fundamental principles of British justice. I regret that during the discussion on the Immigration Bill and the measure now before us honorable senators opposite engaged in personalities instead of dealing with the principles which those measures embody. Why should there be any necessity to introduce this bill, or to place an amending immigration act upon the statute-book ? It is true that there was a dispute amongst seamen engaged in the Australian coasting trade, and the Government, instead of assisting to settle it in a peaceful way, declared that it would have to be a fight to a finish. It did nothing to bring about a peaceful settlement. It was left to industrial leaders in this and another State to intervene, and as a result of negotiations an understanding was reached under which it was agreed that no more strikes should occur in the coasting trade for two years. The present dispute, however, is between seamen engaged on British ships and British ship-owners. A number of seamen on British ships in Australian waters decided, of their own volition, to strike against a reduction of 20s. per month in their wages. Since then, the names of office-bearers of the Australian Seamen's Union have been mentioned in connexion with the dispute. The speeches of honorable senators supporting the Government have been made for the purpose of inflaming the passions and prejudicing the minds of the people against the executive officers of the Australian Seamen's Union. It is not proposed, I presume, to summon them before the board for anything that happened in respect of a dispute that was settled a few weeks ago. For what reason, then, are they to be required to appear before the board? Are we to understand that any office-bearer of an industrial organization who sympathizes with and pledges himself to support men on strike engaged in overseas vessels is to be brought before the board. That, apparently, is the charge that will be levelled against them. They are not responsible for the dispute. A manifesto issued by the  President  of the Seamen's Union, published recently in the daily press, stated that the British seamen in Sydney and at other Australian ports acted spontaneously. Having ceased work, they approached the local Seamen's Union with a request for assistance, but made it clear that they had determined on their course of action before approaching the local body. The British seamen ceased work without any advice from officials of the Australian Seamen's Union. It is true that, when appealed to, the Australian seamen pledged their support to their British comrades. I know it has been said that the officials of the union referred to really run the organization. The same statement is made of every industrial organization whenever a big dispute takes place. In this case, proof to the contrary is readily available. The following resolution, carried at a meeting of seamen engaged in the coasting trade at Newcastle, was published in the daily press a few days ago:- 
That we will do everything in our power to frustrate any attempt to take our leaders out of the country and would suggest that 80 per cent, of the Australian seamen should be deported, because their leaders have only carried out the seamen's instructions in what they have done to support their comrades overseas. 
A similar resolution, carried at a meeting in Adelaide, shows clearly that the great majority at least of members of the Seamen's Union are of the same opinion as their responsible leaders, namely, that British seamen on strike in Australia are deserving of sympathy and every consideration. Honorable senators supporting the Government seem to have lost sight of the fact that our existing courts of law are still available. It will be admitted, I suppose, that even  garroters,  bushrangers, and murderers are entitled to a fair and free trial by jury. If found not guilty, they are acquitted, but if found guilty they are adequately punished. If existing courts of law in Australia are competent to deal with men charged with the crimes I have mentioned, surely they are competent to deal with offences - that is, if any have been committed - that may be charged against men associated with the present industrial trouble. Up to the time when this Government took office, the belief was entertained that all men were equal before the law. Recent legislation passed by this Government has shattered that belief. It makes invidious distinctions. It denies to men engaged in industrial disputes that right of fair trial conceded to  garroters,  bushrangers, and murderers. Officers of the Seamen's Union, enjoying the confidence of their fellows, merely carry out their instructions. Does any honorable senator believe that, if the officers are brought before this biased board and, if convicted, deported, other men will not be appointed to the positions filled by the deported leaders, and that the organization will not go on as before. If Australian born men are appointed to the vacancies, they cannot be deported. 
I have yet to learn that the leaders of the Australian Seamen's Union are foreigners in the true sense of the term. It has been left to this Government to define a foreigner as a man born in Britain, notwithstanding that he may have lived in this country for 30 years, reared a family here, and obeyed its laws. We are now told that if a Britisher is appointed to a responsible position in an Australian trade  union,  and if, in giving effect to the mandate of his fellow members, he becomes involved in any big industrial dispute, he may be regarded as a foreigner and deported. Australia is the only British dominion where a Britisher, under an act of Parliament, may be defined as a foreigner. We hear a good deal about a certain industrial dispute.. Everything is so peaceful that, if it were not for the scare head-lines in the newspapers, one would hardly know that there was a dispute in progress. There has been no disorder, no destruction of life and property; in fact, it is one of the most peacefully-conducted industrial disputes we have had in Australia for a long time. This proposal to distinguish between Australian born and British born industrial leaders is a doubtful advertisement for our immigration policy, because we shall have to tell British people, who are thinking of migrating to Australia, that, if they become prominently associated with trade unionism, and get involved in an industrial upheaval, we have legislation on our statute-book to deport them. 
The people of Great Britain will be told, that, and the statement will be true. Those honorable senators opposite who, in former years were associated with the Labour movement, know that, but for the fact that, in the years gone by, men were prepared to take the consequences of their actions,  unionism would not be in the strong position it occupies to-day. Some of them would never have seen the inside of these legislative halls but for the wholehearted assistance of the men and women engaged in the workaday unionistic world. Yet we find them either introducing or supporting coercive legislation such as we have had before us recently.  Senator Pearce  is usually cool when introducing measures in this chamber. To-day, however, he worked himself into a state of frenzy and fury. In an endeavour to play upon the emotions of honorable senators opposite he referred to certain actions as " anti-British." I was unable to follow his argument for the reason that the men on strike on British ships are Britishers, and no doubt many of them played a part in the world's war. If, however, he intended his remarks to apply to the bill, I cordially agree with him. This is not an Australian dispute. Australian seamen are not in any way responsible for it, but because three or four men who are prominently associated with a certain organization have taken a part in it, the belief is entertained by some honorable senators opposite that if they were got rid of everything would be quiet and peaceful. That is an insult to the intelligence of the members of the organization. No one seriously believes that any dispute will be settled by the deportation of men who express opinions- that are endorsed by their fellows. I vigorously object to the deportation of anybody who is associated with an industrial organization. I know that my remarks will have little or no effect upon honorable senators opposite. It should, however, be clearly understood by those who vote for this measure that it is a direct attack 11nm organized labour throughout the Commonwealth. If these men were not officebearers in a certain union no action would be taken. ' Because they play a part in that organization, and carry out the instructions of its members they are to be deported without the opportunity to be tried by a jury that is given to even the worst criminal in Australia. What offence have they committed? Have we no laws under which they can be dealt with ? If they have committed an offence why has ont the Government charged them with it ? Honorable senators cannot prove that there is any charge against these men other than that they are prominently associated with a certain union.  Senator Lynch  had a great deal to say about fair play and justice. Does ' he stand for this class of legislation? If he does, I fail to understand what has come over him. Surely there is a right and a wrong way to proceed.  This is not the right way. It is totally dissimilar from the way in which governments in other parts of the world have proceeded. There are maritime disputes to-day in England, Canada, and South Africa, but the Governments of those countries do not even hint at action such as this. 
What was done in New Zealand has nothing to do with what is proposed in Australia. So far as I know, there is not a country in the world that has deported men in the manner that is proposed by this Government. There is no warrant for the bill. There was no justification for passing what we know as the Deportation Act. If the men whose names have been so (frequently mentioned have broken the laws of this country, those laws should be put into operation, and they should be tried as other offenders against the law are tried. 
Because a man has been convicted once, should he not be brought before the same courts if he offends again? 

 - Senator Elliott proposes to set up a new standard.  His  argument is that if a man engages in industrial warfare, and is punished  by a  court, he shall no longer have the right to be tried by that tribunal, but shall be dealt with by a special tribunal. What kind of trial would these men get from honorable senators opposite, who are so biased that they would find them guilty before hearing their defence? Let us assume that the board was composed of Senators Elliott, Lynch, and Guthrie. Such a board could not, and would not, be impartial, because those honorable senators are blinded by prejudice, and their minds would be made up  before these men appeared before them. I have heard  Senator Lynch  say what he would do. It is in very bad taste for honorable senators, before the trial takes place, to say what they would do. 
That has nothing to do with this matter. 
Admitting that he was appointed for a special purpose, that is quite distinct from the. purpose for which this board has been created. The Government would be extremely foolish if, having a certain objective, it did not select men who would do what it desired to have done. 
I say fearlessly that if the board has not been appointed for the purpose of deporting these men, there is no necessity for it. 
There is no Labour nominee on this board. 
I repeat that there is no Labour nominee. on the board that was recently appointed by the Commonwealth Government. 
I do not want any hoard. The courts of this country are competent and trustworthy enough to deal with offenders against the law. It is an insult to the judiciary, and to the intelligence of the people of Australia, to appoint this board. Let us discuss this matter from the stand-point of principle. Do we, or do we not, believe in trial by jury ? 
We are standing steadfastly to certain principles that are fundamental. No one who has any sense of justice or fair play can support a measure of this kind. What is its object? 
For what purpose? 
SenatorReid. - To serve summonses on behalf of the Federal Government. 
And to serve them on men who are associated with industrialism. A new crime has been added to the list. Henceforth " sympathy with and support for men on strike " is to be punishable by deportation. In the view of some honorable senators opposite it is a more serious offence than murder, garrotting or bushranging. 
I challenge the honorable senator to disprove it. 
On the contrary, it is perfectly true. It is for that reason that honorable senators on this side of the chamber are so strongly denouncing the bill. 
It is  not  my fault if my voice is louder than that of  Senator Kingsmill. 
So in the view of  Senator Guthrie  support or opposition to this bill is to be the acid test? 
The bill is to authorize the appointment of a police force and for other purposes. What other purposes? The Minister gave us no information on that point. Sub-clause (1) of clause 2 reads - 
The Attorney-General may appoint, or may authorize the appointment of, so many Peace Officers, of such ranks or grades, as he deems necessary for the preservation of the peace throughout the Commonwealth. 
Apparently the Government intends to appoint a large and an expensive force. " Ranks or grades " would not be required if the object of the bill was merely to enable summonses to be served. The Government ought to give us some information on the salaries it proposes to pay. A police force was appointed a few years ago, which we were told was to be a temporary force, but it cost the country several thousand pounds. I am not sure that, the men who were appointed are not still in the Government service. So far as we know, they are still clothed with the power that was" then conferred upon them. If summonses are to be issued, why could they not be used to serve them ? In my opinion, there is no necessity whatever for this bill," the proposed police force, or the board that has been appointed. If any of our citizens have violated our laws let them be tried in our law courts in the ordinary way, and let the presiding judge or magistrate deal with them according to. their guilt or innocence. The members of the Labour party stand steadfastly by the fundamental principles of British justice. We hold and emphasize on every possible occasion that all men should be equal before the law. The Government holds different views, and for that reason we intend to lose no opportunity to criticize, condemn, and denounce it. 
T am concerned with Australia, and not America. Our duty is to legislate in the interests of our people. I believe that the great majority of the people of Australia are opposed to the object that the Government has in introducing this bill.   Senator Guthrie.-  That is the biggest insult that has ever been offered to our people. 
It is an insult to assume that they do not believe in trial by jury and in the proper administration of justice. I shall lose no opportunity of vigorously denouncing this and every other measure which I believe will result in a violation of the fundamental principles of British justice. I am quite satisfied that the people will realize that those who vote for the bill are against trial by jury, and that those who vote against it believe in constitutional methods of government. 
.- I consider it to be my duty to express my views on this bill. At the outset, let me say that I was returned to the Senate by the electors of Tasmania because of certain platform utterances which I made and believed to be in conformity with the principles of the Labour party. As president of the Australian Labour party in Tasmania, and as the holder of many official positions in the Labour movement there, I have frequently expressed my utter disapproval of. and my undying hostility to, the communistic doctrines that are being preached in this country. I told the electors of Tasmania, prior to the last election, that the Labour party did not believe in communism, and would oppose it and every similarly extreme doctrine. I believe that my colleagues expressed  the  same sentiments. At any rate, I intend to give effect to my pledges by voting for this bill. I consider it to be my duty to adopt every means in my power to oppose communism. The doctrine is not only dangerous to the workers themselves, but also to the existence of trade unions and the advancement of the Labour movement. It threatens the welfare of our people, and it may even have a dire effect on the British Empire itself. Holding these views, I consider I should be false to the electors who have supported me and whom I have represented for a quarter of a century if I did not adopt every reasonable measure to oppose it. I shall endeavour before I resume my seat to prove that it is already seriously affecting the Labour movement in Australia, and is sapping the very life-blood of our whole economic structure. Some little time since we gave the Government power to deport from this country those who held and advocated these dangerous communistic views. Seeing that the object of the bill now before us is to provide the machinery to make effective the power to deport, we are individually responsible for it. If, as a Labour leader and a Labour member, 
I believe that the communistic element in this country is detrimental to the interests of the people and the Labour movement. I think it my duty to say so. No other Labour man, with the exception, perhaps, of  Mr. Birrell,  in South Australia, has taken up my attitude and endeavoured to point out where the workers have been misled, and to keep them in the right path. My attitude is in the interests of misled, and to keep them in the right the workers themselves. It is the duty of Labour leaders to. speak. Why has not the Leader of the Labour party in the Federal Parliament spoken? 
Yes, or the Deputy Leader. Do these leaders of Labour believe in the communist movement? 
They do not. They have debarred communists from becoming members of the organization to which we belong; but the only way in which they can give real expression to their obpjection to them is by giving the Commonwealth Government authority to deal effectively with them. They do not believe in strikes; they believe in the principle of arbitration - I do, at any rate, and when I believe that the workers are being led astray, I tell them so - yet they remain silent. They are either afraid of telling the workers the truth or are anxious to make - I do not know whether I ought to say it - political capital out of what is taking place. We are not in Parliament for our own political gains. 
The Leader of the party in the Senate told me the other day that I am a non-Labour member. He wanted to force me to sacrifice the convictions I have held and cherished for many years. While the workers are led astray, and the sacred edifice of arbitration, built up by the Labour movement for years, is threatened with destruction, the leaders of Labour in this Parliament prefer to remain silent and let certain individuals work their baneful influence among the workers of Australia. If only they had spoken out there would have been no trouble and no need for this bill. Even at the risk of being called anti-Labour, I shall lend my support to this bill. First of all, we have to ascertain whether communism is a dangerous element in Australia, and in order to prove that it is I shall quote the words of a gentleman who is very prominent in the industrial movement. I am not afraid to mention names.  Mr. Jock  Garden, secretary of the Trades and Labour Council in Sydney, went to Moscow in 1922 to attend a bolshevik conference. The head-quarters of the communist movement are at Moscow. The Third Internationale has its headquarters where it can be controlled by the Soviet Government of Russia, and  Mr. Garden,  who was the accredited representative of the communist movement in Australia at the conference of 1922, is reported in all the newspapers as having made the following speech there :  - 
The Communist party in Australia is able to direct 400,000 workers. It is based on the neuclei system. Every union has its neuclei from twenty down to two, and all the neuclei leaders must meet once a week. The I.W.W. have now come in with us and operate inside the craft unions to direct policy, and the communist party formulates this policy. The executive of the Labour Council in New South Wales is fully controlled by the communists. 
Now we can understand why some of the Labour leaders have been afraid to speak at this juncture.  Mr. Garden  went on to say - 
Out of twelve members eleven are avowed communists. We find we are able to change the policy of the Labour party, too. 
I object to that most strongly. The Labour party should not be controlled by these individuals. 
 Mr. Garden  says that it is. 
If it is not, let  Senator Graham  come over to this side and prove that he is opposed to these men by voting for this bill.  Mr. Garden  went on to say - 
We changed the objective from nationalization to socialization- 
I know that that is true, because I had something to do with the conference at which this was done - by revolutionary, political and industrial action. The council directs the struggles for the abolition of capitalism, and this can only be accomplished when the trade unions act in perfect unity with the revolutionary political party of the working classes. 
He says that eleven communists control the whole of the industrial movement in New South. Wales. 
I should not like to say that that is so, although it looks extremely like it. We have further evidence that  Mr. Garden  is a communist in the list of those who form the executive of the Third Internationale. Their names are Lozovsky, Dimitrov, Watkins, George, Tomski, Pruchniak, Kunitariodudo, and there are a number of other unpronounceable names. At the end of the list is the name of  Mr. Jock  Garden, as the representative of Australia. 
I want to preserve Labour from its so-called friends who are really its enemies, and that is why I am voicing these opinions in the Senate. I want the Labour movement to prosper. Here is an opportunity for its leaders. If I were a leader of the party now, with full authority- 
No one can accuse me of not being straight. Whatever opinions I hold I express. I am not afraid to do so. I am not like other honorable senators, who have told me in private their disapproval of certain individuals, but are afraid to express it publicly. Is life worth living if we have to deny our own convictions and smother them up ? And so I may say to my fellow Labourites here, " Speakthe truth ; say what you believe, no matter what the consequences may be." I have told the Senate that the communists threaten not only the industrial movement, and the welfare of Australia, but also the existence of the British Empire. We have verification of this in a report in this morning's  Argus  of certain speeches delivered at a meeting held yesterday in Sydney.For instance,  Mr. Jock  Garden said :  - 
He had come to the conclusion that the sooner the British Empire got a holiday the better. If the British Empire stood for 84 hours a week, and 30s. a week for wives and children, then it was time for the workers to consider the British Empire. 
He was not courageous enough to say that he believed in the destruction of the Empire. But there was the veiled insinuation in his remarks that he did believe in that. Then we have another man by the name of Jacob Johannsen. He comes from Holland, and I believe he is of German descent. He made a speech at the same meeting. He said: - 
The working class, in fighting for better wages and conditions, had been fighting for the wrong thing. Their only hope and outlook was the abolition of the existing system of society, termed " capitalism." That system was responsible for all wars, and the suffering and misery endured by the working class. He was of opinion that whatever was said in favour of the British Empire was detrimental to the interests of the British seamen. The British Empire had only been built upon the degradation, starvation, and misery of the class to which he belonged. 
If that is not a straight-out declaration that the aim and object of these men is the destruction of the British Empire, I do not know what it is. As  Senator Pearce  pointed out, the objective of the communists is to destroy the Empire, which they know is the bulwark standing between civilization and anarchy. We read in the paper the other day that  Mr. Trotsky,  who once was outlawed by the bolsheviks, but succeeded in getting back again, has published a book entitled  Where is England Going?  in which he points out that if the communist movement is to prosper, it is essential, first of all, to destroy the British Empire. We have these men in Australia. There is  Mr. Garden- 
He has never done an honest day's work. He came to Australia as a Scotch parson, and was later employed as a temporary clerk in the Defence Department. So far as I know, he did not go to the war. 
I do not know what happened to him there. 
And probably he deserved it. 
Since then he has' been employed as secretary of the Trades and Labour Council. He is a parasite, as he has been living and imposing upon the workers for years. All he has done has been to preach the gospel of communism. What has Jacob Johannsen done in the interests of the welfare of the people of the Commonwealth ? All he has done is to preach the dangerous doctrine of communism, which threatens the safety of the people, and he has openly stated that his objective is the destruction' of the. British Empire. 
I am not defending him. 1 intend to carry out my pledges to the electors who sent me here. I hope the Government will not play with this measure, and that Parliament will provide the necessary machinery to do the right thing. An honorable senator on the other side of the chamber- 
The side on which the honorable senator is sitting. That is the side to which I belong, and I intend to remain there until I consult the electors of Tasmania, who elected me to represent them. 1 am not going to be coerced or intimidated by statements that I am no longer a Labour man merely because I dare to differ from views expressed by some of my party. 
I have sometimes been in doubt as to whether  Senator Needham  belongs to the Labour movement or to the communistic element. I believe in workmen having good wages and decent living conditions. We have an Arbitration Act and other acts which protect the workers, and we also have an Arbitration Court in which they can ventilate their grievances. The advantages the workers now enjoy have not been won with the assistance of such men as 
Walsh, Garden, or Johannsen, who amongst other things preach the abolition of capitalism. Do honorable senators opposing the bill believe that capitalism should be abolished? The desire to possess is inherent in the human race, and no honorable senator present would object to becoming a capitalist: The love of offspring is the beginning of the desire to possess. If we destroy capitalism and the desire to acquire, we destroy one-half the incentive to human energy, and in doing so threaten the welfare of the nation. Even the baby in the cradle, before it can speak, desires to possess something. The small schoolboy desires a whistle, a trumpet, or a top, and his ambition when he reaches manhood is to amass wealth in order to provide for his offspring. It is a hollow sham to speak of the abolition of capital. All we can do is to endeavour to make the best we can out of existing conditions, and to improve instead of to destroy. False doctrines have been preached by communists with the idea, they say, of protecting the workers. Garden said he was a bolshevik because, under bolshevism, workers would have shorter hours and less work. I am an apostle of hard work. The Labour movement should realize that our Australian man-power must give of its best, and instead of opposing measures such as this, it should encourage greater effort. The hard and fast rules laid down by the  trade unionists who oppose the contract system and desire to adhere to day work, are largely responsible. 
In the interests of the community, and of the workers especially, it is time we were protected from the false doctrines preached. The only way in which that can be done is by sending Garden back to Scotland, and by returning Jacob Johannsen to Holland, where he can preach, the doctrine of Sovietism. It may be asked if a man such as Walsh, who has reared a family of five children in Australia, should be deported ; but there would be no occasion to do so if he observed the laws of the country in which he lives. I have stated upon the platform that I would make every effort in my power to protect the Australian people, and, in this instance, the only way I can do so is by supporting the Government, which I intend to do when a vote is taken. 
.- As an Australian, I consider the objective of the Government in this case will be very objectionable to a large majority of the Australian people. Perhaps honorable senators are aware that  Mr. Walsh,  whose name has been frequently mentioned during the debate, came to Australia many years ago, married an English women, and is now the father of five Australian- born children. What is to be done with those helpless little ones? 
If the Government intend to deport not only the man, but also his wife and family, the least it can do is to look after them in the country in which they will eventually live. If the Government thinks Walsh and others whose names have been mentioned are a menace to the community, why cannot they be dealt with by the present properly constituted legal tribunals? Personally, I am strongly opposed to the deportation of any person. The Government has taken a certain course because of something that has happened. This is an Australian problem. Legislation passed recently gives the Government power to deport certain persons who are alleged to be concerned in an industrial dispute. The attitude taken up by  Mr. Lang,  the Premier of New South Wales, has been referred to in this debate. All that  Mr. Lang  has done has been to declare that he will protect citizens of his State, and test the constitutionality of the Commonwealth law. 
 Mr. Lang  has expressed his determination to resist the encroachments of Commonwealth laws that threaten the liberty of citizens of New South Wales. We should not forget that the people of Australia have certain established rights secured to them under the Constitution. We also have our courts to administer justice. 
Apparently some people forget that laws may be particularly offensive and repugnant to others. This deportation law is offensive to me, becauseI am a man. 
Why bother our heads about that? 
I will tell the honorable senator. I do not know the conditions under which people in other countries are living, and I do not know what I would do if I were living in Russia or Germany, but I think I would take a white man's part in any country. 
I am the head of the greatest industrial organization in this country. Our membership totals 120,000. My union has always stood for the observance of the law. Honorable senators opposite represent those who have always been against the Labour party, and have opposed the system of arbitration. My union, on the other hand, fought for the arbitration law. 
I know  Senator Guthrie  will say he is not against the workers. Of course, he cannot say that he is, but I tell honorable senators frankly- 
I do not know that any communists occupy those positions. 
The Australian Labour party " fired " the communists out of their ranks some time ago. But it cannot eject the communists from the trade unions because the Arbitration Act compels trade unions to, admit to membership any man who may be following an industrial occupation, and makes application. . As president of the Australian Workers 
Union I can speak with some authority. Whenever a man comes along to my union - it does not matter whether he is a communist or not - if he is a worker, my union is compelled to admit him. 
For a very good reason. The communists, whilst forming part of the Labour party organization, wished to promulgate some other doctrine, and we said to them - " If you come into our party you will have to abide by its regulations and rules." They wanted to advocate something else, and so we said - " No; out you go." 
SenatorOgden. - If the communists are not fit to be associated with the Labour movement, surely they are not desirable citizens of Australia. 
I am merely telling the honorable senator what the Labour party did with regard to the communists. As I have shown, the Arbitration Act insists on industrialists being admitted as members of trade unions. We have to obey the law. Honorable senators opposite, in their ignorance, say - " You admit that the communists have been ' fired ' out of the political wing of the Labour party, but they are still in the industrial wing." 
Who is a communist, anyhow? In all probability he is a wage-earner who has to earn his living. I do not know, but I suppose that communists are like the rest of us. Possibly they get married, and no doubt they have responsibilities. The Labour movement is so great and so grand that it can afford to ignore these people. It is allembracing, and it is quite sane. A number of people have found fault with it, but it is the one movement that has made it possible for a great many persons in this country to " stand four-square to all the winds that blow." No organization has done more for the people than the Labour movement. Possibly it has made mistakes, but there has never been a time when those mistakes could not be rectified by the thoughtful co-operation of the men and women in the movement. But let me get back to the bill. This measure, in my opinion, is not fit to be tossed into a spittoon. What does the Government propose to do? Enforce its authority by deporting certain people? I tell honorable senators plainly that I do not care "tuppence" for Garden, Walsh, or any one else. I would make it clear to them that if they declined to abide by the laws of the Commonwealth they would have to suffer the penalty. But surely we should not do away with trial by jury. 
I am trying to explain to honorable senators the foolishness of this business. Some years ago I was acting general secretary of my organization during the temporary absence of  Mr. Grayndler,  the general secretary, who was under medical treatment. I was trying to give effect to the wishes of my fellow members, but the Arbitration Act was put into operation, and I was fined £100. When he fined me the gentleman who represented the law said to me - "If you come here again I will give you prison." The same treatment was meted out to my  president,  and to the editor of the newspaper, which is the official organ of our party. We were taken through the High Court, and an injunction order made against us. Every official of our organization - there are about 500 of them - was also named in the order. 
We were fighting the honorable senator's people. 
We did not think we were. I had prepared for publication certain material referring to our case, and I thought we could dodge the law. 
I again tell the honorable senator that we did not think we were.  Mr. Blakeley,  who was then  president  of the Australian Workers Union, wished to publish our case in  Hansard.  It was submitted to our legal adviser. He said, "That matter cannot be delivered." I could not get our case placed before the people of this "country through the columns of  Hansard.  Do honorable senators opposite stand for that sort of thing? I do not mind engaging in a " scrap," and I am prepared to take a knock. This is a paltry action that the Government proposes to take. Does  Senator Ogden  support the provisions of the Deportation Act? 
I should never agree to the deportation of  Senator Ogden,  or any other man. 
My view, too, is that the citizens of any country must conform to its laws, whether they believe in or object to them. But surely it should be fer their own countrymen to say what shall be the penalty if they offend against the law. Honorable senators opposite propose to rid their country of ' a " cancer " by passing it on to some other country. 
I do not call anybody a cancer. If  Senator Guthrie  did anything that was wrong, why should I place on another country the responsibility of dealing with him? I should deal with him myself, and give him the fairest possible trial. 
I sat with Walsh on a conference that was held in Australia 30 years ago. I do not know him intimately, and I often disagree with him. I do not know why Walsh should be advertised so widely. What I do know, however, is that he. married an Englishwoman in Australia. Apparently he is an advocate of Labour, and a prominent official of the Seamen's Union. 
-What of. that? No one would worry if the honorable senator held similar views. Australia has been brought to its present position by the efforts of men and women who came here from other parts of the British Empire. They were responsible for the building, up of a race that will not tolerate action such as this. Walsh and his wife settled in Australia, and they have five Australian kiddies. What will be done with those children? Do honorable senators opposite think that they can get them out of Australia? 1 say that they cannot. I do not want to shift my troubles on to any one else. If there is a citizen of Australia who commits an act that is objectionable to the people and against the law, we can deal with him under our laws, instead of sending him out of this country. Where do honorable senators propose that Walsh shall be. sent? 
This is foolish legislation, and it should not be seriously considered by a Parliament that is supposed to represent the considered opinion of the people of Australia. If I were in the position of  Mr. Lang  or the Premier of any Australian State, and the Com-  monwealth Government sent its peace officers to arrest any citizen of that State, I would surround that citizen with the protection of the whole of my police force and other citizens to prevent him from being taken. Five of the States in Australia are absolutely opposed to this proposal. 
The honorable gentleman and his confreres will do nothing of the kind. " Their names will be anathema to the people of this and succeeding generations. Five of the States are being governed by Labour. Why, then, persist with this stupid proposal? 
Fools rush in where angels fear to ' tread. As a responsible Australian citizen, I do not want the Australian statutes to be disgraced. It is not necessary to appoint a peace force to bring any one before a board. I venture the opinion that if Walsh or Johannsen were summoned to appear before a board they would do so. 

 Sitting suspended from 6 to 7.30  p.m. 
There is no doubt that the' proposal to establish this police force is absolutely objectionable to a large section of our people. 
All the States have police forces which are able to cope with evil-doers. This trouble is centred in New South Wales because certain responsible officers of trade unions are there. It is an amazing thing to me that although the New South Wales Premier  (Mr. Lang)  has intimated that his Government is quite capable of dealing effectively with all the law breakers there, the Commonwealth Government says, " You have certain men there whom we wish to arrest. If you do not arrest them, we shall." In these circumstances it is quite possible that if the " show down " comes, the State Government will take a certain action. 
Anything may happen if this Government persists in its present cranky course. 
And revolution because the Government of New South Wales, which is capable of maintaining order in that State, and is doing so, resists the intrusion of a posse of Commonwealth police. The State Government may say, " We will not allow you to take lawabiding citizens of this State into custody." 
Then why introduce legislation of this character? If certain persons in New South Wales are disobeying the law, let them' be dealt with in a lawful way. Let us cease our attempts to apply these old-women methods, and do the thing properly. The New South Wales Government has said, "If certain citizens in our State deserve jail, we will jail them." It has intimated that it will maintain law and order. Why, then, should we appoint a Commonwealth police force? It is quite possible that the entry of Commonweath police into New South Wales may cause trouble. 
Australia ought to speak with one voice, but there  are  some principles that must be maintained. 
A certain man, named Johannsen,- has been criticized. I do not know him personally, but I know that he is a responsible officer of a responsible organization. The workers in various industries in this country have organized themselves according to their own desires. If the seamen, for instance, care to put into office a man named Johannsen, or a man named Anathema, for that matter, it is their business, and not ours. We must allow their officers to speak on their behalf, and stupid panic legislation of this' kind will not prevent it. I do not profess to know every fact in this dispute, but I know that the British" seamen left their own country under certain conditions, and that while they were on the high seas they were notified by wireless that their wages had been reduced by £1 per month, which meant that some of them would get only  £8  10s. a month. Does any honorable senator opposite suggest that' that is a reasonable wage? A sailor who had a wife and three or four children in England could, at that rate of pay, send them only £2 2s. 6d. a week if he sent all his pay. Naturally the seamen resented the reduction in their wages, and when they reached Australia they consulted the union leaders' here. They said, in effect, " Will you assist us to resist this reduction ? " What could the Australian seamen do but reply in the affirmative? 
I am not concerned about that. I ask honorable senators opposite to tell me fairly, squarely, and frankly whether they consider  £8  10s. a month a reasonable wage. 
But the Government is attempting to force them to accept  £8 103.  a month. 
Then how, can the honorable senator support this endeavour of the Inchcape combine, which has  made huge profits out of its shipping interests, to force the English seamen to work for  £8 10s.  a month ? 
Why quibble about that? The British sailor who comes to Australia and finds that his wages have been reduced by £1 a month says to the seamen of Australia, "Will you help me? Although I am in a strange country where I have no personal friends, I am prepared to fight to prevent my wife and children from being deprived of that £1 per month." Some of them were fighting in the wars of their country. 
I do not think so. I would have heard of it if it were so. Many of us have read in our school-books the story of the English sailor whom Napoleon found on the shores of Prance building a raft. When Napoleon asked him what he was doing, he said, " I am only trying to build a raft. I want to get back to my own country to see my mother." Napoleon said, "Desist; a noble mother must have bred so brave a son." And he saw that the man was sent across to England to see his mother. The same type of men are to be found to-day coming to Australia on these English ships, and when they ask us to assist them to maintain their rate of pay honorable senators support an infamous bill like this to prevent us from giving them any assistance. In other words, the purpose of this bill is to prevent English seamen from getting more than £8 10s. per month. If laws are generous and just, I will stand by them, but this bill is neither generous nor just. Honorable senators seem to forget that in this matter they are not only dealing with New South Wales, where, unfortunately,  Mr. Walsh  and  Mr. Garden  happen to be. If the same thing had happened in Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia, or Tasmania, there would have been just as strong a protest as wehaveheard from New South Wales. 
I do not care twopence who is put in charge of the Labour movement. Every provision is made for shifting any one who is undesirable or who is not doing his work well. No one can occupy a position in a union unless he is placed in that position by the members of the union. 
They all have it. 
I think that the Commonwealth should have very wide powers, but I do not think that it is wise to violate the democratic sentiment of the people of Australia. The Government says that it needs Commonwealth machinery to do something that the States are not doing, but what warrant has it for saying that? There are  only a few English sailors here who want the Australian sailors to help them to keep something to which they are justly entitled. If they are wrong in their conduct- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Newland).  - The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
Motion (by  Senator McHugh)  proposed - 
That an extension of 30 minutes be granted to  Senator Barnes. 
-I do not seek an extension of time. 
In expressing my disapproval of the bill, I do not wish to take up much of the time of the Senate. The Government, in proposing to appoint a special police force in New South "Wales is going a step too far. We have already passed a Deportation Act, and now the Government asks us to pass a bill to permit of that act being enforced, and to allow it to take the very arbitrary action of deporting certain persons. That these persons are undesirable and a menace to the peace and good government of the country is a matter for conjecture; we do not even know their names. It has been hinted at that they are leaders of a big organization like the Seamen's Union. 
This measure has been submitted to enable the Government to deport persons, who, in its opinion, are considered undesirable citizens. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT. - The bill does not provide for the deportation of any person; it provides for the appointment of peace officers. 
That may be 'so, but it has a very direct bearing on the amending Immigration Bill passed by Parliament a few weeks ago, in which provision was made for the deportation of certain persons. That measure is now on the statute-book, and the Government having found that it could not, without the assistance of special peace officers, give effect to it. has introduced this bill. Whatever may have been said to the contrary by the Minister and honorable senators opposite, it cannot be denied that certain persons are to be denied the right of trial by jury which is given to every other citizen of the Commonwealth. The Government intended to place in the hands of the three members of the Deportation Board powers which should not be exercised by any three persons. It is easy to imagine other union leaders being dealt with by the Deportation Board in the same manner as it is proposed to deal with those whose names have been mentioned this afternoon. 
I am aware of that. In all civilized countries, those who do not obey the law have to appear before a properly constituted court and be tried by a jury. 
I am referring to Australia. 
The proposed action of the Government will unnecessarily curtail the liberties of the people, and it is obvious that this measure has been introduced with the sole object of punishing certain men who happen to be associated with the Labour movement. The industrial unrest which at present prevails in New South Wales is not of sufficient consequence to justify the appointment of a Federal police force. There have not been any disorderly scenes, but, on the contrary, the behaviour of the seamen is said to be exemplary. It is only natural that men whose wages have been reduced should endeavour to protect their interests. According to the cabled reports, the members of certain unions have decided to accept the reduced rate. 
Not all. The Government is now endeavouring to force the men hack to the ships. I have a vivid recollection of what happened in Broken Hill on 25th July, 1892, when the miners refused to return to work. Armed mounted police were sent from Sydney, and the Riot Act was not read, because the atmosphere was more peaceful than it was in this chamber this afternoon. 
That is not so. When it was found that the miners would not return to work, their leaders were sent to Deniliquin, one of them, Sleath, being manacled, and there they were tried before a biased judge and a jury consisting of squatters and business men, who it was certain would record a conviction. The Deportation Board should be termed the prosecution board, because all those who are unfortunate enough to come before it will be convicted. I do not know 
Garden, Walsh, or Johannsen, and it is needless for me to repeat that the members of the party to which I belong are opposed to communism. 
I am not supporting them. 
The communists cannot join the Labour party. 
I have suggested that they should be tried before a 'jury. 
Whose minds are already made up. 
They would not have been appointed unless they were likely to record a conviction. 
The men whose actions do not meet with the approval of the Government have been placed in responsible positions by a majority of the members of the organization, and the Government, is now seeking a means whereby to deport them without, a proper trial. This afternoon  Senator Guthrie  referred to the red flag. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Newland).  - There is nothing in this bill about the red flag. 
No. But it was mentioned to-day. If an able-bodied man could be led away by a red flag on a stick his outlook must be very limited. I have a great deal of respect for  Senator Guthrie.  The Union Jack, he says, is his flag. It is my flag, too. 
I have never sung " The Red Flag." 
They must answer for themselves. I believe in fair play for every one. For this reason I object to this pernicious measure. It will not redound to the credit of this Parliament if we pass it, and authorize the establishment of a police force to carry out the provisions of the deportation law. I have as much respect for the law as any other honorable senator, but I object to deportation being used as a weapon against any persons concerned in industrial disputes. 
Before the dinner adjournment rhetorical sparks were flying. Honorable senators opposite were remarkably eloquent as advocates for "  Walshevism,"  that canker that is eating into the heart of our industrial system.. I was astounded that the representatives in this chamber of what -was once the great Labour party, but which now is discredited in the eyes of the workers, should by their speeches uphold the actions of foreign agitators in this country. It is extraordinary that they should support men who for many months past have been the declared agents of the bolshevists of Russia, and have done everything in their power to disturb the peace and destroy prosperity in Australia. These anti-Britishers, these anti-Australians, and these anti-unionists have been busily employed for many months in their nefarious work. Jacob Johannsen, to give the man his proper name, is a communist, and " Jock " Garden is an avowed 'bolshevist. He is proud of the fact. As for Walsh, we know that he has disowned the British Empire time after time, so it is about time that we disowned him. These men have had the audacity to interfere in a dispute with which actually they have, no concern. The British seamen, who have been induced to cease work in Australian ports, have for the last 30 or 40 years been under the leadership of Havelock Wilson, one of the finest figures in the history of British trade unionism.. Havelock Wilson to-day has 70,000 seamen and kindred unionists behind him. A few weeks ago he and other representatives of these kindred unions in Great Britain came to an agreement with British shipowners as to future rates of pay for British seamen. Those British seamen who have ceased work in Australian ports represent only about 3 per cent, of the total membership of their union.  Unfortunately, they have been misled by these foreign agitators, who have incited them to' rebel against their own leaders. These agitators, who are supplied with money from Moscow, stand for the ideals of bolshevism, and are trying to cause disruption, and worse, in this country. Their purpose is to bring about strike after strike to cause unemployment amongst thousands of the people, with its dreadful consequences to the wives and families of all the trade unionists involved. It is astounding that the Labour party should be associated with these foreign agents and their emissaries in Australia.  Senator Hannan  was a good prophet this afternoon. He was a better tipster even than  Vockler  when he said that I was pleased that this upheaval was being. engineered by Walsh and his Moscow friends, because it would mean that I would win the next election. Any one who stands for the British Empire, the Union Jack, and fair dealing, and obedience to the laws of this country, is sure to beat another man who advocates bolshevism and stands for chaos and disruption. The Labour party, which once was a great party, has dug its grave by its support of these foreign agitators who are traitors to the Empire, to Australia, and to trade unionism. The men who are behind the present trouble .have been inciting industrialists to strike for years. Walsh and his satellites engineered the last Australian shipping strike. They failed then, and now they are endeavouring to use these misguided British seamen who are thousands of miles from their leaders to bring about disruption in this country. There is nothing that the bolshevist likes better than to cause suffering and hardship amongst the working .classes. Walsh, Johannsen, Garden, and Casey have no time for conditions that mean peace and prosperity. They stand for bolshevism and all that it means. Their one aim is to dislocate our industrial machinery, cause disruption and unemployment, so that they may preach their horrible doctrine of class hatred and cause enmity among the people. The majority of these agitators have never done an honest day's work in their lives. They live on the workers. They incite industrialists to strike on every conceivable occasion. Otherwise they would lose their jobs. They hate the British Empire and the Union Jack. Nothing would please them better than to be able to do something to bring about the disintegration of the Empire. Their one object is to poison the minds of the workers, to preach class hatred, and cause discontent. The great majority of the people in Australia wish to get on with their work. They realize that this is a country of wonderful opportunities; a land where the conditions are better than in any' other country in the world, and where wages are the. highest. Unhappily, on so many occasions, the workers are intimidated by a handful of tyrants. These men are not democrats. On " the contrary, they are the greatest autocrats that have ever come to Australia. Honorable senators opposite, if one may judge from their speeches in this debate, appear to have entirely overlooked the fact that these men have been endeavouring to induce British seamen to revolt against their accredited leaders. It is extraordinary that representatives of the Labour party in this Parliament should admit that Walsh and the other agitators are accredited leaders of labour in this country. Let me read, for the information of honorable senators, a challenge issued by  Mr.  Cathery,  the general secretary of the National Sailors' and Firemen's Union in Great Britain. The following cabled statement appeared in the Melbourne Press a few days ago: - 

 Mr. Cathery  said he welcomed the press announcement from Sydney that  Mr. Tom  Walsh proposed to go to England for the purpose of smashing  Mr. Havelock  Wilson's union. " T would  not like to suggest that  Mr. Walsh  was making a virtue of necessity, like the coon who said, ' Don't shoot  Colonel, I  will come down,'" continued  Mr. Cathery.  "I gave  Mr. -Walsh  credit for taking himself seriously, but if he dared to tackle  Mr. Havelock  Wilson on his native heath he would get the surprise of his life. 

 Mr. Cathery said that he had been associated with  Mr. Havelock  Wilson for forty years, and he was the most successful Labour leader he had ever known, as evidenced by the way in which he had built up the Seamen's Union, which was the world's greatest organization of its kind. That was the reason for the request from Canada and the United States of America three years ago to  Mr. Wilson  "to come over here and help us." 
What an impertinence for  Mr. Walsh  to think that he is able to smash  Mr. Havelock  Wilson who, as I have shown, is the leader of the greatest union in Great Britain. The statement continues: - 

 Mr. Cathery emphasized the fact that the present wages agreement had not only been confirmed, firstly, by the executive council of  the.  union, and, secondly, by 72 branches, but also by the Ships' Officers' Union, representing the engineers, shipwrights, and boiler workers. 
I remind  Senator Hannan,  who was so fierce this afternoon in his denunciation of honorable senators on this side, that the agreement referred to has been made between the British ship-owners and the accredited leaders of the British seamen. Therefore, it is not for us to say what wages shall be paid. Our duty is to look after our own affairs. We repudiate any suggestion that we believe in reducing wages in Australia. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber have done a great deal more for the workers of Australia than honorable senators opposite have done, or are ever likely to do. We believe in paying good wages, and in providing good food and working conditions. Our one object is to ensure peace, progress, and prosperity for the people of Australia. It would appear that some honorable senators opposite are prepared to support foreign agitators whose one object is to incite the workers to revolution and so cause an upheaval in this country. They are not the true representatives of Labour. We stand as pro-workers, anti-shirkers, anti-communists, and anti-Walshevists.  Mr. Cathery  also said - 
There was a disturbance this morning outside the Stepney office of the Seamen's Union, whose officers have been threatened by the communists. 
On every occasion lawbreakers and strikers are " egged on " by the communists. Honorable senators opposite have the effrontery to say in this chamber that they do not believe in the communists? Yet  Mr. Jock  Garden, the man whom they have been lauding during the whole afternoon, openly boasts that he is a communist. There is another in the Victorian legislature, who handled the communistic funds in this city. 
I shall prove it. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  - Order ! I ask  Senator Hannan  to withdraw the unparliamentary expression that a statement made by  Senator Guthrie  is a deliberate untruth. 
I shall not forget. If the honorable senator will be patient, I shall prove the truth of every statement that I make. 
Time will permit. It is palpable to every thinking person that the  Walshites  are agents of the bolshevists. Recent strikes have been engineered with one object. They have fitted in admirably with the strikes and disruption that took place in Shanghai, and the fresh terrible outburst in Russia. This is all part of a huge plot to smash the big unions and disintegrate the British Empire. The members of a big, well-led union? who are carrying on their work, are not men who can be turned into agitators or murderous cut-throats. A new communistic offensive was launched just when Walsh, Garden, Casey, and Johannsen commenced the trouble in Australia. It must be apparent to honorable senators that 2,000 British seamen, on landing in Sydney, would not know what hall to go to. The bolshevist sympathizers, apparently, had agents on all these vessels, inciting the men to strike immediately they landed in Australia. Walsh, Garden, and Johannsen were waiting for them on their arrival. An excellent article appeared in last Tuesday's  Herald,  under the heading "Price of Communism." "New Reign of Terror in Russia." This is how it reads : - " The terrorism which marked the earlier period of the Soviet regime has been revived throughout Russia," says the Riga correspondent of the  Times.  "Numerous summary shootings have also been reported. These methods were for a long while suspended and their resumption is causing much alarm. The reason for 'the resumption is not apparent, but it is stated to be due to the anxiety of the Bolsheviks as to the security of their regime." 
Evidently they were not sufficiently bloodthirsty for some of their supporters. They have, therefore, revived torture and bloodshed, which honorable senators opposite pretend do not exist, or of the existence of which they plead ignorance. The bolshevists have an agitation department, to which honorable senators opposite could very well be attached. The following quotation illustrates the methods that are adopted: - 
The international scope of Moscow's exertions makes it evident that the tricks and devices used in London, Ottawa, Shanghai, and in Sydney will be much the same. In the recent Shanghai riots the police investigated the charge that a Russian, named Dosser, who had been arrested, was a Soviet agent. Cunningly concealed in the binding of a telegraphic code book among Dosser's possessions wasi a certificate revealing the existence of a Soviet agitation department which was formed to foment strikes in the Far East. Dosser, it was shown, was officially known as agent No. 43. 
I do not know the number of  Mr. Walsh, Mr. Johannsen,  or  Mr. Garden.  The quotation proceeds - 
The certificate read - 
Certificate of the Agitation Department op the Russian Communist Party op Shanghai. 

 Agent 43. 
The bearer, Comrade Dosser, is sent by the Agitation Department, South China Section, to Hong Kong and Canton for organizing strike committees. All members of the Russian Communist party should give him every assistance. 
Honorable senators opposite evidently desire to render every assistance to the agents of the bolshevists in Sydney. It goes on to say - 
Activities in England. 
In England,, the communists arc said to number only 5,000, but they are capable of great mischief. They have at their backs the cash which the bolsheviks have stolen in Russia, and all the elaborate organization of Moscow for promoting and perpetrating crime. With these Moscow subsidies and the aid of Moscow agents, thinly disguised, the communists have made much headway with their propaganda. The slow, steady drift of a corrosive poison is permeating organized labour. There, also, the unit of organization is the nucleus, and the chief aim is to influence the younger workers. The hand-book of the Young Communist League, with a foreword from Moscow, explains in detail how the youth is to be corrupted and brought under the iron heel of bolslievisin. It says - 
The nucleus must be borne out of an ordinary dispute, such as a dismissal, wages cut, or alleged ill-treatment. The two or three communists composing it must utilize this opportunity for inaugurating their campaign to control the men. The leisure hours of the youths must be passed under communist influence. 
The Sydney agents of the bolshevists have used the temporary reduction in the wages of the British seamen, with which we have nothing whatever to do, as an excuse for their present action. 
That quotation is from the Melbourne  Herald.  If the honorable senator wants further condemnation of bolshevism and Walshism I can supply it to him from the columns of practically any newspaper in Australia. Honorable senators opposite think that we draw the long bow when we refer to the horrors of the mental disease of bolshevism . that was initiated by German propaganda during the war, and flourished so rapidly in Russia. The bolshevists are now endeavouring to conquer the world by means of a world-wide revolution. Many of the supporters of honorable senators opposite belong to the I.W.W. - the "I want war " party. 
- For all I know, the Czar may have been a very fine man. I should say that he was a far better man than Walsh, Garden or Johannsen. I shall quote the considered opinions of some of the most learned and unbiased persons in the world, men of all nationalities, democracies, and denominations, showing what bolshevism has done and is doing to-day in Russia. 
The  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT.Order ! Unless the honorable senator can connect his remarks a little more closely with the bill he will not be in order. 
The bill proposes to create machinery which will enable the Commonwealth Government, if necessary, to deport foreign agitators and other persons whose presence in Australia is prejudicial to the peace, order, and good government of the Commonwealth. The following are extracts from a - recent article by Professor Charles  Sarolea,  whose knowledge of Russia past and present is famous: - 
Trade-union leaders travelling on a personallyconducted tour may still inform us that Russia is still enjoying peace and tranquility. But the tranquility is the tranquility of prostration and exhaustion, the peace is the peace of the desert. And in that desert are stalking the four spectres of hunger and plague, terror and madness. A once prosperous country has been turned into a madhouse and a prison, into a hospital and a cemetery. 
Apparently, the honorable senator does not care. He and those who think as he thinks evidently desire to have those conditions in Australia. 
The quotation continues as follows: - 
Judged by any test which was ever applied to any human government, the Soviet regime stands condemned. It has repudiated every one of its principles, it has broken every one of its pledges. It started by establishing a communistic policy, and ended by partitioning the Russian continent in huge concession areas, and the concessions were offered as bribes to the millionaire capitalists of the world. It claimed that it was going to abolish the rich man, and only succeeded in creating a hideous class of profiteers, traffickers in purloined diamonds, furs, and pictures, the receivers of stolen property. It started by suppressing the. death penalty," and ended by slaughtering millions of inoffensive people. And the slaughtering and starving process has been so ruthless that, according to a high American authority, ex-Ambassador  Ashburn  Child, the pre-war population of 180.000.000 has been reduced to less than 00,000,000. ' 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.-  The honorable senator is wandering too far from the bill. I ask him to confine his remarks more closely to it. 
I desired to enlighten honorable senators opposite in regard to the grave danger of allowing the agents of bolshevism to remain in Australia. One of the leaders in the present strike who may possibly be deported under this measure is  Mr. J.  S. Garden. He is connected with the Labour party, and also with bolshevism and communism. In a speech at the Communist Hall, Sydney, on Sunday evening, the 15th of February last, he presented his political plat- form. It contained the followingplanks : - 
Nationalization without compensation, and with the workers' control of banks, mines, and large-scale industries. 
Workers' control of all State and municipal services. 
 Payment of the full basic wage to all workers when unemployed or incapacitated by sickness, accident, or old agc. 
A minimum wage of £6 per week for all workers, irrespective of sex. 
A six-hour working day and a five-day week, totalling 30 hours a week. 
On the 22nd of January last, in his report as secretary and treasurer of the Trades and Labour Council,  Mr. J.  S. Garden said - 
The ' shadow of communism is over the Labour movement, and all efforts to banish communism and communists are bound to fail. The good old times of playing at politics are gone; revolution lias stepped upon the stage. 
We make no apology for desiring to deport men who are propagating sentiments like that.  Mr. Garden  is also reported to have said that his party was not in opposition to the Labour Government. He added, that the communists, while retaining their' separate identity, would give the Labour party general support. In spite of that honorable senators opposite have endeavoured to dissociate themselves and their party from communism . On the 20th February, 1925,  Mr. Garden  outlined his policy as a communist candidate at the recent election in New South Wales. The full text of his speech was published in the  Workers' Weekly.  It contained the following pertinent sentence : - 
The immediate need is the return of the  Labour Government. 
It is quite clear that the communists are trying to rule, and then ruin trade unionism in this country. Honorable senators opposite will find out when they face the electors shortly what the general opinion is respecting this class of man. Although they say that they are against communism and bolshevism, they have allowed the  Deputy  Leader of the Labour party in New South Wales  (Mr. Loughlin)  to make statements like the following, without repudiating them: - 
The preference system of voting in Federal and State electorates gives the communists an opportunity of functioning separately without prejudicing the united front against the Nationalists. They have their own party organization and their own newspaper. Let the 
Communist party select its own candidates to attack the Nationalists. The candidates can try their policy out on the primary votes, and give their preferences to the Labour men. In this way we can secure all the united front we want. Under this arrangement each party would be free to give the fullest expression to its ideals, and the full weight of the anti-capitalist parties could be thrown against, the Nationalist Government. And there is no other way of doing it. 
It was nothing more nor less than a huge election bluff that led Labour in New SouthWales to repudiate the communists during the last election campaign there. They are convicted out of their own mouths of the most patent insincerity. 
None at all, in my opinion ; particularly in view of the fact that he had refused to assist the Commonwealth Government in its endeavour to rid this country of undesirable foreign agitators, I am astounded that honorable senators opposite have not the common sense to see through the devices of the communists. 
The law of selfpreservation should have prevented them from applauding the communistic sentiments that have been expressed by some of their reputed leaders, who are nothing more nor less than bolshevik representatives fromRussia. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.-  I ask  Senator McHugh  not to continue to repeat that interjection. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT. - Order ! 
It cannot be denied thatWalsh, Johannsen, Garden, and their satellites are doing great work as representatives of bolshevist Russia in this country. They believe in the all-red route to ruin, via Moscow, and honorable senators opposite who are afraid to denounce them will be in a queer position when they face the electors. Comrade Garden attended the Third International in Moscow, and he is one of the most prominent men in the Labour movement in New SouthWales. Since his return he has stated publicly that the communists hope that by "white anting" the trade unions of New SouthWales they will " direct the impulses of half a million votes." But Comrade Casey, one of the noisy four who are disrupting and misleading the workers, does not think that Communist Garden is hot enough. He is too conservative for Casey. Let honorable senators listen for a moment to the following report from a Sydney newspaper :  - 
How could he have time for work when he is so busy preaching the gospel of the revolution? The report concludes with the statement that  Mr. Casey  is behind most of the Johannsen-Walsh troubles. 
So the honorable senator desires me to revert to the subject of the woollen mills? I shall be very pleased to comply with his wish if the  Deputy President  will give me permission to do so. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  - I cannot allow the honorable senator to do that. He must confine his remarks to the bill. 
I am showing, sir, that Walsh, Johannsen, Garden, Casey and company are responsible for the strike of the British seamen in Australia. 
 The DEPUTY PRESIDENT.- The bill before us deals with the appointment of peace officers. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  -  Senator Needham  must not reflect upon the Chair. 
I am endeavouring to show that, in the interests of this country, these agitators should be deported. Honorable senators opposite harped for a good while this afternoon on the low wages paid to the British seamen. What have they to say about the wages paid to foreign seamen who are coming here to remove our produce while the British seamen are on strike? The seamen on the Japanese and other foreign vessels that come here are paid less than half as much as the British seamen, and while the bolshevik leaders in Australia are engineering this strike the poorly-paid foreign seamen are reaping the benefit and capturing the shipping trade from the British. The prospect of the hold-up of the overseas shipping is alarming. Australia, very largely - in fact, almost entirely - lives on the value of the exportable primary produce which the rest of the world wants to buy from us. .During the last twelve months the value of our exports of wheat, butter, and wool was £100,000,000. If this shipping strike continues we cannot export our produce. Just as we are about to embark on a new export season vessels are held up, and as a result the overseas export trade of Australia will, if the strike continues, be held up. What will the farmers think of those who come here and talk as honorable senators have talked to-day ? Throughout the recent strike those honorable senators did not lift a finger to try to enable the trade of the. country to go on. Of last year's wool clip 200,000 bales have still to be sold and got away. The new season's clip will provide another 2,250,000 bales to be shifted. The butter export season is at hand. How will the dairy farmers and the other producers be financed if, through the tactics of three or four foreign extremists and agitators, they cannot get their produce away to the markets of the world? If this strike continues much longer there must be a serious fall in the price of all Australia's exportable produce. Already there is a fall in the price of wool. The wool manufacturers of the world come to Australia to buy our wool, but if they are unable to ship it they will not buy it, or, at any rate, will buy it only at a low speculative price, in the hope of making something out of it later on. They, will not take the risk of paying the full market value for any commodity they cannot ship. To a large extent, they finance against shipping bills of lading. Is that fair to the producer? Is it fair to him that honorable senators should encourage agitators toremain, in this country igniting the fires of strikes and disruption? What will the farmers, the backbone of the country - they produce 75 per cent, of the wealth of Australia - think of those who help such men to bring about conditions of hardship, strife, starvation, and ruin, thus making the Common-1 wealth a hotbed for the' development of bolshevism? We all know that when these strikes are in progress it *is the poor unfortunate women and children - those who have not a vote in the union - that suffer. The capitalist does not suffer. He has  enough inside fat to keep him alive. He can increase his freights later on and get back his present losses. But the poor women and children suffer when the husbands are 0U of work. I cannot be told by honorable senators that the men are anxious to be out of work. If secret ballots were taken there would not be one strike a year,  whereas we now have a strike almost every week. Honorable senators talk of the democratic method of using the secret ballot in the election of members of Parliament, of which all approve, but they do not approve of it in the conduct of the affairs of their unions. They would rather fan the flames of a worldwide conflagration. Throughout the negotiations of recent months they did nothing but try to baulk the Govern-  ment from carrying on. They vied with one another in applauding  Mr. Walsh   and  Mr. Johannsen,  calling them fine  leaders of the men. "Misleaders" I call  them, or leaders of bolshevism, but enemies of unionism. The position to which official labour has fallen in this country is sad indeed. But I do not fear that bolshevism or communism will succeed in Australia, no matter how hard the agitator may try to fan the flames. The Australian people are too loyal. They are too well educated; they are too well off. The savings bank  figures show that the deposits during the last ten years have doubled, and that  per capita  they are greater here than in any other country. The people of Australia will not be easily led away by agitators. The efforts of those who plan to cause a conflagration here will fail. The people of Australia will not stand for communism, bolshevism, or Walshevism. But official Labour has blundered deplorably. Those who love Australia want it, to be peaceful, prosperous, and progressive. But can we have peace, progress, and prosperity when the outside, if not the inside, leaders of Labour are foreigners or agitators of "the type of Messrs. Walsh, Garden and Johannsen ? The people of Australia have  only to be told the truth - that all this disturbance emanates from the bolshevists and Industrial Workers of the World organizations - for them to determine to stand behind the efforts of the Government to provide as far as is humanly possible for the peace, progress, prosperity, and good government of this glorious Commonwealth of Australia. 
.- I have listened very attentively to the debate, and have been surprised to find that a good deal of extraneous matter has been introduced into it. What we are asked to do is to give the Commonwealth Government the power to put into operation a law which was pased by this Parliament a short while ago. I regret that this bill should have been found necessary. The bill we passed a little while ago provided that in certain contingencies the Commonwealth Government should have the power to prosecute certain individuals, whoever they might be, and deport them if they were found guilty of the offence with which they were charged. Every one naturally expected that the States would1 stand loyally behind the Commonwealth, and that if any assistance was required in order to carry this law into operation ifc would be forthcoming immediately it was asked for. But, during the last few days, we have had the deplorable spectacle of the Government of New South Wales absolutely declining to recognize a Commonwealth law. A request having been sent to the Government of New South Wales for the enforcement of a Commonwealth law has been refused. Honorable, senators who are opposing the bill have always boasted of their advocacy of majority rule. No measure can pass this Parliament unless it is agreed to by a majority. Therefore, if honorable senators are true to their professions, they ought to stand behind the decision of the majority and help the Government to make effective the law passed a short time ago. Instead of doing that they are denouncing the Government ,and every honorable senator who is supporting the Government in its effort to make effective a law that has been passed by the Parliament of Australia. A great deal has been said to-day to try to make the people of Australia believe that there is no necessity for this legislation. There is necessity for it to-day, and, as recent developments have proved, there was equal necessity for it over a year ago. I was astonished to hear an honorable senator say that the Ministry had failed to govern Australia as it should have been governed. To a certain extent that is true, but only because of the absence from our statute-book of a measure of the kind just recently passed. As a matter of fact, that act should have been passed long ago. This is not the first occasion on which the Government of Australia has been thwarted, and the action now proposed to be taken  would have been justified over twelve months ago. I regret the delay that has taken place. Honorable senators are urging that this legislation is a direct challenge to trade unionism in Australia. I have heard pleas put up for the workers of Australia. I have heard statements made here which are not the whole of the truth. They have been made by honorable gentlemen who know the whole of the truth, but deliberately keep half of it to themselves. One statement made was to the effect that the British seamen who are now out on strike in Sydney were not aware of the reduction in the rates of pay for British seamen agreed to by their union. That statement is not correct. I am assured, on the best authority, that a fairly large proportion of these men were aware of it, and that before they left London they signed articles which included the reduced rate of pay. This reduced rate came into  force  on the 3rd July last, and some of them left London after that date. But even if that were not so, though I am assured that it is the case, there is still no justification for men failing to recognize what has been done by their union. If ever there was an instance of men " scabbing " on their union it has occurred during this strike. When a deliberate attempt is made by a small minority to disobey the decision of the majority of a union, that small minority is chargeable with "scabbing" on the majority. I am anxious to see the trade, commerce and industry of the Commonwealth carried on without let or hindrance whilst giving a fair deal to the workers. If honorable senators opposite visited the wharfs yesterday they would have witnessed a spectacle which I am sure would have deterred them from making some of the extraordinary statements they uttered this afternoon. A large quantity of cargo which was to be dispatched by British ships held up in Melbourne was being shipped by foreign vessels. Do trade unionists believe in trade being diverted from British ships into foreign vessels, on which the wages of the seamen are much lower? I have heard honorable senators opposite argue that British seamen should be paid the same rate of wages as is paid to Australian seamen, and yet the action of theirleaders is responsible for cargo which should be carried by British ships being transferred into foreign vessels. Apparently they have no genuine desire to assist the British seamen. 
No, but it will affect those who are inciting them to strike. I remind  Senator Findley  that these men did not come out of their own volition. 
By  Mr. Walsh  and his colleagues. Is that the official manifesto? 
I am dealing with the situation in Sydney and Melbourne. From the evidence available it should be patent to all that, if these men had been left alone they would not have left their ships. One has only to read the statements of Walsh, Garden, and Johannsen, when the dispute first arose, to see that they were influenced by the action of these so-called leaders. 
If they were not these men will not be affected by the passage of this bill. If they have not been guilty of an offence under the Immigration Act they cannot be deported. The fight put up by honorable senators opposite to=-day has been, not in support of genuine trade unionists, but on behalf of Walsh, Garden, and Johannsen. 
Honorable senators opposite are not sincere in their opposition. 
I claim to have as good a knowledge of the average working man in. Australia as any honorable senator opposite. I came from a family of workers. I have had a difficult row to hoe, and I have toiled as hard as any man in Australia. A majority of the members  of the trade unionsin Australia are conscientious, honest men, who welcome such legislation as this. They have been tired long since of incessant industrial disputes, which have been placing them in most unfortunate circumstances. If men such as those whose names I have mentioned cause industrial trouble, interfere with the trade and commerce of the country, and cause distress to a large section of the community, they should be properly dealt with. Australia is no place for them. We have a country blessed by Providence, more, perhaps, than any other, and if our people work unitedly under the laws which have been passed for their protection our prosperity will be unbounded. But no country can progress under a policy such as that adopted by these present leaders of trade unionism. Although I regret there should have been any necessity to introduce the bill, I wholeheartedly support it. We should all be prepared to recognize that the Commonwealth law is supreme, and . that whenever it is necessary to seek the assistance of a State in carrying out Commonwealth laws, that assistance should be readily forthcoming. I trust that the measure will soon become law, and if it is found that there are men in Australia whose actions have necessitated inquiry, I hope that they will be fairly dealt with. If found guilty they should be compelled to leave the country. 
Of an offence against the Commonwealth law. 
 I hope, by a close observance of the Standing Orders, to conclude, within five or ten minutes, the few remarks I wish to make in support of the bill. Possibly my remarks may thereby be rendered much less interesting than those of others who have spoken, but I feel that at this hour of this day it is the duty of honorable senators who have yet to speak to consider the feelings of those who have preceded them, and of those likely to follow. The bill is entitled " a bill for an act to provide for the appointment of peace officers and for other purposes," but any title given to the debate would be too extensive to recapitulate at the present time. I desire to make one or two remarks, first, as to the necessity for the bill, and, secondly, as to its urgency.  Its  necessity has been brought about, strange to say - it may be only a coincidence - by the action of persons who belong to the party of the honorable senators who occupy seats on the opposite side of the chamber. At the inception of Federation it was recognized as sensible and reasonable that asthe services tobe performed were the same as those which were necessary prior to federation, the States in return for the grants made to them by the Federal Government - and still being made - should allow their police to be used for such work as might be necessitated by the procedure of the courts and the enforcement of their decisions. That is implied in that section of the Constitution which demands the recognition of the Federal courts by State authorities. Federal jurisdiction is, of course, as honorable senators know, not limited to matters demanding the employment of the police, but State recognition of it is, as I have said, implicitly required under section 5 of the Constitution. That arrangement worked well for some 20 years. No objection was taken to it by the States or by the Commonwealth. But, unfortunately, on three occasions the States have manifested an inclination to give effect to Commonwealth action only when it was in keeping with their political views. That this grave dereliction of duty on the part of the States has occurred is to be regretted. The worst offender in this respect has been the State which I have the honour to assist in representing. The duty of a government, as I see it, and as honorable senators opposite see it during election periods, is to look after the interests of the people, irrespective of the political party to which they belong. It came as a most unpleasant surprise to the Commonwealth to find that the Governments of certain States would allow the use of their police forces only when the action to be taken was in what it considered their party's interest. That has happened on three occasions; first in Queensland, secondly in Western Australia - a very bad case - and the last, recently, in New South Wales. The States having thus unwarrantably refused to give effect to legislation passed in the supreme Parliament of the Commonwealth, I ask, is it to be set aside, because there is no effective means of administering it? 
The only course open to the Government is that which it is now pursuing. The Government is dealing with the situation in a businesslike, commonsense manner, and with the intention of continuing what hitherto has been done by the observance of a constitutional agreement. The States are causing the Commonwealth Government to adopt procedure which involves the duplication of expense, but still the situation has to be faced. The introduction of the bill is due to the fact that the Commonwealth has found that to enforce its laws" it is necessary, owing to the failure of some of the States, to establish a police force of its own. 
I think there are only two or three of its members left, and they are engaged on various duties in which police officers are not usually employed. I do not know whether that police force was appointed under statute, but I think it was not. It is regrettable that the action contemplated . should be necessary, and the more regrettable that it should be rendered necessary by what I can only describe as a breach of faith on the part of certain States, as well as the justifiable apprehension on the part of the Commonwealth Government that if three of the States have failed to support it, the other three States, under similar circumstances, may follow their example should an emergency arise. I suppose also that it may be regarded as a peculiar coincidence that on each of the three occasions when this dereliction of duty, this breach of faith, has occurred, the State Government concerned has been composed of the same political party as my friends opposite. It is surprising that honorable senators opposite should hold the belief that they are going to sweep the polls at the next elections. If they do succeed on the appeal to the people, I do not know what is going to become of the administration of Federal law. However, I do not think that their expectations will be&gt; realized. If, in a humble way, I may be permitted to offer counsel to honorable senators opposite, I urge them to drop their quixotic attitude. They tell us that the action now being taken by the Government will mean its ruin. If they believed that, I am, perfectly certain they would not liftone finger, or speak one word to avert such a fate. So I ask them not to be so quixotic ; but to let this Government rush on to its fate. The Government, I have no doubt, and this party which supports it, are prepared to accept full responsibility for this step, which the Ministry considers necessary in the interests of Australia.' After all, it will be, so to speak, our funeral if the people of Australia fail to endorse a policy of common sense to ensure the prosperity and good government of this country. With regard to what has been said about the urgency of the bill, I do not suppose that we on this side, any more than honorable gentlemen opposite, like to be brought back to our legislative duties on unaccustomed days-, especially on those days when amusements, so dear to the heart of the average Australian, are going on around us. We do not like to be denied the little holidays which occasionally come our way. It seems to me that several months have elapsed - actually only a few hours have passed - since.  Senator Gardiner  regretted that, owing to the action of the Government over this business, he had been obliged to cancel arrangements' which he had made yesterday to return to Sydney. I am wondering if the honorable senator thought of the position of those passengers on, say, the  Euripides  whose journey was  terminated so abruptly in Melbourne, instead of being allowed to continue their voyage to Sydney. There were, I understand, about 200 of them so inconvenienced. 
It would appear, according to  Senator Gardiner,  that any inconvenience suffered by these people is of no account compared with the inconvenience occasioned an honorable senator.  His  complaint, perhaps, may be taken as a true criterion of the regard which honorable gentlemen opposite have for the happiness of those whom -they are called upon to govern. Already I find that I have exceeded the time limit which I set myself when I rose to speak. But before resuming my seat, I should like to say that if the boast of the Leader of the Opposition, and of several of his followers, concerning the issue of the next election - they have spent no inconsiderable portion of their time in threatening and intimidating, or endeavouring to threaten and intimidate, honorable senators on this side - prove true, I have every reason to believe, from recent happenings, that the administration of the Federal law, in at all events some directions, will be remarkably lax, and coloured by favouritism in the extreme. Because, I believe that the bill is urgent, and absolutely necessary; because I believe it to be the only solution of an extremely difficult problem, I consider it my bounden duty to the people T represent, to Australia, and to the Empire, as well as necessary for my own self-respect, to give it my whole-hearted support. 
I compliment the honorable senator  (Senator Kingsmill)  who has just resumed his seat upon the very reasonable presentation of his views. Other honorable senators opposite have spoken in the harshest of terms concerning the manner in which honorable senators on this side have dealt with the problem that confronts us. As I listened to  Senator Guthrie,  I was afraid that once more he intended to present us with a chamber of horrors. He gave us a thrilling description of what was happening in another part of the world. We all know that Russia is on the map, and that there is "a Soviet Government in power in that country. We know also that there are communistic agents in every civilized country of the world, including Australia. We recall also that, before the Soviet regime, Russia was under the heel of Czardom, and that unnamed horrors were perpetrated by the Russian autocracy. But I have read many of Tolstoi's works, and I know what was the fate of those intellectuals who endeavoured to make Russia a country fit for decent people to live in. I admit that there are communists " in Australia. I remind  Senator Lynch  also that many years ago there were Fenians and dynamiters in Ireland, as well as Chartists in England. Transportation was their fate. Some of the finest stock that Great Britain ever produced came to Australia, not as free agents, but as convicts, and to-day there are thousands of their descendants in this country. I do not approve of the economic doctrines of the communists, and as a member of the Australian Labour party I recorded my vote for their expulsion, from the party, because I believe that the policy they enunciate and the proposals they make for the attainment of their objective, are unpalatable to Australian democracy. Every lover of freedom in the Old World protested against the transportation of the flower of Britain's manhood, just as to-day we object to this proposal to deport certain industrial leaders or other people- from this country. We believe that they should have the same right to advocate what they consider' to be the best system for the government of society. 
Because we did nob approve of their policy. But expulsion from a party and deportation from a country are totally different things. Every political party claims the right to expel undesirable members from its ranks. It has been done before, and it will be done in the future. The Labour party is opposed to this bill because it violates the fundamental principles of liberty. Senators Payne and Guthrie again to-day pictured the results to the primary producer of the hold-up of the ships. They said that thousands of bales of wool are waiting to be carried oversea, and that those who are opposing this bill are responsible for their remaining in Australia. What have honorable senators opposite done to settle this dispute? A few weeks ago, the Senate discussed what is popularly known as the Deportation Act.  Our  advice to honorable senators then was to " call off your dogs " ; that the strike would not be settled by threats, but by the efforts of the able and courageous men who direct the great industrial movement through the trades and labour councils of Australia. The Government was impotent. It dared not use the power that it possessed, because capitalism did not want it to do so. The strike was settled by the efforts of  Mr. Charlton, Mr. Lang, Mr. Holloway  and other men who are connected with the industrial movement. All that the Government did was to try to "sool" on the dogs of war. 
They conferred with our people. 
The Government desired it to have an effect similar to that which is sought by this bill. It is asserted that the desertion of their ships by the British seamen was engineered in Australia by the leaders of the Australian Seamen's Union.  Mr. Havelock  Wilson's cablegram to  Mr. Walsh  gives the lie to that statement. That cablegram said, "You are 28 days too late." Before a meeting of British seamen was held in Australia the sailors in the ports of Great Britain, South Africa and Canada were on strike. The dispute has developed into one between the executive officers and the majority of the members of the British Seamen's Union on the one hand, and, on the other, a powerful minority who have repudiated the agreement which was entered into by their officers. The majority of the men who are on strike in Australia to-day were at sea when that agreement was signed, and they had no knowledge of the reduction in their wages. When they reached Canada, South Africa and Australia, they showed their resentment of the action of their executive officers, and the majority of the members of their .union in England, by going out on strike. Walsh, Casey, and Garden were not in South Africa, Canada or England. Yet according to statements that have been made in this Senate, and repeated  ad libitum,  the whole dispute, which is international in its operation, was initiated in Australia. That contention is so ridiculous and absurd that another reason must be found for the introduction of the bill. Honorable senators opposite desire that the wool and other primary produce shall be taken from Australia. How are we to accomplish that? Not by sending special police officers to New South Wales and placing the hand of the Commonwealth law on the shoulders of these so-called strike leaders. The Government of the State of New South Wales has refused to cooperate with this Government in that proposal, and it is perfectly justified in its action. Five thousand British seamen are supposed to be led by four revolutionary communists, yet so far there has not been an act which would justify the arrest of one man for the most petty offence.  Hon  orable senators opposite are surprised at the refusal of the Government of NewSou!^ Wales to allow itself to be made a tool of the Commonwealth Government, If these men had committed acts of violence, and life and property were in danger, I have not the slightest hesitation in saying that the full power aud authority of the State Government would be put into operation against them without any appeal from the Commonwealth Government. I am anxious that the deepsea vessels shall get away from Sydney as quickly as possible. 
I know that the British seamen's strike cannot be won in Australian ports. If I were asked to advise those men, I should say to them, "As good unionists, accept the decision of the majority of your mates in England, go back to Britain, and put your house in order there." The Government, however, desires to arrest certain men. What have they done? The British seamen are strangers in a strange land, and the trade unionists of New South Wales are merely feeding, clothing, and housing them whilst the dispute is in existence. They sympathize with their brother seamen because of the low wage that they are receiving. This measure will not bring about industrial peace. On the contrary, its aim is to incite industrial strife. If men are arrested, practically every boat employed in the interstate service will be tied up. I, therefore, advise the Government to use its power - 'and authority, in conjunction with the leaders of the industrial movement, to bring the parties together and have the ships manned. If the negotiations that are being carried on by  Mr. Lang, Mr. Willis, Mr. Holloway,  and others break down, and there is a continuance of this strike, the Government will not be able to escape its responsibility. If wool and other produce is left here for months,  Senator Guthrie  will be more responsible than any other man, because of the attitude that he is adopting in this matter. 
Those who lead strikes and those who take part in them know that when they cease work their dependants suffer most acutely. 
I know it, and they know it. But they also know from experience that reform has been brought about only by sacrifice. They are prepared to make that sacrifice. If the Seamen's Union in Great Britain had declared in favour of the cessation of work because of this reduction in the wages of the men, I should have supported it up to the hilt. Scandalous and disgraceful conditions have been farced upon the British seamen during' the last three or four years. At the conclusion of the war,  Mr. Lloyd  George said : " Victory is ours ; the Allies axe victorious. Our enemies are defeated. Great Britain, in the years to come, will be a land fit for heroes to live in." Many of those heroes were seamen. One cannot wonder that they ha*re revolted against even their own union officers and executive because they haVe been asked to accept this reduction in wages. Great Britain has 2,000,000 unemployed men and women, who, with many children, are living on what has been described as a charity dole. Many of the seamen took grave risks during the war, and it is astounding to me that honorable senators opposite, who applauded them in those days, are condemning them to-day for resenting an unfair reduction of their wages.  Senator Pearce  told us to-day that the Government was justified in introducing the bill, because of revolutionary conduct on the part of certain persons in New South Wales. I should like to know what justification he had for making that remark. During the maritime dispute of a few weeks ago, when practically all the shipping in Australia was hung up, not a single member connected with the seamen's organizations was prosecuted for a misdemeanour. The Minister said that a revolution was brewing, but he produced no evidence to that effect, and none of the newspapers have been able to obtain any. He also interjected during the debate: "What about the wages paid to German seamen." Does he wish our seamen to accept the wages and conditions that prevail on German ships?  Senator Guthrie  said that our wheat, wool and other produce was being transported on foreign vessels. How did those vessels get here ? Did they come by wireless? The dispute has only been in progress two weeks. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT. - This bill does not deal with the seamen's dispute 
But it deals with a proposal to create a police force which the Government desires to take certain action in consequence of the shipping dispute. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT.  - The honorable senator has dealt exhaustively with the shipping dispute, and I ask him now to give some attention to the bill. 
The responsibility for whatever happens in consequence of the passing of this bill will belong entirely to the Government and its supporters. The Labour party will oppose the measure in every way in its power.  Senator Guthrie,  this evening, referred to Johnson as Johannsen. The mistake that Johannsen made when he changed his name during the war period was that he did not call himself Windsor instead of Johnson. The Labour party is entirely opposed to the deportation of respectable and law-abiding citizens. Personally, I should vote against the deportation of even my most bitter personal or political enemy. Any honorable senator who understands the basic principles of British liberty would do the same. The bill is a stigma on British jurisprudence. No one who professes to believe in liberty and freedom can honestly support it. Some of my best friends have come to this country from other parts of the world. My friend  Senator Lynch,  for instance, came from Ireland. Others have come from England, Scotland and Wales. Chartists came here because of the treatment they received in their own land. They all came with a desire to improve their conditions, and to make this country better and freer than the one they left behind. I have seen men leave the shores of England with a tear in their eye and a lump in their throat. They loved their country, but not the conditions under which they had been obliged to live there. The bulk of the population of Australia has descended from people who came from the United Kingdom. That is why our people stand for the great institutions of the old land. It is an insult to the memory of our forebears, and a stigma on the great traditions of the British race, that a bill like this should have been introduced. One of the first acts of the Labour party when it is again in possession of the Government benches will be to remove this stain from our country's fair name. 
I am sorry that we are here tonight, but I should consider myself an unworthy Australian if I failed to record my protest against this blot on Australian history. 
The bill provides that the Government may appoint " ranks or grades " of officers. That may mean a strong force. The party to which I belong stands, among other things, for peace and justice. The present Government has shown that it stands for disruption and injustice. I am convinced that the people of Australia will indicate their opinion of the recent actions of this Government by rejecting it decisively at the coming election. Many members of this Chamber were born in Australia, but those who came here from other countries came, I have no doubt, because they had a desire to improve their conditions. Some of them believed in certain' great principles which they have since sold, and they are now working hand in hand with the oppressors of Labour. One honorable senator opposite told me the other day that he would like to see me with an axe, cutting down trees for him - without payment, of course. I am bold enough to say that he is glad that he did not have to cut down trees when he was walking through Queensland.  Senator Reid  was once very popular in Queensland, but he does not now express the sentiments that made him popular. 
The honorable senator desires to deport, not only the workers of mis country, but also those who are fighting for the workers. This bill is a political dodge, because honorable senators are quite well aware that, although they may appoint policemen, the workers of Australia will see that no one is deported. The trouble is that when some men attain a certain position they get. swelled heads, and think that they can do all sorts of things. They may do so for. a little while; but the workers are now awake. They have now begun to realize their power. It is true that, by a fluke, there is now in control of the affairs of the 
Commonwealth a Government anxious to embarrass them. It may do so for ft while. It may seek to foist on some other country people who are not wanted in Australia; but I claim that we, as a nation, have no right whatever to foist on any other country people we cannot handle ourselves. A person considered bad for Australia must be equally bacl for any other part of the world. The individual who breaks the law ought to be dealt with by the country in which the law is broken. If persons are to be deported, where can we send them? Some years ago, one man who was deported from' Australia was sent all over the world, and no country would have him. That may happen again. If a person is deported, and no other country will' have him, I suppose he will have to be dropped overboard. But I object to murder. The workers of this country are opposed to injustice. This Government has done more propaganda work for the Labour party than the party itself could do with an expenditure of £50,000. Although we resist this bill, and will fight it to the last ditch, its introduction has awakened the liberty-loving people of Australia to the danger confronting them. It has taken hundreds of years to reach the stage of civilization at which we have arrived, and now the party in control of the affairs of the Commonwealth 'is anxious to drag us back to the point from which we started. It would like again to see little girls employed in coal mines, but Labour will not allow such things. The masters of honorable senators opposite want on the Australian coast the conditions which prevail on ships manned by Asiatics. Australian seamen are paid £18 2s. 6d. a month, and British seamen are paid £8 10s.; but Asiatics are paid only £3 10s. Of course, honorable senators want black labour on our coast. It is part of their programme. This bill is part of the little joke. 
Why are they needed? 
Why did you not vote yesterday against a proposal to hold a special sitting to-day? If you had done so we should not be here now. 
That matter has already been decided, and cannot be referred to again. I ask the honorable senator to address honorable senators through the Chair, and to keep his remarks relevant to the bill. 
Is the honorable senator addressing that remark to me? 
The honorable senator is distinctly out of order. My responsibility is to see that the debate is relevant, and to maintain order. If the honorable senator wishes to address his remarks to the Minister, he should do so through the Chair. 
I again direct the honorable senator to address the Chair. 
Order ! Interjections which are, of course, disorderly, are being invited by  Senator McHugh.  I have allowed the honorable senator, in common with other honorable senators, considerable latitude, and I now ask him to discuss the bill. 
The honorable senator has already made that statement several times. 
Relevance and not repetition is required in debate. 
I have already pointed out that the honorable senator has repeated that expression several times seemingly in defiance of my ruling, and I therefore ask the honorable senator to discontinue his speech for tedious repetition. 
Yes. 
Order ! The honorable senator must not reflect on a decision of the Chair. 
.- I move- 
That the word "officers" be left out, with a view to insert in lieu thereof the word " prevention". 
The clause will then read - 
This act may be cited as the Peace Prevention Act 1925. 
Every one knows that, prior to the introduction of this bill, steps were being taken to effect a settlement of the strike of British seamen. This measure is not calculated to further the cause of peace. On the contrary, it will aggravate the trouble. I know of no man who has done more to bring a.bout peace than  Mr. Lang,  the Premier of New South Wales. 
The honorable senator's amendment is irrelevant. If he can prove relevancy, I shall be prepared to hear him. The amendment must be relevant to the purpose of the bill. 
I have said, is doing all he possibly can to ensure a peaceful settlement of the dispute; but he has refused to allow police officers in New South Wales to take any action under the deportation law. As a consequence, Parliament has been engaged since yesterday on the consideration of this measure. I may be permitted to refer to certain remarks made during the second-reading debate. I listened attentively to  Senator Ogden,  and especially to his  apologia  that he was speaking on behalf of and for the trade unionists of Australia. 
The honorable senator is out of order in referring to the debate on the second reading. 
I find that the standing order is the reverse of what I thought it was. It precludes an honorable senator, in the Senate, from referring to the proceedings in committee. I shall be glad if the honorable senator will now confine his remarks to the clause of the bill. 
 The Attorney-General will administer the act. In such cases appointments are always made by the Minister. That is the practice in the States also. The Attorney-General will have the power to appoint and to dismiss. The honorable senator is familiar with the practice that is followed. Although the Governor-General in Council is mentioned in certain cases, it is the Minister who takes the executive minute to the Executive Council. 
5],  - The Minister may be satisfied with his explanation, but I am not. lt is altogether unsatisfactory from my point of view. I consider that the power to appoint these officers should rest' with Parliament. I understand that an amount of  £9,000  is provided on the Estimates for the payment of officers of this description.  1  do not know why the existing Commonwealth Police Force, which numbers  36  officers in New South Wales, could not do what' the Government requires. In any case, we ought to have some information as to the rates the Government proposes to pay. It would be a food thing to fix the amount at thegure the British seamen receive. We ought, also, to know how many officers it is proposed to appoint. The Government may intend to appoint the whole community. The Attorney-General is a capable officer - in my opinion, the only capable member of the Ministry - but we ought to have some check upon him, I can see no reason why Parliament should not fix the salary of these peace officers in the same way as it fixes the salary of customs officers. I have .no desire to delay the committee unnecessarily, but I ask the Minister not to compel us to pass this clause hurriedly. 
 Mr. President,  I understand that it is your intention to suspend the sitting until Monday. I therefore move - 
That the committee have leave to sit again at a later hour. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have to remind honorable senators that if we do not have a untinuous sitting, resuming on Monday, the staff at the Government Printing Office  will have to be kept on duty after midnight to-night. I have, therefore, decided that the proper course for me to follow in order to meet, not only the convenience of the Senate, but also that of another place, is to suspend the sitting until 11 o'clock on Monday morning. 

 Sitting suspended from 11. SS p.m. until 

By meeting on Monday morning, the Senate is do'-ng what it should always do, and now that we have ample time, the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  and his supporters will, I hope, allow the committee to discuss the bill in a reasonable manner. It will, I think, be admitted that on Saturday honorable senators on this side did not display 'any desire to unnecessarily delay the passage of the bill. This clause, in common with others already passed, bears the stamp of hasty drafting. For instance, the number of peace officers to be appointed has not been limited, neither is the maximum amount of expenditure mentioned. It is contrary to constitutional procedure to vote unlimited sums of money to any government. This is an appropriation bill. 
No, but it oan be appropriated under clause 2, which has -already been passed by the committee. I have no desire to delay or aggravate the Minister, but he will surely admit that a provision which enables the Government to appropriate an unlimited sum of money is unconstitutional. As the Government has acted similarly before, this proposal is not contrary to precedent, but in any such measures as this we cannot be too careful about fixing the maximum amount to be voted. I wish to give notice that I intend to move - 
That not more than 100,000 peace officers shall bc appointed under this act without the consent of Parliament. 
That limits the number to be appointed, and will to some extent limit the amount to be appropriated under clause 2. I do not think honorable senators opposite can say that I am endeavouring to hamper the Government by limiting the number of peace officers to 100,000. Another amendment I intend to move will provide that- 
No more than ?25,000,000 shall be expended in any one year on the salaries, maintenance, and upkeep of peace officers. 
In these two suggested amendments I have allowed a fairly wide margin, and, therefore, cannot be charged with hampering the Government, or interfering in any way with the administration of this measure when it becomes an act. 
I should not. 
Because the honorable senator and his supporters have given the Government power to appropriate an unlimited amount. Under the suggested amendment I have quoted, the expenditure will be limited. It seems that the Rt.  Hon.  Stanley Melbourne Bruce, the Rt.  Hon.  George Foster Pearce, and  Dr. Earle  Page are becoming Australian Mussolinis, and are creating an army of men for their own ulteriormotives. No other construction can be placed upon their actions. We should be supplied with some information as to how this money is to be expended. The suggested amendment fixes a maximum, which the Government has not provided. I have asked for information as to the direction in which the money is to be expended on the appointment of peace officers, and, in a smart and effective way, the Minister replies by moving " That the committee do now divide." That is the only intelligent reply that we have received to any questions asked during the discussion of this bill. ' I also intend to move - 
That the names of the peace officers to be appointed under this act shall be published in the  Commonwealth Government Gazette,  showing their rank, and the amount of remuneration they shall receive for their services- 
(Senator Newland). - The honorable senator should indicate where he wishes his suggested, amendments to be incorporated in the bill, and, having done so, should submit, one at a time. 
(Senator  Newland).  - As the committee is now dealing with clause 3, I ask the honorable senator to confine his remarks to that clause. 
The honorable senator will not be in order. 
The honorable senator will not be in order in moving the amendments he has read on this clause. If he desires to submit them in the form of a new clause, he must do so when the committee has disposed of clause 3. 
I rule that the suggested amendments are not relevant to this clause. 
No peace officer appointed under this act shall arrest or molest in any way any person recommended for deportation unless such person has been tried by a judge and jury in the courts of Australia. 
That is irrelevant to the clause now before the committee. 
(Senator Newland).  - The honorable gentleman's time has expired. I point out that the first two amendments indicated by him should properly be added to clause 2, which has been passed. It would be necessary, if he wishes to include them in the measure, to move for the recommittal of the bill at the proper stage. As for the other amendments, I shall be glad if he will indicate where he proposes to have them inserted in the bill. 
As the Minister has pointed out, the Leader of the Opposition has not formally moved his amendments. Unwittingly, I accepted them. 
. -We should not hurriedly pass this clause. I object to the words "peaceofficer" in the first line. It is a misleading designation of the officer proposed to be appointed. 
It would be a ridiculous title to give any officers appointed under this measure. We all know that there is an international peace movement in progress, and that, associated with it, are some of the world's most intellectual men and women. This movement has for its objective the disarmament of the nations, and a state of peace on earth and good-will towards all men. This bill is for a totally different purpose. It will prevent industrial peace. No one can, by any stretch of the imagination, say that the need for these proposed " peace " officers exists. Consider what an extraordinary position would be created by their appointment. There are police officers in all the States of the Commonwealth. Why then should the Commonwealth Government appoint "peace" officers to carry out duties of the same nature? One would be called a "police" man, and apparently the other a " peace " man. How ridiculous it would be when they would both be doing the same kind of work. In any case, we should have some information as to the number of " peace " officers to be appointed and the periods of their appointment. Why should there be a blank in the clause? Are honorable senators who support the Government prepared to vote for a clause under which "peace" officers may be appointed for any period? We should not speedily pass legislation that may enable the Government to appoint a considerable army of peace officers for any period that it chooses. There is another aspect of the matter. Those who are appointed will not be allowed to leave the force unless they give three months' notice of their intention to do so. The Government apparently intends to make permanent appointments. I hope that the Minister will state the number of appointments that the Government has in view, and the remuneration which each man will receive. 
Surely I have a right to ask what period the appointments will cover, and what salary is to be paid. 
You, sir, have permitted me to make a passing reference to certain blanks in the clause. The oath is merely an incidental matter, but the period of appointment is all-important. I, of course, admit that these officers must take an oath before they will be able to carry out their duties. That having been done, an arrangement will be entered into between the Government and the appointees respecting the period of appointment and the salary that they are to receive. We are entitled to have information upon those matters. 
That explanation does not satisfy me. A similar statement was made respecting another force that was brought into existence by a previous Government. We were then led to believe that only temporary appointments were to be made, but this has become a permanent institution. If this Government is again returned to power it will make a permanent institution of the force that it is. proposed to appoint under this bill. I strongly object to that. 
 This is an opportune time - 
I desire to move for the insertion of a new clause to precede the next clause in the bill. I think I shall be in order in doing that. I move - 
That the following new clause be inserted :  - 3a. Not more than 100,000 peace officers shall be appointed under this act without the consent of Parliament. 
Some motive is actuating the Government, and I desire to know what it is. 
I am leaving no loophole for the Government to charge me with an attempt to make the force too few in number. I shall welcome from  Senator H.  Hays an amendment to limit the number to 50. On the present year's Estimates there is an amount of £9,000 for a Commonwealth police force. I understand that there are 36 members of that force in New South Wales. I do not know what are the numbers in the other States. We are dealing with this measure in the dark. If  Senator Pearce  will make a full statement of the position, he will not hear another word from me; but I am not going to accept legislation that may be used for any purpose. 
A statement of the reason for introducing this measure, the number of peace officers that it is proposed to appoint, the salary that each is to receive, and the estimated annual cost. 
The right honorable gentleman did not state the number of officers that it is proposed to appoint, or the expenditure that will be incurred. Those are important matters. 
What is the use of  Senator Reid  trying to pick a quarrel with a man who holds the high and responsible position of Premier of New South Wales? This Government has already enrolled in New South Wales a large body of police officers. How many officers does the Government propose to appoint, and how much money does it intend to spend? 
Honorable senators supporting  Senator Pearce  canjudge for themselves as to the usefulness or otherwise of his answer. The sum of £9,000 is provided on the Estimates for the maintenance of Commonwealth police. I understand that 36 of these officers are located in New South Wales. Why could not they be used if what the Government desires is, as we are told, simply to serve a summons? Why is there need to pass this bill, and so to establish  a  new department? My whole intention, as a member of this chamber, is to conserve tha people's money, and to prevent waste. I think I may truthfully say that I am more careful about the expenditure of public money than I am about the expenditure of my own private money. 
I know both  Senator Lynch  and  Mr. Lang,  and I say deliberately that a more conscientious man than  Mr. Lang  I do not know. He is a man of high standing and high character. Nothing can be said truthfully against him. Criticism of persons who hold the highest positions in the land will not improve the government of this country.  Senator Lynch  ought to regard his responsibilities more seriously than to make such charges on the flimsy evidence that is available to him. It is an outrage. 
I realize, sir, that you are in a difficult position; but you have permitted  Senator Lynch  to interject, and I desire to reply to his interjection. If I am not permitted to do so, I must request that  Senator Lynch  be asked to withdraw it, for it reflected upon  Mr. Lang's  integrity. 
It certainly conveyed to me an insinuation that  Mr. Lang  will not do his duty, and that hurt me. It is offensive to me, and any honorable senator has the right- to request that an offensive statement/ be withdrawn. 
My interpretation of the Standing Orders, with all due respect to you, sir, is that any honorable senator may demand the withdrawal of an objectionable statement. 
As a representative of New South Wales, it hurt me very much that the highest officer in our land should have been referred to in the  terms' which  Senator Lynch  used. I am pleased also, sir, to discover that honorable senators may exercise their rights in this chamber if they know how to enforce them. I have moved this new clause for the reason that I think a limitation ought to be placed on the Government. It may be said that the Government does not propose to appoint anything like 100,000 peace officers, but, personally, I have grave suspicion as to their intentions. It has been said, "Whom the gods wish to destroy they first make mad." The Bruce-Page-Pearce combination has gone so far in maladministration that, in my opinion, it .has lost its balance. 
In conformity with the practice that has been adopted that anything that an honorable senator takes exception to must be withdrawn, I withdraw it. My own opinion is that the government of the country is in incompetent hands. 
If you, sir, decide that  it is unparliamentary, I withdraw it. The Government is looking round for some means by which it may escape the just .condemnation of the electors. It deserves condemnation, for it has failed in everything it has touched, except, perhaps, in its efforts to assist its friends. 
I have no desire to come into conflict with you, sir, but it would have been more in order had you asked me whether I intended to connect my remarks with the subject before the Chair, and in support  of my submission that the Government has some ulterior motive in desiring the appointment of these officers. I was pointing out that its past conduct justified me in adopting that view. It must have some reason for pushing forward so hurriedly with this measure. Why will not  Senator Pearce  tell us how many officers he proposes to appoint, and the salary he proposes to pay them? 
But surely some limit should be stated. I have suggested 100,000. Perhaps the Government would prefer the limit to be 1 per cent, of the population of each State. It may think that it would be better to say that 1,000 officers should be appointed in each State. Apparently, however, the only speech that  Senator Pearce  can make is: " I move that the committee do now divide?"  His  opportunity for making even that motion will soon be gone. I assure him, however, that when the Labour party is in possession of the Government bench it will, at least, respect the rights of the minority. It will permit the minority to discuss its proposals. 
I thank  Senator Pearce  for his contribution to our parliamentary vocabulary. I assure him that I do not desire * his concurrence in any remarks that I may make. My only fear is that he may at some time publicly approve of something I have said. I ask the committee to limit the number of officers that may be appointed. 
I move - 
That before the word " Peace " the word " Commonwealth " be inserted. 
We have been told that the bill has been introduced because one State of the Commonwealth has declined to allow its policeofficers to be used in carrying out the provisions of the Deportation Act, a measure which in some quarters is considered to be  ultra vires.  On the other hand, we know that the Government of the State of Victoria has intimated its desire to render assistance in carrying out the provisions of that act. In these circumstances, unless the clause is amended in the way I suggest, no one will know under which particular authority - Commonwealth or State - an officer who is carrying out the. provisions of the act is acting. My amendment, if adopted, would prevent confusion arising in this way. Whilst I amon my feet I should like some information. On two occasions this morning I have risen to address the Senate, but each time  Senator Pearce,  the Leader of the Senate, has moved the " gag." 
The Minister has the privilege of being heard before other honorable senators. 
No such agreement shall be set aside, cancelled, or annulled for want of reciprocity. 
I want  Senator Pearce  to explain the words "for want of reciprocity." Clause 3, already agreed to, provides that no person appointed to be a peace officer can' hold that office until he has taken and. subscribed the following oath :  - 
I, A.B., do swear that I will well and truly serve Our Sovereign Lord the King in the. office of Peace Officer, without favour or affection,. malice or ill-will, for the period of ... . from this date, and until I am legally discharged, that I will seek and cause His Majesty's peace to be kept and preserved, and that Iwill prevent to the best of my power, all offences against the same, and that, while I continue to hold the said office, I will, to the best of my skill and knowledge, discharge all the duties thereof faithfully according to law. 
The clause we are now discussing provides that any person who has taken and subscribed that oath shall be deemed to have thereby entered into a written agreement, which is not to be set aside, cancelled, or annulled for want 'of reciprocity. If I entered into an agreement to do certain work, I could not be dismissed until I had done certain things. I would not be allowed to leave my employment without giving clue notice and submitting a reason for so doing. That would constitute a reciprocal arrangement, but under paragrapha reciprocity is impracticable. Surely all the protection must not be on one side. The paragraph is one on which we should be enlightened by a member of the legal fraternity, and perhaps  Senator Elliott  will be willing to explain its meaning. Another clause provides that peace officers cannot resign without the permission of the Attorney-General. They will have to work under whatever conditions may be imposed. 
The honorable senator has exhausted his time. 
.- I move- 
The honorable gentleman will not be in order in submitting an amendment at this stage. The question before the Chair is - 
That the clause he agreed to. 
.- I move- 
That the  following new clause  be  inserted:- 4a.  No peace  officer appointed under  this  act shall  be  permitted  to  carry arms. 
My attention has been drawn to the statement made recently by a gentleman holding a high military and public position that those concerned in this industrial dispute were going to "get it in the neck." Australians are a peaceloving people. Therefore, when we hear  this  talk about giving it to the democracy " in the neck," we might very well feel concerned if arms are permitted men who, under this measure, may have to carry out the orders of officers unrestrained by parliamentary authority. I wish I could get honorable members opposite to view this situation in the light that I do. For a number of years certain people have had an exaggerated idea of the strength of communists in Australia. They are suffering from a condition of hysteria, and imagine that the communists in this country constitute a danger to the Empire. I stand behind no one who threatens or wishes ill to the British Empire. Neither' can I stand behind a government which, startled by rumours that are groundless, legislates in this hysterical manner. May I remind honorable senators opposite of what happened during the last State elections in New South Wales. The communists, led by a gentleman of notoriety,  Mr. "  Jock " Garden, who, I may add, is not the wildeyed agitator with pistols in his, belt and knives sticking out of his boots that some people would have us believe he is, but, on the contrary, is an exPresbyterian minister of the gospel- 
I do not think he did. Probably he was under the impression that the Presbyterian Church was not moving quickly enough in the direction of Christian principles. 
I am sure that the Minister does not wish me to use my public position to make any reflection upon  Mr. Garden  as to the way in which he carried out his duties while in the employ of the Defence Department. 
Much depends on the view taken concerning the action of a man while in the service of the department. The proposed peace officers should not be armed, because so many people believe that peace to make it stick should be " druv in with bagonets " as Lowell said. I was about to explain what happened at the last State elections in New South Wales, when "Jock" Garden led his communists into the political arena. They presented candidates for' the  waterside seats - the strongest of the Labour divisions - and also the coalfield seats. I have not the exact figures, but I can state definitely what happened. 
My amendment seeks to prevent the Government from arming this proposed peace force, and I wish to give my reasons. If I am allowed to pursue my line of . argument, in all probability 1 shall not occupy even the quarter of an hour allotted to me by the Standing Orders. I have stated that there is an exaggerated fear of the communists in Australia. I believe that this fear of revolution from any action which the communists may take is entirely without foundation; that it exists only in the minds of people who suffer from hysteria. Unfortunately, they have become the victims of confidence trick men. 
I do not agree with the Minister. I listened to  Senator. Guthrie  on Saturday, and . I should like to say that usually the honorable senator is not altogether insane. 
I am sorry if I have hurt the honorable senator's feelings. What I meant to say was that .1 do not think that  Senator Guthrie  would declaim against communists, or speak of the danger of revolution, if he did not think that a danger threatened the Commonwealth. 
Every leader of labour has had to submit to the vilification of people who ave opposed to labour. As I have already stated, at the last election in New South Wales, the communists, led by  Mr. Garden,  contested a certain number of selected seats where democracy is most firmly entrenched, and the fact that the twelve candidates representing communistic principles polled less than 800 votes should be a sufficient guarantee that no danger need be apprehended in Australia from that source. It is as well that the Government should know that a certain person has been receiving money from the employers' organizations by pretending to disclose conspiracies that may lead to revolution. Men of the type of  Senator Guthrie  should know this; they should be brought to realize that the confidence trick men are exploiting another source of income. 
I am simply stating what has been done. I can assure  Senator Duncan  that he will have to wait a long time before I use my public position to make a charge like that against any mau, but I think that the Government should know that the confidence tricksters have opened up another avenue of profitable employment by pouring into the willing ears of manufacturers and others alleged plots of a revolutionary nature. 
If there is anything in these! allegations about revolutionary schemes dangerous to the community, the most effective course for the Government is to make a full statement to Parliament and take the people into its  confidence.  No section of sensible men is going to be led off the track of constitutional reform by specious pleas of wildeyed agitators with some proposal for a short cut to reach the  millenium.  There is no graver danger to a democracy than the creation of an armed force. I am afraid - perhaps I am becoming as nervous over this bill as  Senator Pearce  and his colleagues have become over the alleged threatened danger - that unless some satisfactory explanation is forthcoming as to the need for this extraordinary proposal, grave trouble may confront the Commonwealth. As the Minister would not accept my proposal to limit the proposed force to 100,000 men, we may assume that there is to be no limit to the number constituting the force, and, therefore, I warn the Government to refrain from arming it. We have gone through many stirring times when feeling has run high, but with the exercise of a little patience and a little toleration, we have got back to normal again. Some people would like the Australian democracy to move forward smoothly with no harsh words and no clashing of interests. I would not. 1 prefer that a democracy, whilst climbing to a higher social plane, should be active, virile, and forceful. 
Exactly. For that reason, we should prove to them that democracy, secure in the justice of its claim to govern the people, can beat them with its own methods. To meet them with their methods, is to admit that one of our bulwarks - constitutional government and the enforcement of the laws by the properly constituted courts of this country - has failed us. I refuse to admit that, and that is why I want to restrain the Government from arming this new force that it proposes to call into existence. Surely honorable senators opposite do not believe that they must blindly follow  Senator Pearce.  I have not often a kindly wordto say of the right honorable gentleman, but because of my long association with him, I make bold to congratulate him upon his capture of the enthusiastic and unquestioning support of the whole of his followers. I look upon that as the conquest of mind over matter. 
No fear. I would not say anything offensive of the men whose support I wish to gain. When I returned to this Senate, after a short absence, I found that what was formerly a doubtful, questioning support by those who follow  Senator Pearce  had been turned into a loyal, unquestioning support. Apparently honorable senators opposite are now prepared to say, "We will stand with our eyes bandaged and our mouths open waiting for anything that  Senator Pearce  may care to give us, whether it be agreeable or disagreeable."  Senator Pearce  is to be congratulated upon his illustration of the conquest of mind over matter. Ill-advised though it may be for the Leader of the Opposition to say anything nice of the Leader of the Government, . I take this opportunity to express admiration of his skill in having so overcome the scruples of his followers that, instead of being questioning supporters, they now do his bidding unquestioningly. 
If is not temporary. The hand of the mesmerist hasbeen at work, and they are prepared to follow him wherever he leads. The opportunity is now given to them to say that in this law-loving, peaceful Australia of ours we do not want a greater armed force than we now have. 
The type- will always be with us. 
If this legislation has not been designed to punish those men, the Government should be condemned for permitting that rumour tobe so widely spread. If, on the other band, summonses have been or are to be issued against them, the Government should have taken steps to ensure that their- case was not prejudiced before it was brought on.  Senator Guthrie,  in his calm moments, must realize how 'wicked it is to traduce any man who has been charged with an offence. That is getting right away from the principle that underlies the British system of justice. I do not know whether  Senator Guthrie's  name indicates German, descent, but Carlyle has said that Scotsmen are nearly all of German descent. Whether  Senator Guthrie  com.es from Scotland or anywhere else, he is taking up a most un-British attitude when he desires to have men condemned and convicted before they are tried. We, on this side, have always been held up as the representatives of a section of the community that is un-British. I admit that I place Australia so far ahead of other countries that sometimes that charge may appear to have been reasonably levelled against me. But I have never yet advocated for an Englishman, a Scotchman, or an Irishman, a law different from that towhich I was prepared to submit myself. We want to follow all that is good in the British Constitution. 
We want to have that consideration for the rights of every person, but particularly of minorities, which will enable us to deal with them according to our properly enacted laws, and not according to hysterical laws that have been passed by highly nervous people who have become overstrung by imaginary difficulties. I know that the Government is anxious to get the measure through, so I shall not detain thecommittee any longer. 
 I move- 
That the committee do now divide.  Senator Gardiner.  - That is a most intelligent reply. 
 Mr. Chairman- 

 Sitting suspended from 1.5 to 2 p.m. 

Motion (by  Senator Pearce)  proposed - That the committee do now divide. 
On a point of order, I wish to make an explanation. Immediately clause 5 was passed I rose in my place and called you,  Mr. Chairman,  but apparently you did not hear me. It was my intention to move a new clause. I now ask that the usual courtesy be extended to me of permitting me to move my clause before clause 6 is put. If the new clause is not in order, you, of course, will not accept it. 
If the clause is not in order the  Chairman  will say so. I am addressing the Chair. I ask that the ordinary courtesy that is extended to honorable senators be extended to me. Surely I have not put myself beyond that consideration. 
On the report of the  Chairman,  I ask  Senator McHugh  to take the proper course, which is to withdraw and apologize to the  Chairman  for having persistently disregarded his orders. 
I have consulted the  Clerk  as to the actual business that was before the committee, and I am informed that the committee had decided to divide. At that stage questions of any kind are not' permissible, and if  Senator McHugh  or any other honorable senator persisted in attempting to ask them or to interject he was disorderly, and the  chairman  was justified in reporting him. There is a very simple way out of the difficulty, and I ask  Senator McHugh  to take it. 
The honorable senator knows what he ought to do. 
I ask the honorable senator to put himself right with the Senate. 
Order !  Senator McHugh  has not only disobeyed the order of the  chairman,  but he is now disobeying my orders. I name him, but before I call upon the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  to take the usual course,I will give  Senator McHugh  another opportunity to put himself right. He must withdraw and apologize. 

 - Senator McHugh, as a new member of the Senate, may be excused if he is not fully conversant with the requirements of our standing orders. I ask him now to withdraw and apologize. 
.- I move- 
That the following new clause be inserted:- 6a. The peace officers  appointed  under  this act shall not 'arrest  or molest in any way any person recommended for deportation unless such personhas been tried by a judge and jury in the courts  of  Australia. 
This clause' will test the feeling of the committee as to whether any person should be deported without a trial by jury. The bill itself is an attempt to undermine Magna Charta, the great buttress of British liberty for the last 700' years. There is no guarantee that within the next six months there will not be a Labour Government in office. If laws are now enacted to punish labour leaders, honorable senators who pass them cannot object if, when our turn comes, we use those laws to punish anti-union people. Nothing is more inclined to degrade Australia in the eyes of the world than legislation of this kind. I want to prevent this Government, just as I would prevent any government of which I had hopes of being a member, from trying to undermine that bulwark of liberty, trial by jury. I do not know why some people should become incensed at the actions of leaders of unions. The struggle that is now taking place is simply a dispute on British ships which happen to be in Australian waters. The seamen on those vessels are resisting an attempt to reduce their wages by £1 a month. Honorable senators opposite are always most ardent in their desire to participate in any attempt to reduce wages. If there are people in this country whose actions are calculated to injure its trade and commerce, and to prevent the maintenance of peace and good order, they ought to be punished, but not in a way which is contrary to the principles of British law. It is said that certain individuals are objectionable. I have been termed a wrong-doer, although I claim that my chief aim in every action I have taken in the industrial and political field has been for the good of the community. It is not an offence to resist a reduction of wages. I venture to say that if any proposal were made to reduce the salaries of members of the Commonwealth Parliament we should fight most vigorously to defeat it. I measure every man by my own bushel. British seamen, who  were being paid £9 10s. a month, find that their wages have been reduced to £8 10s. a month. What do the old-time labourites,  Senator Reid, Senator Plain, Senator Lynch,  think of such a proposal ? They were more intimately associated with the industrial struggle than I have ever been. The part I played was small compared with theirs.  Senator Lynch  was one of the wildest leaders of the industrial section in his day. No matter how far he may have fallen from grace, there was a time when he found favour in the eyes of the unions because of the enthusiasm with which he espoused their claim for better conditions. The other day he justified some of his earlier conduct by saying that the conditions obtaining then warranted any attack on them. Do not the conditions obtaining to-day warrant an attack upon them? Compare £8 10s. a month, which the seamen are getting, with the wage  Senator Lynch  was getting as a waterside worker in days when the cost of living was very much lower than it is to-day. 
Men to-day display more intelligence. The work a man does is commensurate with what he gets. . If he is not getting a living wage, he cannot be expected to do a fair day's work. If he is not getting a wage with which he can maintain himself and his family in accordance with the best conditions of his class, I do not think it is fair to ask him to slave himself to death. The motto of the working classes is " a fair day's work for a fair day's pay." The working classes are not selfish. They are taxing them-' selves to the extent of £40.000,000 a year in order to encourage manufacturers in Australia. 
I believe 1 am. Honorable senators will agree with me that no man should be molested unless he has first been given that which was given to the barons of England by Magna Charta, the right to a trial by a jury .of his peers. That is not asking too much. Some of us are sufficiently well informed to believe that the gift bestowed by Magna Charta has been of considerable benefit to- the people of Great Britain. 
Like the party with which  Senator Lynch  is associated, the party with which I am associated is calculated in times of excitement to do wrong things, but there is this difference between us - sometimes by accident we do the wrong thing, whereas the honorable senator and his colleagues never even by accident do the right thing. I am asking that before any man is sent out of ' this country he shall have the right to a trial by jury. Honorable senators opposite claim to be the props, stays, and supports of the Empire. I heard  Senator Pearce  on Saturday declare in unmistakable terms that a man born in England, Ireland, or Scotland could never become a full citizen of Australia. In other words, once an immigrant always an immigrant. 
Yes, and apparently with great vim. I do not care who was responsible for the statement, " Once an immigrant always an immigrant " may be the position in the eyes of the law, but I repudiate the sentiment. A British-born citizen of Australia, being a citizen of the Empire, should have the same privileges and rights, no more and no less, than a citizen of the Empire born in Australia. This is a sentiment that will hold the Empire together. The refusal of Australia to trade with Great Britain, and now this refusal to give Britishers " the privileges they have enjoyed since their birth, is in the spirit that makes for independent states and the disintegration of the Empire. 
I repudiate entirely any sentiment of that kind. I repudiate any man who attacks, directly or indirectly, the Empire of which we form a part. I object, also, to this whittling away of rights and liberties of Britishers. I object to this proposal to deport a Britisher who has been resident, in Australia for so many years, has married in Australia, and has had children born to him in Australia. This attempt to put him on a different footing in the eyes of the law from an Australian-born citizen is an Empire-wrecking proposal. Honorable senators are supposed to be calmly deliberating on the policy of the Government, and, apparently, they intend to agree to a proposal that will make for tyranny in administration, which is worse than the tyranny of the law. Imagine Senators Lynch and Plain voting for a measure under which they, as British-born citizens of Australia, men who have done something for Australia, could be arrested, and without trial in a properly constituted court of justice, could be deported and the children born to them in Australia left behind parent- less or compelled to go into exile with them. This is the last time, as far as I am concerned, that I shall attempt in this measure to preserve that uniformity of conditions between Britons and Australians, which I think it is the duty of this Parliament to preserve. 
 I move - 
That the following new clause be inserted: - 7a. (1) The names of peace officers appointed in pursuance of this act shall be published in the  Commonwealth. Government Gazette,  showing their rank and the amount of remuneration they are to receive for their services. 
If Parliament is sitting a list of the names of such officers so appointed, showing their rank and the amount of remuneration they are to receive, shall be laid on the table of the House. 
It is to be regretted that the members of the Ministry and their supporters have permitted themselves to be worked up into such a state of hysteria. 
 It is not very often that we have the pleasure of seeing  Senator Pearce  hysterical. 
When we see legislation of this sort forced through- 
The reflection on the committee is withdrawn, but I object to legislation of this description being passed through in this manner. 
I do. I am  a  careful observer of such things. Fortunately, on occasions like the present, the press of this country is prepared to report some of the remarks of honorable senators on this side. A clause such as I have moved should certainly be embodied in the bill, as we have a right to know to what extent the revenue of this country will be. liable in order to carryout  this hysterical legislation. Although this is the first opportunity I have had to speak on this measure, when I rose the  Chairman  saw the Minister, thus enabling him to apply the "gag." 
I said only that you saw the Minister. 
I have no intention of doing that, because while you are in the Chair you are supreme. For many years I was under the impression that any- man who was born in any part of the British Empire had a perfect right to remain in any part of that Empire that he desired. 
Everything. I am not like honorable senators opposite who, parrot-like, repeat the arguments of their leader. I want to embellish the arguments that have already been advanced. When I was interrupted by  Senator Payne,  I was saying that for many years I was under the impression that any person born in the British Empire had a right to go wherever he chose in that Empire, but I now find that as soon as any portion of the Empire detaches itself from Great Britain, one of the first things that it does is to assume the right to say who shall, and who shall not, enter or remain in its territory. To that principle I am bitterly opposed. I contend that I have as much right in Australia as any one who was incubated in this country. 
The clause which I have moved deals with the financial aspect of this important question.' We, as representatives of the people, have a duty imposed on us to see that lie revenue of the country is not drawn on to excess to carry out this legislation. What is the cause of this hysterical legislation? Has it been introduced because some British seamen have gone on strike? Is there any trouble with the Australian seamen? Have the police in the various States refused to do their duty? Is it necessary that a special Commonwealth police force be organized and superimposed upon the police forces of the States? There is no justification for the action of the Government, From my study of this measure, it appears that it is proposed to clothe these so-called peace officers with very extensive powers. The number to be appointed is problematical; there may be thousands of them. Is it intended to entirely supersede the police forces of the States? If so, the Government ought to give us some indication of its intention. The members of the police forces in all the States are capable of performing the duties of their office. Yet we are told by the Leader of the Government in the Senate that a new Commonwealth police force is necessary. Is that because the work which they will be required to do is of such a despicable, reprehensible, and contemptible character? 
I was under the impression that my remarks had reference to that clause.. This clause gives no indication of the expense that will be incurred by building up a new police force to carry out work that has previously been very efficiently done, excepting possibly in the one instance of issuing new summonses under a measure that was recently passed. The existing Commonwealth police force, as far as I_ know, has been prepared and willing to carry out its work in an efficient manner. We have had no evidence whatever from the Minister, and are not likely to get any, that the police force of New South Wales refused to do its duty. This Government is not prepared to trust the police forces of the various States. It wants a new force to be, I suppose, a replica of the force that was established under the War Precautions Act, and some members of which, I believe, are yet in the service of the Commonwealth. 
I am sorry that the honorable senator cannot see the relevancy of my remarks. 
We should be very careful that we do not enact legislation which would probably be most detrimental to the people of this country. To my mind, the introduction of this bill is a most condemnatory indictment against the police forces of the various States, which apparently for years past have satisfactorily carried out the work of the Commonwealth. A police force is now  to  be organized, ostensibly to make effective the deportation provisions of the Immigration Act. 
I was not very far away from it. This Government does not hesitate to invite people to this country at an expense of hundreds of thousands of pounds. 
I am giving my reason why this chamber should not for one moment consent to the enactment of a measure that will have a most damning effect upon the people of this country. 
SenatorJ. GRANT. - It is the bounden duty of the members of this Parliament, who have the power to impose unlimited taxation upon the public, to see that the revenue so collected is not needlessly expended. I am convinced that this legislation is opposed by 99 per cent. of the people, and that the establishment of a new police force will be a wicked waste of our slender financial resources. We have a right to know from the Minister how many officers it is proposed to appoint. Is it not a fact that the members of the Commonwealth police force now number about 40, of whom 35 are in New South Wales ? There is no necessity whatever to appoint more members to that force. Since the Government, without any rhyme or reason, has determined to appoint a new police force, we have a right to know what expense it will entail. When I introduced a small bill the other day, proposing to exempt a number of widows from the operation of the estate duties taxation, I received no support from the Minister. 
.- I move- 
That the following newclause be inserted :  - 8a. Peace officers appointed under the preceding clause shall not take action against any person resident in Australia unless under warrant issued by the High Court of Australia. 
In my opinion clause 8 gives too much power to any peace officers appointed under this measure. I have a very vivid recollection of the Commonwealth Police Force which was established during the 1914 conscription campaign. Officers enrolled in that body visited, without warrant, the houses of citizens at 2 or 3 o'clock in the morning, frightening women and children, merely because they suspected that certain persons had transgressed the war precautions regulations. Large and competent police forces exist in all the States, and they are quite capable of seeing that law and order are preserved. There is no necessity to appoint a new police force. 
The Government may call them peace officers, but the public will give them their proper designation and call them police officers. 
No matter how much Ministers may endeavour to camouflage the position, the people outside will read into this measure what it really means. The Government proposes to constitute a new police organization in order to carry out the nefarious objects that it has in view. 
I withdraw it. Although the preceding clause refers to peace officers, I maintain that the intention of the - Government is to create a new body of police. The public will not be deceived. I regret that on account of illness, I did not have an opportunity of taking part in the secondreading debate. There are many things that I should have liked to say in regard to the attitude adopted by the Commonwealth Police Force in 1917. 
I should like to have said particularly- 
I submit,  Mr. Chairman,  that you do not know what I am about to say. My intention is not to repeat my previous observation.I was going to say that I regret that I did not have an opportunity previously to refer to the attitude adopted by honorable senators opposite while the second reading of the bill was under discussion. 
I am not endeavouring to do that, but I desire to submit one or two arguments in support of the new clause that I have proposed. The  good sense of honorable senators on both sides should cause them to admit that some provision of the kind is necessary. I regret exceedingly that the proposal submitted by  Senator Gardiner  was not accepted by the committee. I have no doubt that clause 8 and the preceding clauses are a distinct contravention of the principle of trial by jury. Having been brought up to believe that trial by jury is one of the greatest principles embodied in the British Constitution, I enter my emphatic protest against any attempt at its abrogation. 
I move - 
That the following new clause be inserted: - 
The remuneration of the peace officers shall be subject to a majority vote of both Houses of Parliament. 
I cannot accept that amendment. 
I move - 
That the following new clause be inserted: - 9a. This act shall not come into operation until the 1st  day  of  January,  1927. 
If this clause is inserted in the bill, the workers of our community who are seeking to settle this dispute will have a reasonable opportunity to achieve their object. The Government has shown, by its incompetence, that it is not fit to manage a fish-shop, let alone use the tremendous powers that will be conferred upon it if this bill is. passed. By the 1st January, 1927, the people of this country will have placed a different government in power, for I have no doubt that when an opportunity is afforded them to express their opinion of the total failure of the present administration in practically every direction they will be emphatic. The Government, by including the deportation provisions in the recently-passed Immigration Bill, indicated quite clearly that its deliberate intention was to cause industrial strife. Leaders in the industrial movement in Australia, who are not cloaked with anything like the authority and power of the Government, are working strenuously to settle the British seamen's dispute, but the Government, by this proposal to appoint policemen, is endeavouring to. bring about a revolt. It is worth recalling that during the recent Australian seamen's dispute not one worker committed an offence that would justify his prosecution in a law court. The same is true of the workers concerned in the present dispute. If the Government really desires this dispute to be settled it ought to "keep off the grass." I am quite satisfied, however, that, with malice aforethought, it desires to extend the trouble. Even those who may not believe that can hardly disagree with me when I say that it has adopted the best possible course to achieve that end. Its policy during the last month or six weeks is calculated to antagonize every worker in the country. It apparently desires to tie up not only the British and Australian shipping, but also all foreign vessels that come here. I invite honorable senators who consider that they represent the farmers to bear in mind that the result of this must be that all our primary products will be left on our piers and wharfs indefinitely, and  will not reach the world's markets. Even at this late stage I ask the Government to abandon this policy, which is inciting the workers to revolt. In spite of the persistent endeavours of the Government in this direction. I am hopeful that the reasonable, experienced, and courageous leaders of the industrial movement in Australia will settle the British seamen's dispute as effectively as they settled the Australian shipping dispute a few weeks ago. The officers who will be appointed in pursuance of the provisions of this bill are described as peace officers. In my opinion, they could be accurately called Nationalist political organizers. This measure is the meanest form of political propaganda, and, as I have said previously, it is additional evidence of the absolute incompetence of the Government. 
Order ! 
I have already called  Senator Lynch  to order for his disorderly reflection on the work of the committee. 
.- I move- 
That the bill be recommitted for the reconsideration of clauses 1 to 8 inclusive, and  the  consideration of proposed new clauses. 
I am asking the Senate to adopt this course, because in the committee stages of the bill honorable senators were denied a reasonable opportunity to give expression to their views. Throughout the discussion in committee we were up against the motion submitted by  Senator Pearce,  That the committee do now divide." Nevertheless I am optimistic enough to hope that even honorable senators who, by their support of the Government, so consistently prevented free discussion in committee, will yet see that there is some merit in the amendments which I desire to submit. This bill should have had the treatment usually accorded to other measures passed by this Parliament. There can be no need for hurry now. If we are to believe reports in the evening newspapers the offenders, whom the Government are so anxious  to bring before the board, have already been served with summonses. The Minister  (Senator Pearce)  has maintained an air of secrecy about the whole business which I fail to understand. Perhaps I should be pleased that he has been so anxious to pass a law which may deprive him, after the next election, of the companionship of such distinguished ministerial colleagues as  Sir Neville  Howse and  Mr. Pratten.  As for Senators Plain and Lynch, they may pay the penalty of their attack upon union leaders if the electors of Australia a few months' hence declare that they will not tolerate legislators who supported measures of this kind. We can, of course, understand the irritation that must have been caused to  Mr. Bruce, Senator Pearce,  and  Dr. Earle  Page through having to accept British-born people as Cabinet colleagues. When the Government came into office it was boasted that all its Ministers were Australian born. It was a purely Australian government. But there has been a change. Whether this change was due to the capacity of, or, shall I say, intimidation by  Mr. Pratten,  who had .captured the National Association in New South Wales, I cannot say, but it can no longer be claimed for the Cabinet that it is Australian through and through. 
Order! There is nothing in the bill referring to the constitution of the present government. It deals only with the appointment of peace officers. The honorable senator must confine his remarks to the purpose of the bill. 
All this has nothing to do with the question before the Chair. The honorable senator has moved for the recommittal of the bill. He must confine his remarks to reasons why his amendment should be adopted. 
Perhaps the line of discussion which the honorable senator is taking will then be in order; it is not in order at this stage. He is entitled to advance reasons why the bill should be recommitted, but he may not discuss the general principles or the details of his proposed amendments on the motion for the  recommital  of the bill. 
That amendment would not be in order, because the bill is for the appointment of peace officers. 
That has nothing to do with the motion. 
The Senate has no knowledge of anything that took place in committee, except what has been reported to the Senate by the  Chairman  of Committees, and it is not permissible at this stage to discuss at length what occurred in committee. 
That has nothing to do with the recommittal of the bill. A general condemnation of the Government may be in order on. some other occasion, but it is not in order now. 
The only arguments permissible to the honorable senator at this stage are those which give reasons for the recommittal of the bill. 
I have read the bill carefully, and there is nothing in it to say that it refers specifically to Australians, Hindoos, Chinese, or Britishers. 
There is nothing in the bill to say that may be done. The bill makes no such distinction as that which the honorable senator has suggested. I remind the honorable senator that at the second-reading stage he availed himself fully of the opportunity to speak. 
I am concerned only with what the bill says. It makes no such distinction. I ask the honorable senator to get right down to his reasons for the recommittal of the bill. 
The honorable senator is in order in indicating that as a reason for his motion, but he is not now in order in arguing the position generally. If the Senate agrees to the re-committal of the bill, the honorable senator will have his opportunity to argue the matter. 
The honorable senator's remarks are not relevant to the bill. 
The honorable senator is perfectly in order in indicating the nature of his amendment, but he is not in order in discussing it at length at this stage. 
I am concerned only that the honorable senator's remarks shall be relevant. 
If the honorable senator's remarks had been relevant, I should not have participated for one second in the debate. 
The honorable senator's remarks are not relevant to the motion for the recommittal of the bill. 
I ask  Senator Crawford  to withdraw that remark. 
The honorable senator is entitled to say that the statement to which he objects is incorrect. 
The honorable senator's time has expired. 
I cannot put the question until the motion has bee L seconded. 
I second the motion.  Senator Gardiner  has not had sufficient time to set out fully the reasons why the bill should be recommitted, and I desire, therefore,, to give additional arguments in support of his contention. I find that the power to appoint peace officers, instead of being given to the Minister for Home and Territories, is to be delegated to the Attorney-General. In New South Wales I understand that the appointment of the police force is exclusively the function of the Chief Secretary. In that State every possible step is taken to see that the men appointed to these responsible positions are fully qualified by reason of both age and physique to discharge their duties efficiently. Under this bill, however, it is proposed to give the Attorney-General the appointment of these men, and he is to be clothed with power to delegate his powers to some unknown . authority. I should like to see the bill recommitted for the purpose of amending clause 2, with a view to removing from the AttorneyGeneral the power that it is proposed to confer upon him to appoint these officers, and to invest that power in the Minister for- Home and Territories. It is a proper function of the Department of Home and Territories to attend to the internal affairs of the nation. These proposed appointees will have to carry into effect the provisions of" an act that was recently passed by the Parliament, and they ought to possess special qualifications. No provision is made in the bill that they shall pass an examination, or possess any qualification. The Senate . passed recently a measure dealing with the salary of the Commonwealth Railways Commissioner. No hesitancy was shown when it came to specifying the salary that he should receive. The Northern Australian Bill also provided that the members of the proposed commission should receive a salary up to, but not exceeding, a certain sum. There is no such provision in this bill. The salaries of members of- 
Parliament and officers of the Public Service are well known. Why should there not be a schedule to the bill setting out the conditions of appointment, and the salaries of the proposed peace officers? It is intended merely to give the AttorneyGeneral the power to appoint these men and pay them any salary that he thinks fit. I strongly condemn a policy that will lead to the singling out of any individual for special treatment. All men in Australia should be subject to the operation of the same laws. These officers will have almost unlimited powers, and their duties will be of a very responsible character. At present 85 per cent. of the population of Australia is native-born. Why should that 85 per cent. arrogate to itself the right to" deal in a more drastic way with those who are born outside Australia than with those who are native-born. Why should we blazon forth to the people of Great Britain the fact that if they come here they will not be treated in the manner in which Australians are treated? That is clearly set out. 
If I cannot destroy this bill, and the legislation of which it is complementary, I want to make them as innocuous as possible. The amendment that I have foreshadowed is designed to secure a clear statement of the salaries that the Government proposes to pay, and of the number of officers that it proposes to appoint. 
There is another reason why I desire that the bill should be recommitted. When a member of the Public Service wishes to resign he does not experience very great trouble in doing so. If he hands in his resignation, or if he is discharged, his connexion with the Public Service abruptly ceases. This bill, however, proposes that no peace officer shall be at liberty to resign his office, or to withdraw from the duties thereof, unless expressly authorized so to do by the Attorney-General or the person thereto authorized in writing by the Attorney-General, or unless he gives the Attorney-General or the authorized person three months' notice in writing of his intention to so resign, or withdraw; and any peace officer who so resigns or withdraws without such previous permission or notice shall be guilty of an offence for which the penalty is £50 or imprisonment for three months. Such a provision should not be countenanced for a single moment. When the bill is recommitted, I propose to move an amendment under which appointees will have the right to resign on giving 24 hours' notice. A member of this Parliament can resign at a moment's notice. One did so recently.  His  resignation was placed before the  President,  and accepted immediately. The position of a member of this Parliament is very much more important than that of a proposed peace officer. 
I was endeavouring to impress upon the Senate the desirability of recommitting the bill. The' Minister should be invited to advance reasons for the retention of the provisions requiring appointees to give three months' notice. 
Another amendment that I think ought to be made is one which will provide that no regulation under the act shall come into operation  until it has been approved by both Houses of Parliament. The power to make regulations that has been conferred by clause 9 is too comprehensive, and at the same time too vague. The clause will not give members of this Parliament an opportunity to know what the Government is doing. The Executive is appointed to carry out the work of the Parliament, but at the same time Parliament should know what is is doing. 
It is necessary to make these references in order that members of the Government may be convinced of the desirability of recommitting the bill. 
I support  Senator Gardiner's  amendment. My desire is to improve the bill. The Government will be making a very great mistake if it persists in its present attitude. 
.- Our standing order 217 reads - 
Amendments may be moved to such question by leaving out "now" and adding "this day six months," which, if carried, shall finally dispose of the bill; or the previous .question may be moved. 
In accordance with that provision, I move the following amendment: - 
That the word "now" be left out, with a view to adding to the motion " this day six months ". 
I move the amendment in consequence of the great eagerness of the Government to place the measure on the statute-book. It was believed that the provisions of the Immigration Act gave the Government complete power to deport persons on certain grounds. I could understand that there was some measure of reason in the Government pressing forward this bill if there was any sign of a serious or grave industrial dispute in Australia, but that is not so. I would suggest, therefore, that the bill be shelved. I do not like to anticipate trouble, but I feel sure that the passage of a measure of this description will cause an industrial disturbance No honorable senator desires that. I do not wish it to be thought that honorable senators on this side of the chamber have opposed this bill because they countenance anything in the nature of industrial disturbances. 
I deny that. 
We have opposed this bill because we object to any interference with our British liberties. Our existing law courts and machinery for the administration- of justice are quite sufficient to deal with any persons in the community who break the law. We object to the creation of tribunals such as that constituted under the provisions of the Immigration Act. If the Standing Orders had permitted me to do so, I should have moved to insert the words " this day week " instead of " this day six months," for I believe that the dispute to which the Government intends to apply the machinery which will be created in pursuance to the provisions of this bill will in a week's time have been amicably settled. As  Senator Hannan  stated this afternoon, the industrial leaders in Australia and Great Britain are working hard to achieve that desirable end. It is well within the memory of honorable senators that, notwithstanding the aggravation caused by the introduction of the Immigration Bill during the Australian seamen's dispute, a few weeks ago, our industrial leaders were able to effect a peaceful settlement of that trouble. I believe that their efforts will be equally successful in the British seamen's dispute. In view of the professions of  Senator Pearce,  that he desires to maintain industrial peace in Australia, I cannot see how he can do other than accept the amendment. Apart from that, however, we ought to postpone further consideration of this bill for the reason that the Government has given us no information whatever as to the number of men it proposes to appoint, nor the salaries it proposes to pay. These are important aspects of the subject. This morning's press informed lis that the Government was determined to force the passage of this bill, irrespective of whether the British seamen's dispute was settled. Why should it be necessary to have a measure like this on the statute-book when there is no need for it? Wise and sound advice has been sent to the British seamen to obey the orders of their executive. Knowing all this, why should not the Government accept my amendment? The trouble will be disposed of within  a  few days. I want again to refer to the threat which, according to the press, has been made by Ministers, that, whether the dispute is settled immediately or not, they will, go ahead with, the enforcement of the deportation provisions of the Immigration Restriction Act. Evidently, any person not Australian-born who takes part in any industrial trouble is to be sent out of Australia. But, if that is done, Ministers cannot avoid being themselves the creators of industrial strife. We are also told in the press that the board appointed under the provisions of the Immigration Restriction Act held a meeting yesterday, which was Sunday. I believe that before hearing any evidence it has made up its mind to deport certain persons from Australia. But that will not be the end. I ask  Senator Pearce  whether any resident of Australia can be deported on a decision of this board without having the right to appeal to the highest tribunal in the land. 
As the honorable senator is aware, this bill cannot affect any citizen's rights in the courts of law. 
Beyond a passing reference, the honorable senator is not entitled to discuss the other measure. 
Motion (by  Senator Pearce)  proposed - 
That the Senate do now divide. 
The amendment not having been seconded, the main question before the Senate is " That the bill be now read a third time," to which  Senator Pearce  has moved " That the Senate do now divide." 
Under the Standing Orders any senator is entitled to intervene with the motion "That the Senate do now divide." In the exercise of this right, the Minister intervened before the amendment was seconded. 
I wish to take advantage of this opportunity to say that while  Senator Cox,  to whom I had given a pair was absent, I inadvertently voted on one occasion, forgetting that I had arranged for a pair. 
Question resolved in  the  affirmative. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Defence any information to give to the Senate in reference to the case of  Mr. A.  W. Page, of Western Australia, who was retired from his position as paymaster in the Defence Department? 
On the 16th July the honorable senator mentioned the case of  Mr. A.  W. Page, who was retired from the Defence Department in September, 1922, under the provisions of the Defence Retirement Act 1922. I am now in a position to inform the honorable senator that the whole of the papers on this matter have been placed in the hands of the Crown law authorities, who have been instructed that, if  Mr. Page  is held to be entitled to compensation, payment is to be made to him accordingly. 
I have to announce to the Senate the receipt of the following -letter from the  Hon.  J. G. Coates, Prime Minister of New Zealand, on the subject of the resolutions of the Senate and the House of Representatives relating to the death of the late Prime Minister of New Zealand : - 
I beg to acknowledge the receipt ofyour letter, of the 14th July forwarding a bound copy and several loose copies of resolutions agreed to and speeches" delivered in both Houses of Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia relating to the death of the late Prime Minister of New Zealand. 
I desire, on behalf of the Government, Parliament, and people of New Zealand, to express deep appreciation of the tributes paid to  Mr. Massey's  services to the Empire, and sincere thanks for the kind messages of sympathy in the great loss sustained by the Dominion. 
I propose to arrange for this correspondence, together with a copy of the resolutions and speeches, to be laid on the tables of both Houses of the New Zealand Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,upon  notice - 
Will the Government, seeing that it has decided to give relief from the Navigation Act to native Papuans, extend the same consideration to the people of Tasmania? 
Whilst the Navigation Act enables trade between the Territories and the Commonwealth  as  a whole to be exempted from the coasting trade provisions, no such power exists  as  regards the trade between the various States. Section 99 of the Constitution, it may be pointed out, prohibits the Commonwealth by any law or regulation of trade giving preference to any one State  or  any part thereof over another State or any part thereof. There is no such restriction in respect of Territories. 
In moving this motion,  Senator Wilson  endeavoured to paint a very rosy picture of the advantages that are likely to accrue to Australia as the result of its adoption, but I am very much afraid that the benefit to Australia will be very meagre, and that, instead of this agreement being of great advantage to Australia, it will be of much greater advantage to Canada. The preamble to the agreement reads as follows: - 
That whereas in pursuance of the provisions of paragraph (a) of sub-section (3.) of section 9 of the Customs Tariff 1921-1924 the Minister of State for Trade and Customs has referred to the Tariff Board the question whether, having regard to the reciprocal benefits which have been or will be granted to Australia by the Dominion of Canada, it is desirable in the interests of the Commonwealth that the . British preferential tariff in the Customs Tariff 1921-1924 or the intermediate tariff in the Customs Tariff 1921-1924 (hereinafter respectively referred to as " the British preferential tariff " and " the intermediate tariff") should apply to the Dominion of Canada, and, if so, the extent to which it should so apply: 
And whereas the Tariff Board has reported that . it is desirable in the interests of the Commonwealth that the British preferential tariff and the intermediate tariff should apply to the Dominion of Canada to the extent specified in this resolution: 
I wish to direct the attention of honorable senators to the words, " having regard to the reciprocal benefits which have been or will be granted to Australia by the Dominion of Canada." I intend to submit figures showing Canada's trade with Australia, which should be considered when studying the alleged advantages which Australia may derive from the proposed reciprocal arrangement. Canada's preference to Australia on meat is l½d. per pound, and for the year 1922-23 the quantity of Australian beef, lamb, mutton, pork, &amp;c, exported totalled 333,782,000 lbs. valued at £6,312,000, of which the United Kingdom took 283,621,000 lbs. valued" at £5,629,500 and Canada 203,315 lbs. valued at £3,944. During 1923 Canada exported $28,000,000 worth of meat of various kinds, and. her imports amounted to only $9,000,000 worth, practically all of which came from the United States of America. It will be seen that Great Britain takes nearly all our exports of meat and Canada very little. The concession on eggs imported from Australia is1½d. per dozen. In 1922-23 Australia exported 1,236,000 dozen worth £103,000. Canada imported3,613,500 dozen valued at $1,400,000 and exported 8,320,000 dozen valued at $8,256,000. Most of Canada's importations were from the United States of America. I shall now quote the figures in relation to butter, which is one of Australia's important primary products and one on which Canada offers a concession of l½d. per lb. In 1922-23 Australia exported 79,571.000 lbs. of butter valuedat £6,134,000, of which the United Kingdom took 69,735,000 lbs. valued at £5.244.000, whilst Canada did not take a single pound. 
Either from the United States of America or Denmark. Canada imported butter to the extent of 3,767.000 lbs. valued at- $1,350,000 and exported 22,000,000 lbs. valued at $8,243,000. I understood the Minister  (Senator Wilson)  to say that  there was a possibility of considerable trade being done with Canada in currants and raisins, but the figures show that in 1923-24 Australia, exported 26,500,000 lbs. of raisins valued at £803,000, of which Great Britain took 24,500,000 lbs., valued at £746,000 and Canada only about £1.000 worth. In 1923 Canada imported 32,044,000 lbs. of raisins, valued at §3,644,000. The United States of America supplied nearly the whole of those imports. Canada offers us a preference of l$d. a lb to meet this competition from the United States growers. Comparing the distance between Australia, and Canada with that separating Canadian markets from growers in the United States, what chance have we of securing this trade? Raisins and currants are the only lines in which we can hope to do extensive business with Canada. The preference given to Canada in respect of newsprint is very important. At present the duty on imports from Canada is £3 a ton, 'whilst the imports from Great Britain are free. During the war the British Government commandeered thousands of manufacturing establishments, including the British paper mills, which were all turned over to the manufacture of munitions of war. As a result, Canada captured the British trade in newsprint, audi Canadian mills, I should like to impress oh honorable members, are, in the main, owned and controlled by manufacturers in the United States of America. 
I hope to be able to prove what I am saying. During the war, these so-called Canadian firms charged exorbitant prices for newsprint. To quote the Minister for Customs of that time,  Senator Greene,  " they bled Australia white." Every proprietor of a newspaper in Australia was compelled to pay excessive prices for his newsprint. After the war Great Britain endeavoured to recapture its lost trade in newsprint. British firms made an offer not to charge more than £30 a ton, to ship the paper in Commonwealth vessels to Australia, and to render assistance when required to establish the industry here. Under this arrangement, for the" twelve months ending 30th September, 1924, 32,500 tons' of newsprint were shipped by the Commonwealth Line to Australia at a cost of £2 15s. a ton, representing £90,000 in freight. But the Canadian firms were not inactive. They reduced prices in an effort to crush British competition, and in the following year a considerable portion of this freight was captured by the Inchcape shipping combine.  Senator B«id  asked just now if I could prove my statement that Canadian paper manufacturing companies are really United States' concerns. I have here a statement showing that in 1917 the Attorney-General of the United States instituted proceedings, under the Sherman Act, against the NewsprintManufacturers' Association. The judgment declared that the association, which included thirteen Canadian manufacturers, representing. 91 per cent, of Canadian export tonnage, was an unlawful combination in restraint of trade, and the court ordered its "dissolution. In addition, certain presidents of Canadian firms were fined 2,500 dollars. The  Technical Journal,  published in New York, in its issue of the 18th April. 1923. stated - 
The development of the Canadian pulp and paper industry during the last decade is one of the most interesting chapters in the industrial life of the North American Continent.  . . For America it has uncommon interests, 3ince -American capital and enterprise have played a very important part in it.' 
The extent to which the United States of America has been gaining ground in Canada is shown by the following quotation from the  Industrial Australian and Mining Standard  of the 12th July, 1923:- 
The Research Department of the Bankers Trust Company of New York issued in May  last a special report entitled " The flow of capital into Canada," from which the following quotations will be of particular interest to Australia : - " The United States would now appear to have invested in Canada  2i  billion dollars, or almost as much as the British investments. The 2,500,000,000 dollars, or thereabouts, may roughly be allocated about 1,200,000,000 dollars invested in bonds, and the remainder invested directly or indirectly (through holding of shares in stock companies) in farming, mortgages on real estate, industrial enterprises, in banking, in small business undertakings, and in private loans. . . . Late in 1922 there must have been over 700 such establishments with a further number seeking suitable location.  . . One of the incentives for this development is that the American manufacturer can thus supply the Canadian market, and at the same time escape the Canadian tariff. Another is that by manufacturing in Canada they are able to enjoy the preferential treatment accorded to Canadian goods by many countries within the British Empire. 
Apropos of this discussion, I may refer to a statement by the late  Senator E.  D. Millen, who said - 
Canadian manufacturers hare no claim upon our gratitude. There is a very strong reason for assuming that there is a very close intimacy between American and Canadian manufacturers. 
Having considered the matter as closely as time would permit, I think that there is a great deal in what the late honorable senator said. Let me now give this extract from a statement made at one time by the present Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Pratten)  : "My vote will be governed very largely by the knowledge that the request will help Great Britain." I venture to say that  Mr. Pratten  has lived to learn, even as Minister for Trade and Customs, and that if the agreement is ratified, it will not help the British Empire to the extent that is supposed. In fact, instead of benefiting Canada, as part of the Empire, it will simply assist American investors in Canada, and we in Australia will not get the commensurate benefit for which we hope.  Senator Wilson  on one occasion remarked: " I admit Canadian manufacturers are not entitled to expect very much from us at this juncture." 

 - Senator Wilson has failed to satisfy me, at any rate, that this is a satisfactory agreement. I emphasize that I am merely expressing my personal views. The Acting Government Whip,  Senator Duncan,  referring to newsprint, said that Australia had had " a rough spin'' from newsprint manufacturers in Canada. I do not know whether the honorable senator is still of the same opinion, or whether he is now as free to express his views as he was when that statement was made, but I hope to hear what attitude he now takes up. The quantities of newsprint and other printing paper carried by vessels of the Commonwealth Government Line of Steamers is indicated by the subjoined letter, addressed to  Mr. Andrew  Milne, care of Messrs. Lendrums Limited, Collins- street. Melbourne, . and dated the 1st October, 1924:- 
We decided a few days ago that gambling was not permissible under Commonwealth law. Certainly, in my opinion, Parliament should not give its assent to this proposed gamble, for the nation's money is at stake. A justifiable summary of the Minister's speech, in introducing this motion, is, " Australia hopes to get some advantage." May I remind honorable senators that " hope deferred maketh the heart sick." If we accept this proposal, I am afraid that we shall become sick of hoping for an advantageous result. Great Britain takes 90 per cent. of the exports that are mentioned in the schedules. It must be patent, therefore, that even if Canada took the whole of the remaining 10 per cent., which I do not believe to be the case, we could not gain very greatly. Admittedly, Great Britain is the best customer we have for our exportable primary products. In. my opinion, the only result that would follow our acceptance of this proposal would be that American investors in Canada would gain. I understand that the Canadian Parliament has already considered this matter, and that itis in consequence of its decisions that these schedules axe before us. Will the Minister tell us, in his speech in reply, whether any amendment of the schedules would make the whole  proposal invalid ? I do not think the Government has made out a good case, and I ask the Senate to negative the motion. 
As I look at this proposal, it should be examined from two standpoints. First of all, we should ask ourselves what is its sentimental worth; and, secondly, what is likely to be its business value. As to the sentimental aspect, there is, of course, a bond of sympathy between Canada and Australia as sister dominions of the British Empire. That bond, I believe, will be very little affected by the fate of this motion. Another sentimental consideration that should carry a good deal of weight is the effect, if any, that our acceptance or rejection of this proposal would have on world politics. I am one of those, and I am thankful to say that they are many, who believe that the peace, prosperity and justice of the world depend very largely upon the English-speaking races. Anything that 
Gan be, done to assure a perfect cohesion or fusion of the Engish-speaking races ought to be done. Our acceptance of this proposal might have a prejudicial effect upon the relations between Canada and the United States of America. As the solidarity of the United States of America and Canada is very much more important than that of Canada and Australia, from the point of view of world politics, we should be justified, on that ground alone, in rejecting the motion. The proposed agreement certainly has very little to recommend it from the sentimental point of view, in so far as world politics are concerned. As to its business effect,  Senator Needham  has just given us an explicit account of what might be called the balance of trade. The honorable senator's speech bore every appearance of careful preparation, but I do not think that the facts that he gave us were at all secret. It has been evident for many years that the balance of trade, as between Australia and Canada, is overwhelmingly in favour of Canada. No possible effect of this proposed agreement could alter that. The Minister for Markets and Migration  (Senator Wilson)  appears to pin his faith, to a very great extent, to the good effect that might follow from the proposed amended duty on dried fruits. I regard that as a somewhat frail reed upon which to lean. From the point of view of proximity, Southern California could easily supply all Canada's require^ ments in that line. She could certainly do so much better than Australia, if proper transport arrangements were made. We need always to remember that the Government of the United States of America is very willing to help transportarrangements by means of subsidizing freights. It has proved that it is much more willing to do that than Australia is. The operation of that policy in other areas of world commerce has been detrimental to Australia. For these reasons, and for another which I shall touch upon briefly, it is my intention to oppose the ratification of this agreement. The other reason is that Canada is one of our most active opponents in a trade which means, in my opinion, a very great deal indeed to the primary producers and manufacturers of Australia. I am referring to the trade with southeastern Asia, more particularly with China. Aided by the subsidies to which I have already alluded, Canada is fighting us for the markets in south-eastern Asia, with fatal effect upon us. Hampered by a lack of regular and cheap transport, 0111 flour, although it is far better than Canadian, cannot obtain a footing in those markets. If we could secure that trad - and I believe, with judicious treatment, we can - it would prove a. much more important market to us than the Canadian market could ever be. For the reasons I have enunciated, and which, having no desire to prolong the debate, I have touched on lightly, it is my intention to cast my vote against the ratification of this agreement with Canada. - 
 While listening to the remarks of  Senator Wilson,  I was wondering how he would endeavour to impress on the Senate that any advantage would accrue to the Commonwealth from the adoption of this motion. I was particularly interested to ascertain from him to what extent Australia was now supplying commodities to Canada. At that moment he had not the figures at his disposal, hut since then he has very kindly furnished them to me. They are of sufficient importance, I think, to cause honorable senators to reject the motion, or, at any rate, to pause well before accepting it. The return furnished to me shows that,  in the year 1923-4, we imported into Australia articles under statement A to the following value: - 

<graphic href="111332192509020_5_1.jpg"></graphic>

These figures speak much louder and more effectively than any words could do. Another return shows the value of imports into Canada of the items mentioned in statement B for the year 1923-4:- 

<graphic href="111332192509020_5_2.jpg"></graphic>

Australia's share of that trade was insignificant in the extreme. The Minister has failed to put before the Senate sufficient information to induce us to accept his motion. He has not been able to show us how Australia can get any share of the trade that passes into Canada. In my opinion, the word " Canada " in this agreement should be replaced by the words " United States or America." The motion is ostensibly to give preference to Canada, but it will really, if adopted, afford a preference to the United States of America as against Great Britain. One of the principal commodities we import from abroad, is newsprint. I suppose that in common with all members of the Federal Parliament, honorable senators have been supplied with an elaborate statement containing very carefully arranged arguments in favour of the establishment of paper mills in Australia for the manufacture of newsprint. The information it affords to honorable senators is of the utmost value. In it the quantity of newsprint imported during the last few years is shown to be as follows: - 
The real object of this motion is to give the so-called Canadian paper mills an opportunity to recover the trade which these figures show they have lost to Great Britain. 
They are not owned by the Canadian people. The ramifications of capital are world-wide, and information placed at our disposal by those who are well qualified to give it with authority, shows that a very large proportion of American money is invested in the Canadian paper manufacturing business.  Senator Needham,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, showed us this afternoon very clearly from figures he quoted that the Canadian paper mills were owned very largely by persons residing in the United States. A significant statement published in the  Industrial Australian and Mining Standard  on 12th July, 1923, should have been sufficient to cause the Minister to pause before seeking to do an injustice to Great Britain to the advantage of the United States of America. That statement was as follows : - 
Tlie Research Department of the Bankers' Trust, New York, issued in May last a special report, entitled " The Flow of Capital into Canada," from which the following quotations will be of particular interest to Australia : - " The United States would now appear to have invested in Canada 2,500,000,000 dollars, or almost as much as the British investments." 
I think the Minister ought to answer that statement before he insists upon his followers voting for this motion. The statement continues - " The 2,300,000,000 dollars or thereabouts may roughly be allocated : - About 1,200,000,000 dollars' invested in bonds, and the remainder invested directly or indirectly (through holding of shares in stock companies) in farming, mortgages on real estate, in industrial enterprises, in banking, in small business undertakings, and in private loans." 
This statement, whose accuracy I have no reason to challenge, shows that the socalled Canadian paper mills are to a very great extent the property of American investors. Therefore, the only effect of this  motion  will be to withdraw from Great Britain a trade which it has built np after very strenuous exertions following the war, and transfer it ostensibly to Canada, but actually to the United States. I will not stand for that. If preference is to be given, it should be given within the Empire. If I were  satisfied that the Canadian people would reap an advantage from the proposed preference, I would not have so much objection to it, but I am satisfied that they will get nothing, and that the effect of the adoption of the proposal will be to destroy, gradually but surely, Great Britain's" export trade in newsprint to Australia, and transfer it to so-called Canadian mills situated in Canada, but really belonging to the United States of America. If we were considering the establishment of paper-mills in Tasmania, or some, other portion of the Commonwealth, the position would be entirely different. We are not doing anything of the kind. The Government is proposing to give Canada a preference on certain commodities in the foolish hope that we will be able to export to that country some of our surplus products; Nothing of the kind is likely to happen. I am at a loss to understand why the Government should bring down such a proposal as this. It would not do so if it had given the matter careful consideration, unless it is its intention, as I believe it is, to destroy the British trade with Australia in news-print by transferring it ostensibly to Canada, but actually to the United States of America. Without any justification whatever, the price of newsprint during the war was increased enormously, and almost every consignment which reached Australia was sold at a higher rate than the preceding one, until it reached approximately £100 per ton. We were fortunate to receive supplies even at that figure. The remarks on the subject made on one occasion by the late  Senator E.  D. Millen - one of the ablest men that ever occupied a seat in this chamber - should not be forgotten. He said, " The Canadian manufacturers have no claim upon our gratitude, but there is a very strong reason for assuming that there is a close intimacy between American and Canadian manufacturers." The late senator, who was once associated with the news-print trade, would not have made such a statement if he thought the position was not as he stated. The present Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Pratten),  when a member of the Senate, also said, " My vote will be governed very largely by the knowledge that the request will help Great Britain." 
If this motion is agreed to, and the Government, in pursuance of its policy, ostensibly, to give preference to Canada, gives effect to it, American manufacturers will undoubtedly benefit. The proposal is one which I cannot support and I believe that the Government would be well advised to allow the duties to remain as at present. As Parliament is prepared to give bonuses to the Australian industries when those responsible for their control find that they cannot possibly carry on without assistance, we should not take this unnecessary step, and destroy the trade in newsprint which has already been built up with Great Britain. As the United States of America in common with Tasmania imposes a tax upon all those who enter its borders, and the Dominion of Canada can be entered without travellers having to submit to such an injustice we have an additional reason for opposing the concession. The proposal is an obnoxious one, and for the reasons I have stated as well as others which could be given, I trust the Government will withdraw the motion. 
 This proposal in making its appearance for the second time revives memories of the attempt to give effect to at least two desires in the minds of the people. The first is to draw a little closer together the different portions of the British Empire by means of more intimate trade relationships. The second is to see what can be done in the way of allowing other portions of the" British Empire to sell to us those goods which- they can produce to greater advantage than we can, and vice versa. In a secondary sense this subject can be approached from the point of view of the fiscal policy under which we adhere to the delusion of building still higher a protective barrier in the vain hope that by that means alone we can increase our production to our own advantage. I propose, however, ito view it solely from the stand-point of the well-being of this country as a whole. I have to ask myself if this reciprocal arrangement is likely to hamper and restrict an overwhelming bulk of our producers, or lift from their shoulders the burden which they are at present, and have been for a long time, bearing. I intend to address myself to the question from that  stand-point alone. We have two classes of producers in the Commonwealth, each of which is well known to honorable senators and' to any outsider who has studied the question of protection. There are, in the first place, the producers who established themselves on the broad areas of this country, and who have held the fort for many succeeding years against great disadvantages in producing directly from the soil articles required for human consumption. Another section is serving a very useful end, but in doing so is asking the whole of the community to bear an unequal and unwarranted impost for the purpose of supporting it against what it terms unfair outside competition. Tor many years I lent a willing ear to the demands of this section, and I still maintain that they have a good deal to recommend them. Its demands have to be granted up to a reasonable limit, but beyond that we should not go. Australia should expand as an industrial and productive nation in every sense, but it cannot do so by giving special concessions to one class of producer at the  expense of another. We cannot afford to allow secondary producers to come to this Parliament as they do, and a3 they did, to the State Parliaments prior to the inception of federation for successive favours in the direction of an unreasonable degree of protection, as against those engaged in corresponding efforts elsewhere. The history of tariff legislation in the Commonwealth is very simple, and, indeed, a short story. The first effort was made after the inception of federation, in 1901, and was followed by a later effort in 1907-8 when a still' stiffer tariff was passed. The opinion then expressed was that those who by means of the first Federal tariff were to a degree insufficiently protected, should be further protected, and acting under that belief Parliament proceeded to provide a higher and more effective degree of protection. I shared in that effort, and do not withdraw one word I said on that occasion; neither do I feel sorry for anything I did to give the  secondary industries  the necessary help which I thought, and still think, they should enjoy. But what was our experience with those who once said that they were satisfied with the effort of 1907-8, when an attempt was made to give them the protection they desired and which we thought they were entitled to? It was said by those people who once expressed satisfaction with the tariff that it was not producing the effect expected, and little by little the volume of opinion in favour of further increased protection grew in intensity, with the result that during the war period further additions were made. Then followed the last successful attempt in this Parliament to give these industries a still further helping hand along what we were informed was the road to success. Three successive attempts have been made to put the secondary industries upon what is considered to be a satisfactory basis, in order that they might not only hold the field against foreign competition, but also take a hand in supplying the markets overseas. What has been the result? Instead of these industries exporting products they have failed to meet even the local demand. There must be something wrong with our secondary industries. I think we may fairly pride ourselves that, in the matter of tariff protection, we have done the fair thing by them. ^Notwithstanding this ample measure of protection, they have . failed to justify our hopes, ' not only with regard to the home market, but to the overseas market as well. This failure is brought into relief by the effort made by our primary producers, who not only have to bear this extra tariff burden for the assistance of secondary industries, but have also to face overseas competition of the fiercest and most unrelenting kind. What has been done in the case of our chief staple product, wool ? Our growers, as we all know, produce one-fourth of the world's production in finer wools. As a consequence, although our population is small we have a steady inflow of gold from this source ranging from £60,000,000 to £70,000,000 a year. Canada is in no such favorable situation. That country is never likely to produce first class wool in any quantity. She has less than 3,000,000 sheep. South Australia alone has double that number, and, in common with the other States of the Commonwealth, other great natural resources as well. On the other hand, Canada makes up for what she lacks in natural resources by capitalizing the energy of her people. It is quite true that the sister Dominion is fortunate in the possession, of vast prairie lands for the production of wheat. 
Australia, as every one knows, also has almost unlimited areas for wheat production; but, unlike the Canadian prairie lands, our soils will not stand heavy and continuous cultivation. In addition, we have great potential mineral resources. We have already won immense quantities of gold and other minerals from our mines. Will any one say that we may not expect a vast accretion of wealth from this source? But let me return to the consideration of the position occupied by our secondary industries. What are they doing? Are they  performng  their allotted task? In my opinion, they are not. I do not say this in a spirit of fault-finding. I am merely stating facts as I see them. In the field of secondary endeavour, we are not " delivering the goods," to the same extent that we are in our  prmary  industries. The  Commonwealth Year-Book  1924 sets out the position very clearly. Taking the year 1913 as the basic year, I find that the total exports from all sources, except manufacturing, totalled £72,000,000, and that the value of manufactured goods exported was £2,300,000. Since then, as I have shown, substantial advantages in the form of increased tariff protection have been given to our secondary industries, consequently we should be entitled to look for progress. The figures disclose the contrary to be the case. In 1921-2 the value of our primary products exported rose to £86,000,000, whereas the value of our manufactured goods exported was slightly over £2,300,000, representing only a slight increase over the figures for 1913. In 1922-3 the value of primary products exported declined to £70,000,000, and the value of manufactured products dropped to £1,900,000. The decline in exports of primary production was due entirely to a falling off in the value of the output from our mines and quarries from £14,000,000 in 1913 to £8,000,000 in 1922-3; and in forestry products from £1,100,000 to £700,000. Taking 1913 as the basic year, the exports of agricultural produce in 1922-3 represented 107 per cent. ; in the pastoral industry, it was 105 per cent. ; in the dairying industry, 126 per cent. ; in mines and quarries, 56 per cent. ; in fisheries, 114 per cent. ; and in forestry, 65 per cent. " From these figures it will be seen that, had production in our mines, quarries, and in forestry, held their own,, there would have been a substantial increase during the years mentioned, in the field of primary production. Our secondary industries in the same period declined to 83 per cent. And this notwithstanding all the patronage extended to them by this Parliament. In the light of these facts, are we going to give further benefits to our manufacturing industries which, during the last nine years, have not returned to the people that benefit which they had every right to expect for the protection given ? The position in Canada is almost the reverse of that in Australia. In 1922 the raw materials exported from Canada to the United Kingdom and the United States of America totalled §329,000,000, or, roughly, £60,000,000. The value of partly manufactured goods exported in the santa year was $107,000,000; and the value of fully, or chiefly, manufactured goods exported was $303,000,000. In other words, Canada, in 1922, exported about £20,000,000 worth of partly manufactured articles, as well as the £60,000,000 worth of fully,' or chiefly, manufactured goods; or a total of about £80,000,000 worth of secondary products, compared with less than £2.000,000 worth exported from Australia. As far as I have been able to gather, the Canadian tariff is not more protective in its incidence than is the Australian tariff. Therefore, in that respect, Canadian manufacturers are not so favorably situated as are manufacturers in Australia. Take, for example, the position of the manufacturers of farm machinery." which is an important factor in Australian primary production. The agricultural machinery that comes from Canada to Australia has to bear an impost of something like 50 or 60 per cent., although it is made in a British country by workmen who receive the benefits of high wages and an eight-hours' day. The Canadian manufacturers manage to surmount our high tariff barrier, notwithstanding the fact that they have to obtain their raw material from the United States of America, and pay a duty upon it at the American border. It is about time we called a halt. I am not prepared to give Australian manufacturers of agricultural implements, or the manufacturers in any secondary industry, this great  advantage to the positive injury and hardship of the agricultural, pastoral, mining, and dairying section of the community that are supplying the substantial form of national wealth. The producers engaged on the lighter and drier soils of Australia are engaged in a royal battle, but those carrying on our secondary industries are not experiencing similar hardships, for they are sheltered by a high tariff wall. I should like to see the treaty so moulded. that our primary producers would be given a chance to prosper and enjoy some of the good things of life that up to the present time they have been denied. I have already made clear in this chamber the result of the repeated coddling of secondary industries. I well remember how  Mr. 0.  G. Hoskins made repeated attempts before the Tariff Board to obtain the utmost protection he could secure, from the time the iron ore was taken from the mine in South Australia until it was landed in New South Wales, and later on was converted into either mining or agricultural machinery. By the repeated efforts of this gentleman to obtain tariff favours, one would have imagined that he was in financial difficulty, but we now know thathe told an exaggerated tale.  Mr. Hoskins  now has a twelve-storied building in the heart of Sydney, built as a result of the assistance given to an industry which Parliament was led to believe was unprofitable. Honorable senators should realize that Parliament has listened too readily to these manufacturers, when in reality it should have told them to go about their business and put up a fight equal to that being carried on by those engaged in the primary industries. I regard the agreement as only a partial effort to do justice to the men on the land, who are engaged in by far the greatest effort to sustain our country's position. Why are not agricultural implements included? There is one type of manufactured article mentioned in the schedule, but it represents only a fractional part of the producer's requirements. We should tear down -the tariff barrier and give manufacturers in Canada and Australia even competition, to see which can come out on top. We cannot continue to pile up duties on the machinery and implements required by our primary producers without making their position worse than it is, or oven driving them off the land. I do not know how to give effect to my desires in regard to this agreement. I do not propose to discuss the matter of newsprint and other items that are of comparatively small moment. I believe that the advantage given with regard to our dried fruits will be of great benefit to at least one small section of our producers, but it seems to me that the agreement might have been extended to wines. 
The slight advantage given under the agreement is not sufficient. There should be a good market for our dry and sparkling wines in Canada. The manufacturers of iron and steel products are enjoying too high a duty, and they are not "delivering the goods" to the people of this country. Our primary producers are making an almost superhuman effort without receiving the reward to 'which they are entitled. The dairying industry is carried on largely with the aid of the labour of women and children, and almost a sweated product is placed on the market for the benefit of the consumers in the cities. Why, then, should these producers not receive some compensating advantage ? If the Government took 15 per cent, off the present duty on agricultural machinery, it would not place the local manufacturers on an unfair footing. Are they paying higher wages, or . giving better conditions of employment than obtain in Canada? As far as statistics are available to guide me, I say that they are not. The facts are that they have advantages over the Canadian manufacturers. Australian farmers have to bear the handicap of a yield on our light soils of about twelve bushels to the acre, as against sixteen or twenty bushels in Canada, but they also have to submit to the extra impost of a 60 per cent, duty on their implements. I know that I have been like a voice in the wilderness in the past, but I hope that I have induced honorable senators to view this matter from the proper angle. There may be a further opportunity of considering it when the tariff comes before us, but I accept this first instalment of a proposal designed to bring together people with a common language, who have sprung from a common stock, and who are working out their destinies on two different continents. I give the motion my hearty support, realizing that, although it does not go so far as I think it should, it will assist to promote the welfare of the people of Australia, and particularly those engaged in the broad areas of our interior. 
.- The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  did me the honour of quoting from a speech that I delivered in the Senate a considerable time ago on the subject of British preference. It is true that, as far as it is possible to do it with justice to our own manufacturers, I am prepared to give to Britain as large a measure of preference as possible. At that time I fought strongly to give a preference to Great Britain under our tariff schedule. We found, subsequently, that Britain was not prepared to reciprocate. A change of government occurred there, and the Labour party, which assumed office, callously disregarded the wishes and best interests of the Dominions, and threw overboard the preferential tariff proposals which the previous government was prepared to grant. So the position was that Australia was giving everything to Britain and getting nothing from her. In that circumstance, I introduced a motion into the Senate, with the object of rescinding the preference that had been given to Britain. The matter was discussed at length, but before a vote could be taken on it, another election occurred in Great Britain, which resulted in the defeat of the Labour party, and the return to power of a party which was prepared to accord a proper degree of preference to the Dominions. In introducing my motion, I stated that I was favorable to entering into equitable tariff arrangements ' with the sister Dominions, and particularly with Canada, with the object of bringing about an interchange of Dominion products. Later on, the Commonwealth Government negotiated with the Canadian Government, arranged a basis for a reciprocal trade arrangement, and submitted a concrete proposal to Parliament. We were told at that time that unless we ratified the agreement without amendment it would not be effective. On that understanding, we ratified it. Subsequently, however, Canada refused to do so. She made counter proposals, the result of which we see in the proposed agreement now before us. The Minister has told us that, in his opinion, this arrangement is more favorable to Australia than the previous one. I know the Canadians, and I say, deliberately, that although wo are accustomed to regard the business men of the United States of America as the example  par excellence  of men who will drive a hard bargain, the Canadian business men can " put it all over the Yankees in that regard. The Canadian Parliament refused to ratify the original agreement, for the reason that it considered an arrangement more advantageous to Canada could be made. 
At any rate, the agents or Ministers of the Canadian Parliament made an agreement with the agents of the Commonwealth Parliament, and subsequently refused to ratify it. We are told now that this proposed agreement, which the Canadian authorities are prepared to ratify, is more favorable to Australia than the previous one. I should like the Minister to point out in detail the items in the schedule which make it so.  Senator .J.  Grant, in discussing this matter, found himself in an anomalous position. He is one of the leading freetraders of this Parliament. I shall not call him the high priest of freetrade, for that would award him the palm that very rightly belongs to his honoured Leader ' in the Senate  (Senator Gardiner);  but he  i3  a worthy standard-bearer for his Leader. He is, on principle, opposed to the imposition of Customs duties; but this afternoon he objected to a proposed reduction of them. I feel sure that his freetrade supporters in New South Wales will be horrified at his attitude. To be consistent, he ought gladly to accept all such reductions on the ground that they must lead ultimately to the abolition of the duties. He has failed lamentably to stand by his convictions. He told us that we ought not to ratify this proposed agreement for the reason that capital from the United States of America is invested in Canada. 
I point out to the honorable senator that, although the capital comes from the United States of America, the factories are in Canada, the employees are Canadians, and the Canadian Government obtains revenue from both, the investors and the workers. Does he object to the investment of such capital anywhere except in the United States of America? Is he opposed to the establishment of Ford factories in Australia? 
I shall deal with that point presently. The honorable senator must realize that the investment of  foreign capital in Australia means more employment, better wages, and improved conditions for our workers. We have been told, for instance, that the establishment of Ford factories here will mean that we shall soon be able to buy Fords for the price of perambulators.  Senator J.  Grant also said that if we accept this proposed agreement we shall deal a heavy blow at the British paper trade. 
The. British paper industry has been enjoying a substantial preference from Australia for some years, which, according to figures quoted by  Senator J.  Grant and  Senator Needham,  has enabled it to increase its Australian trade enormously. 
The paper manufacturers of Great Britain have gone a long way in that direction. We are not now buying any paper from the United States of America. The preference that has been enjoyed by Great Britain has destroyed the Australian trade which was formerly done by the paper manufacturers of the United States of America. At the time that the preference was granted we were assured that it would enable the British manufacturers to re-establish themselves and to hold their position against competition from the outside world; The wages paid in the Canadian paper industry are higher than those paid in the industry in Great Britain. We know, of course, that the British manufacturers have to meet freight charges incurred in bringing a considerable quantity of their raw material from America, but that cannot be regarded as an entire offset against the preferential treatment that it is accorded by Australia. I hold that we ought not to give to Great Britain a preference which we will not give to a sister dominion of the Empire, whose people are working under conditions that are equal to our own. We all desire to see the various dominions of the Empire grow. If I believed that the ratification of this proposed agreement -would benefit the American manufacturer as against the British manufacturer, I should oppose it. Figures which I have been supplied with do not lead me to believe that the position of the paper industry is as  Senator J.  Grant and  Senator Needham  have described it. I do not in any way challenge the accuracy of their statements as to the amount of American capital invested in Canada, but it does not necessarily follow that all the capital invested in the paper industry in Canada comes from the United States of America. I am assured by authorities, whom I consider to be quite as reputable as those quoted by the honorable senators, that most of the capital invested in the Canadian paper industry is either Canadian or British, and, indeed, that the greater part of it is British. We are asked by Senators Needham and J. Grant not to give this meed of preference to a Canadian industry, which is mainly supported by British capital, because by doing so we should be taking from British capital invested elsewhere a preference now enjoyed by it. We are not asked to give a preference to Canada over what has been given to Great Britain. We are merely asked to give to Canada that which has been given to Britain. The next point is that this agreement cannot be harmful to Australian industry. The whole matter has been investigated by the Tariff Board, which I do not think even  Senator J.  Grant would say has freetrade instincts or is imbued with freetrade principles; and as that board has recommended the ratification of the agreement, I think it can be safely said that its acceptance will not prove harmful to Australian industry. One of the great arguments advanced by the Minister  (Senator Wilson)  was that, while no Australian industry would be hurt, the agreement would prove to be of tremendous assistance to the dried-fruit industry, which is a very important branch of Australian industry. 
After all his arguments against the agreement,  Senator J.  Grant now admits that, so long as newsprint is excluded, it is not so bad. 
That is the inference to be drawn from the honorable senator's interjection. Unlike  Senator J.  Grant, who is interested in the British newsprint trade, I am interested in the well-being of the growers of fruit in Australia who will secure some benefit from this agreement. They should receive our first consideration. We have spent millions of pounds in an endeavour to establish the dried fruits industry in Australia and thousands of our returned soldiers are engaged in it. On out irrigation areas are some of the finest settlers in Australia, but they are faced with the problem of finding adequate markets for their products. ' By the adoption of this agreement we can offer to them some hope of securing a footing in a most important market that will give them a fair price for their products. Honorable senators who are opposing the motion assure us that the agreement will prove of no advantage to the dried fruits industry. I believe it will be of advantage, but if it will not, then on giving the requisite six months notice we can have it amended. If we find that the agreement is working entirely in one direction it will be easy enough to have it altered later on, but on the figures supplied by the Minister as the result of the investigation made by the Tariff Board, I believe, that it will prove decidedly advantageous to the dried fruits industry and those engaged in it. I am prepared to give those people every possible assistance, because I know what a rough spin they have had, and I regret very much that  Senator J.  Grant and others who have spoken against the motion are not willing to give these people the measure of assistance and sympathy they deserve. I have some doubt about how the agreement will work out - it will be interesting to watch developments - but the advantages it offers more than outweigh the disadvantages. 
 The motion submitted by  Senator Wilson  has given honorable senators a second opportunity to express their opinions upon the reciprocal agreement with Canada. It has also opened the door to a discussion of the merits of the preference given to the United Kingdom. This discussion must be of considerable benefit to the people whom the agreement is intended to help, inasmuch as it will give them some idea of what the Government is doing for them. Some doubt has been expressed to-day as to whether the agreement will be ratified. There are very good reasons why we should ratify it. There may be some, items in the schedule which should have been omitted, and  Senator Lynch  has referred to some that might have been included. Many of the items included are not manufactured to any extent in Australia. Some of the types of machinery referred to are not extensively used here, at any rate not as extensively as the agricultural implements to which  Senator Lynch  referred. Australian manufacturers who understand Australian requirements are turning out agricultural implements that suit those requirements better than any foreign manufacturer could turn them out. Therefore, I am notvery much concerned about the omission , of agricultural implements from the schedule. I am more concerned about the inclusion of dried and preserved fruits. I believe that the class of men referred to by  Senator Duncan,  the returned soldiers engaged in the production of dried fruits, will derive considerable benefit from this agreement. Although the Government has done a great deal to afford them every assistance - this agreement is further evidence of its desire to promote their interests - many of them now find it difficult to remain on their blocks. I know scores of them who have had to leave their blocks in South 'Australia because they were getting an inadequate return for their produce. This agreement will provide them with another market. We cannot open too many avenues for the disposal of our dried fruits, and if we are to gain a new market for this produce it will benefit a type of men who are more deserving of assistance than is any other class in the community. They are the men who went to the war and on their return settled on the land, very often paying such high prices for it that they have been carrying on under a great handicap. I agree with honorable senators who say that we have no idea what benefit this agreement will bring to Australia. It is not as if we were dealing with a matter affecting only people within our own borders. As itrelates to exports to another country, it will be a considerable time before the figures are available to show what actual benefit has been derived. If we were to follow the advice of some honorable senators we would reject the agreement without giving it a trial. It has already been pointed out that if we find it is not working as well as we would like, we can give notice of our intention to terminate it. In the meantime, it is of the greatest importance to Australia that we should endeavour to expand our trade with other countries, and particularly with other parts of the "British Empire. This Parliament has no desire to destroy Australia's trade within the British Empire or with any other country with which it is doing business, and I marvel at the statement made by some honorable senators that this agreement is intended to destroy the newsprint trade with Great Britain. I do not think that it is likely to be affected to any extent either by the adoption or by the rejection of this agreement. In any case, I say emphatically that it is a serious reflection on the Tariff Board, which has been authorized by the Government to make inquiries and inform Parliament on matters of this kind, to say that the intention of the agreement is to destroy British trade with Australia. It is likewise a serious reflection upon the Minister.  Senator J.  Grant referred to the large amount of American capital invested in Canadian industries, and said that by ratifying this agreement we would be assisting to support American commercial enterprise. I do not. know whether that statement is correct or not, but doubtless American money is invested in Canada, just as it is in other countries, where satisfactory returns can be obtained. American money is invested- in the Commonwealth, and it would be just as reasonable for Canada to decline to offer' preferential rates on the products of Australian in dustries in - which British or foreign capital was invested. 
Yes. We cannot differentiate merely because American money may be invested in Canadian industries, neither should we expect to have an agreement wholly in favour of the Commonwealth. On perusing the latestfigures available, I find that the preference given by Great Britain on dried fruits was valued at £18,644, and on wines £53,568, or a total of £'72,212, which was of great benefit, particularly to ex-soldiers settled on the land. If, under this agreement with Canada, Australian producers can obtain preferences equalling the amount I have mentioned, a very deserving section will benefit. There are many other items which one could quote to show the extent to which advantage has been taken of th'e preferential tariff, and I have no doubt that under this proposal our trade with Canada will increase. I intend to support the motion, because I believe it will assist, not only that section for which I particularly plead - the returned soldiers growing fruit and producing wine - but also a large number of other primary producers, who, as  Senator Lynch  said, are not so aggressive as are other producers, and for that reason are not receiving that consideration from the Parliament to which they are entitled. 
 As I mentioned in submitting the motion, apart from such items as beeswax and eucalyptus oil, Australia has not increased her concessions to Canada, whilst Canada has dealt favorably with the Commonwealth in the matter of fruit pulp and sugar. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham),  in endeavouring to show why the agreement would not be of any benefit to Australia, really proved conclusively that it would be of advantage. 
Hitherto Australia, in her trade relations with Canada, has been at a greater disadvantage than Prance, Belgium, Italy, and Holland. Although the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition believes that under this agreement the Australian meat producers will not derive any benefit, he should remember that at present in competing for the Canadian market they are in the same position as those of the United States of America, whereas under this proposal they will have an advantage of 1½d. per lb.  Senator Sir Thomas  Glasgow and other honorable senators acquainted with the meat export trade will admit that such a concession will place the industry in a much better position. During the last year Canada purchased 406,285 dozen eggs from various countries, and as a concession of 1½d. per dozen is provided for in the agreement, Austrafia, which up to the present has not exported any to Canada, should be able to obtain a fair share of the trade. It should be possible to produce eggs more profitably in Australia than in Canada. In that country poultry has to be housed and hand-fed for a considerable portion of the year, as well as kept warm for six or seven months by artificial means, whereas egg production in Australia can be carried out under much more favorable conditions. The concession of ld. per lb. on cheese is also of benefit, and is almost equivalent to the freight on that commodity between Australia and Canada and the cost of marketing. Then again the arrangement in regard to butter should be of advantage to  us. Under an agreement between New Zealand and Canada, New Zealand has been exporting large quantities of butter to Canada, whilst Australia has not exported any. If we are to secure a portion of that trade we must be placed on a similar basis. Even if the agreement is adopted by Parliament, as we expect it to be, the business done with Canada will still depend solely upon the efforts of the trading community. We give them the opportunity; it is for them to cater for the trade. I believe that, in respect of some of the items in the agreement, we shall not have much trade with that country, but I am advised that the preference given to Australia with regard to currants should prove of substantial value, and that is a market which we are endeavouring to develop.  Senator Needham  stressed the fact that Britain is our best customer. No one will dispute that statement for a moment, but that question does not arise in connexion with this agreement. The honor- able senator also stated that a large amount of United States money was invested in Canadian paper mills, and that preference in the duty on newsprint meant preference to the United States. Whilst I was in .Canada I met a great number of people and received three deputations from men interested in the paper industry. I am satisfied that the labour employed in Canadian paper mills is Empire labour, and that the industry itself is Empire managed and controlled. It is not reasonable to suggest that, because United States money is invested in the Canadian paper industry, it must not be given any concession in this tariff agreement. My honorable friends opposite would take as much money as they could get from America if it were offered at j per cent, cheaper than the rate at which it could be obtained from Great Britain. Queensland, as we know, got in very early with a loan from the United States of America. 
I believe there was a difference of opinion as to whether the money from the United States of America was cheaper than the then ruling British rate.  Senator J.  Grant spoke of the effect of this proposed agreement on the revenue. I can assure him that practically the whole of our paper comes from Great Britain at present, so the revenue will not be affected as he suggested. 
I understood the honorable senator to say that the revenue would be affected by this agreement, but I have shown that it will not be. Practically all the wood pulp imported by Great Britain for the manufacture of paper comes from Finland, Sweden, Norway, and Germany, the total for last year being 1,226,000 tons. 
 6 per cent. only. 
I have not the details. This agreement gives Canada the British preferential rate.  If, in the future, we set about the establishment of  the paper manufacturing industry in Australia, and decided that the general tariff must be increased, any increased tariff on British imports would apply also to the Canadian imports.  Senator Kingsmill  said he approached the consideration of this agreement from the standpoints of sentiment and business. It. is well to have a mixture of the two. 
In this case, I think, we might . very well allow sentiment to influence, to some extent, our attitude towards Canada. The honorable senator mentioned that by freight concessions the United States of America was developing trade in flour withsouth-eastern Asia. I admit that we are not doing as much trade with south-eastern Asia as we should be, but that matter is quite outside the agreement. 
I regret that the honorable senator was not present when I explained that our chief difficulty with Canada was that practically every other country except Australia has a trade agreement. New Zealand has a reciprocal agreement with it in regard to butter, but hitherto we have not had one. These agreements which other countries have made with Canada have virtually forced our hands. This proposal really originated at the Economic. Conference. Honorable senators will recall that the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  had arranged to return to Australia through Canada, but unfortunately he was not able to do so, and I went there instead. The feeling at the Economic Conference was that all the dominions of the British Empire should make trade  agreements for their mutual advantage. Believing that, in this matter, sentiment should have some play, the policy of the Government is to trade within the Empire, if possible, and this agreement should help us to reach out for trade with our sister dominion.  Senator Lynch  spoke of the effect of tariff protection upon -primary industries in Australia. Agricultural machinery, I remind him, is not included in the list. 
It comes under the general tariff. If  Senator Lynch  will scrutinize the agreement be will find that the list includes a very large number of our primary products, such as meat, cheese, butter, eggs, dried fruits, raisins, currants, canned fruits, fruit pulp, wines, beeswax, vegetables in tins, honey, and many other items. Whilst we may not have got all we wanted in this agreement from Canada, the sister dominion, on the other hand, has not got all that she wanted. The agreement may be regarded as a starting point, or as a foundation upon which we may build future arrangements. Only 9 per cent. of goods covered by the agreement are made in Australia. These include corsets, rubber shoes, and parts for motor cars, so the agreement will not affect the manufacturing industries of this country to any extent. I am sure that all honorable senators wish to see our trade with the sister dominion develop along satisfactory lines, and will look to the future with interest. If our trade with Canada expands as the result of this agreement, it may be necessary at a future date to reconsider and enlarge it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I understand that the intention of this bill is to establish a rural credits department of the Commonwealth Bank. The object is certainly a good and worthy one. Many years ago the Labour party contended that such a department should be brought into existence. When the party established the bank it wished it to be conducted in the interests . of the people of Australia, and particularly the primary producers, but as time went on it was found that the bank was not functioning in the way that its creators had contemplated. This fact was particularly noticeable after the death of the first governor,  Sir Denison  Miller. To whatever extent the scope of the functions of the bank may have fallen short of the Labour party's ideal during the regime of  Sir Denison  Miller, that fault was intensified by the amendment of the Commonwealth Bank Act, so as to provide for the appointment of the board of management. I do not say that while  Sir Denison  Miller was at the head of the bank it did not, with its limited functions, do splendid work on behalf of the people. The hope of those who founded it were that it would be a people's bank, but, unfortunately, as a result of later legislation, it has been converted into a banker's bank. The proposal to establish a rural credits branch is not new. I may mention that in July, 1924, when the bill for the amendment of the act, to provide for the appointment of the present board, was under consideration, the honorable member for Bourke  (Mr. Anstey)  moved in another place: - 
That the bill be referred to a select committee to consider the advisability of extending the functions of the Commonwealth Bank to provide rural credits for the following purposes :  - 
To advance upon broad acres; 
To assist co-operative finance in primary and secondary production; 
To assist in land settlement and development; and 
To establish a grain and fodder reserve against periods of drought. 
The lot of the primary producer in his endeavour to secure financial assistance to tide him over his difficulties is not an enviable one. I think that  Senator Lynch  will agree with me that from time to time the man on the land is faced with very serious difficulty in this respect. He has been in the past, and possibly is today, a victim of arrangements with either private individuals or private banks. . I find that the very men whom this bill proposes to assist will not be free from what I may call the curse of these individual financiers and private financial institutions. Now, imperfect as the existing act may be, I venture to say that power is provided already to give financial help to primary producers, although that power has not been ex ercised. Section 7 of the act of 1911 states : - 
The Bank shall, in addition to any other powers conferred by this act, have power- 
to make advances by way of loan, overdraft, or otherwise; 
to issue bills and drafts and grant letters of credit; 
to do anything incidental to any of its powers. 
Section 53 of Part VI. of the act of 1911 provides - 
The bank may from time to time issue debentures to such amount as it thinks necessary, but so that the total amount thereof current at any one time shall not exceed one million pounds. 
It is clear from the above sections that the act as it stands gives power to render assistance to people on the land. The operations of the bank, especially since the death of its first governor, have been restricted. Whilst the private banks have progressed, the Commonwealth Bank has remained almost stationary. It has not catered for the requirements of the people as it should have done. That statement cannot be successfully challenged. I do not wish it to be thought that I am decrying the work that has been accomplished by the bank in the last thirteen years, for I realize that it has rendered great service to the nation. If it had not been in existence when the tocsin of war was sounded in 1914, there would have been a greater financial crisis in Australia than was experienced in 1893. From the moment when that catastrophe overtook the Empire, the bank proved the Commonwealth's sheet anchor. The. Labour party has never received the credit to which it is entitled for the establishment of the Commonwealth Bank. During the years of peace the bank has not made the progress that might reasonably have been expected, considering the large field upon which it had to work, and I am wondering if any influence has been brought to bear upon it by the associated banks of Australia to prevent its progress. I suggest that one of the reasons for the recent legislation converting the people's bank into a bankers' bank is the influence exercised by the associated banks. I notice that under this bill a loan given to a person engaged on the land will be renewable every twelve months. If, at  the end of a year, loans must be renewed, it may be very expensive to the applicants. 
There may he seasons when there is no harvest and no produce. This bill does not provide for that contingency. The general trading department of the Commonwealth Bank is empowered to issue debentures to the value of £1,000,000; but the Government proposes to empower theRural Credits Department to issue at least £3,000,000 worth, and possibly as much as £12,000,000 worth. Proposed new subsection 60abi provides that - 
Advances may be made by the Rural Credits Department, upon the security of primary produce placed under the legal control of the Bank, to - 
The provision to lend to " the Bankor other hanks " is the main weakness in the bill. - 
It is disastrous. It will perpetuate the very conditions that the Commonwealth Bank was created to destroy. It will strengthen the position of the middleman. Our rural settlers ought to be encouraged to deal direct with the Commonwealth Bank. They would then be safe from the ravages of private financial institutions. If theRural Credits Department is empowered to make advances to the settlers direct, it will be a blessing to them; otherwise it will he a curse. 
Then the Minister has been more fortunate than the general public, and particularly the man on the land. 
We know perfectly well that the private banks are always after their pound of flesh, and so are the other private financial institutions. The middleman also is always on the job. In times of scarcity he uses his power to demand his own. price for any produce that he may control. He is always endeavouring to rig the market and fix his own price at the expense of both the producer and the consumer. The Labour party has consistently endeavoured to help the man on the land.' I say, without fear of contradiction, that even a glance at the legislation that has been passed by the various Commonwealth Labour Governments and the Labour Governments that have held office in the various States willshow that it is distinctly favorable to primary producers. For that reason we welcome this bill, and will give it our support, but we shall also attempt to remedy its deficiencies, the main one of which I am now discussing. Surely the Commonwealth Bank is big enough and strong enough to handle aRural Credits Department. This proposal is not new to either the Labour party or honorable senators supporting the Government, hut I venture to say that nowhere else in the world has it been proposed that such an institution should be established to strengthen the position of the middleman. If the bill is agreed to in its present form, it will be conclusive proof, if such be needed, that the Government intends the Commonwealth Bank to be a bankers' bank instead of a people's bank. That is actually what it now is. The following quotation is taken from an official statement issued on behalf of the Country party on the 13th October, 1924:- 
The Bruce-Page Government took the bold step of converting the Commonwealth Bank into a bank for the bankers. 
Although  Dr. Earle  Page is the Leader of the Country party, he boasts of this. The proposal that money should be lent only to "the bank and other banks" indicates that the Government intends to persist in its policy of making the Commonwealth Bank a banker's bank. This will mean that the rural credits department will be of no assistance to the producers. It is unfortunate that the Commonwealth Bank has not developed as the Labour party, which created it, intended that it should. The original Commonwealth Bank Act was passed in 1911 and the bank has been established for thirteen years, but even now there are only about 80 branches throughout Australia. There are of course a number of sub-branches. It is exceedingly difficult, to induce the Commonwealth Bank Board to establish new branches. I endeavoured not long ago to get a branch established at Bassandean, about eleven miles from Perth, where there is a big working class population. Although the private banks have branches there, the Commonwealth Bank Board will not open one. . Last year when the Commonwealth Bank Bill was before Parliament, the honorable member for Bourke  (Mr. Anstey)-  endeavoured, in another place, to insert a provision for the establishment of a rural credits department. No discussion was allowed on . his proposal. The "gag" was applied, and when the House divided on  Mr. Anstey's  motion only members of . the Labour party voted for it. The Government, however, is now moving in that direction. I ask leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What was the purchase price of the Commonwealth Woollen Mills? 
To whom were the mills sold? 
Has the full amount of purchase price yet been paid? 
If not, how much has been paid? 
What is the debit balance? 
The Treasurer supplies the following answers to the honorable senator's questions: - 
£238,52016s. 7d. 
Federal Woollen Mills Proprietary Limited. 
No. 
Principal, £126,920 15s. 7d. ; interest, £14,194 2s. 6d. 
£111,600. 
asked the Minister representing the Ministerfor Defence,  upon notice  - 
Has his attention been called to a paragraph appearing in the  Age  of 31st August, 1925, to the effect that H.M.A.S.  Brisbane  returned from her cruise on Sunday; that the crew participated in the settlement of the waterside strike at Hong Kong, where they were assigned work on tugs, and that other craft were thrown idle; that officers and men greatly enjoyed their stay of a week at Yokohama; and that the  Brisbane  will leave in November to join the Mediterranean squadron, and H.M.S.  Delhi  will replace her temporarily on the Australian coast? 
Is it a fact that the crew of the H.M.A.S. Brisbanetook part in the waterside strike then existing at Hong Kong? 
Are the crews of Australian naval vessels to he used as strike-breakers, either within or beyond Australian waters? 
-The Minister  for  Defence supplies the following answers to  the  honorable senator's questions : - 
Yes. 2 and 3. No. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
How many excess taxation officers were there outstanding at 31st July, 1925, pending suitable positions being found them in other branches of the Service? 
When is it anticipated that the classification of the Clerical Division of the Commonwealth Public Service in New South Wales will be finalized? 
What is the number of temporary clerks at present employed in the Commonwealth Public Service in each State of the Commonwealth (the number for each State to be shown separately). 
When is it expected that the positions at present held by them will be filled by permanent officers duly qualified, and who have a superior claim to such positions? 
The information is being obtained, and the honorable senator will be advised at the earliest possible date. 
asked the Minister for Markets and Migration, upon  notice - 
Was George W. Rymer employed two or three years ago as Welfare Officer on an immigrant ship? 
Was his wife employed later in a similar capacity ? 
If so, what was the name of the ship or ships, and upon whatterms were they so employed ? 
SenatorWILSON.- The answers to the honorable senator's questions are as follow : - 
Yes. 
No. 

 Mr. G. W. Rymer returned to Australia from Great Britainas Welfare Officer in charge of assisted migrants on the  Sophocles,  which sailed from London, 12th September, 1923.In accordance with the usual practice, he was provided with a passage from London to Brisbane, but was granted no other re- muneration for his services. 
Yesterday afternoon, when I obtained leave to continue my remarks on the second reading of this bill, I was referring to the influence of the associated banks on the operations of the Commonwealth Bank, and had directed attention to the fact that, although the bank had been established as far back as 1911, there were less than 80 branches throughout the Commonwealth. Honorable senators expressed surprise. Perhaps they had in mind the savings bank agencies at the various post offices, but I was referring to branches of the general banking business of the Commonwealth Bank. I mentioned a town in Western Australia named Bassandean, about 11 miles from Perth, where there is a fairly large population, 90 per cent. of which is engaged in various industries. Some of the residents are employed in connexion with the State railways, and Borne are engaged on the private railways. An application was made for the establishment there of a branch of the Commonwealth Bank, but the request was refused. When the associated banks increased their rates upon primary and other products, the Commonwealth Bank, as at present constituted, immediately took . a similar stand. Instead of countering the action of the associated banks, it evidently agreed with it, and increased its own rates accordingly. During the year 1924-25 the primary producers of Australia paid in bank rates and charges millions of pounds more than they had paid in previous years. That is an indisputable fact. There was no attempt by the Commonwealth Bank to save the producers from the extra charges imposed upon them. On the contrary, it acquiesced in the action of the private banks, whose excuse for taking this step was that on account of their immense funds overseas, and a consequent shortage of money in Australia, they were unable to finance industry. They asked for some assistance in building up their reserves in Australia. They wanted a reserve in the shape of Australian notes, and that assistance was given. They undertook that if they were assisted in that way they would ease the market. The request was made in September, 1924, and was acceded to. The Commonwealth Treasureradvanced notes to the banks to the extent of £5,000,000, but what became of the promise to ease  the market? The day after that concession was made by the Treasurer, the private banks increased their charges upon exportable products by 10s. per cent., which meant a profit of £750,000 at one stroke. Strange to say, early in 1924 the present Commonwealth Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page)  refused to accede to the demand of the associated banks, and said that to build up an immense credit would lead to enormously increased prices that would be detrimental, not only to the working class community, but also to the primary producers. But despite that statement, eight months later he agreed to. assist the associated banks to the extent of £5,000,000 Australian notes. Having thus in a sense helped his poor relation who promised that- he would go no more to his rich uncle for assistance, and the poor relation having said that he would not increase the interest rate, the reward he received was that on the very next day 10s. per cent, was added to the charge on exportable products. Was that assisting the primary producers of Australia ? Did it help any section in this country? Waa it in conformity with the declaration of the Treasurer eight months previously that to do such a thing would bring about an increase in prices? I point out that if the bill is passed in its present form the practice will be perpetuated. I have before me a statement which proves that, not only are the associated banks acting to the detriment of the primary producers, but the Commonwealth Bank is assisting them in that action, which is also detrimental to manufacturers throughout Australia. The statement is in accord with that of the Treasurer, to which I have just referred. Its author is  Mr. W.  B. Bagnall, Director of the Australian-made Preference League, and it appeared in the Sydney  Labour Daily  of the 28th November, 1924. It is as follows: - 
"CRIME AGAINST NATION." 
Action op Banks.  Attitude to Local Industry.  excuse of exchange. 
A manufacturer of boots and shoes applied to his bank recently for an advance of £2.000 against securities of a market value of £10,000. He was flatly refused by his hanker. 
An importer of boots and shoes applied on the same date to his banker for a letter of credit to be established for bini in London against an importation of £10.000. The letter of credit was immediately arranged and cabled forward. "These facts," states  Mr. W.  R. Bagnall, director of the Australian-made Preference League, " arc of actual daily occurrence, and the menace to local enterprise and initiative is becoming more and more serious. "When modern banking institutions, as we know them, first took shape," he added, " they began us the servants of the public - as a means for facilitating exchange and assisting enterprise. To-day they are the masters of the public and they dictate terms to merchants with no one to please but themselves as to whether they propose to assist manufacturers or to assist importers. The situation is so serious and so much fraught with danger to the manufacturers of Australia, that it is high time that the question be viewed from all aspects and the danger fully visualized. 
A Menace." 
Wbereas in the first-mentioned case £10,000 was to bc spent and was to stay in this country, and employment given to men and women here in Australia, the banks refused to give the necessary assistance in spite of sound and visible securities. In the second case £10,000 is to be spent  abroad  and employment given to men and women abroad, anc! tlie banks not only do all in their power to assist the transaction', but actually give a premium on this transaction amounting to about £400. " On the face of it these facts point to a state of things which is most menacing to Australian manufacturers, and one which requires our careful investigation immediately. " The answer of the banks to this problem is the old worn-out excuse, 'It is due to exchange.' " 
The excuse then offered by the banks has disappeared now that the exchange position has righted itself, but in any case it was not a legitimate excuse to put forward. " The banks tell us that they have huge funds in London and none' here in Australia. We are also told that owing to the rich wheat harvest and the splendid wool clip this season will mean an additional £50,000,000. Instead of this being an occasion for rejoicing, the banks tell us that it will make the position worse and money will be tighter. " Not Satisfied." "Hence, in spite of a wonderful season, manufacturers are likely to be still more handicapped in their work by the banks. "It seems appalling to think that such a state of tilings should be possible. If the present state of things were a true index of trade conditions, then the action of the banks could be justified, but as they have absolutely nothing _ to do with either the conditions of things in primary or secondary industries - both of which in Australia are in a flourishing and healthy condition - then the anomalous and absurd attitude adopted by the banks is not only indefensible, but amounts almost to ft crime against the nation." 
I am not holding a brief for any section of the community, ' manufacturing or otherwise, so far as the financial working  of the nation is concerned, but I claim that we should not have had the complaints we are having to-day if the Commonwealth Bank had functioned, as it was intended to do.We should not have had this menace to which  Mr. Bagnall  has referred, and which is just as applicable to the primary producers as it is to the manufacturers, and, in turn, through them to the people. The bill can be improved, and in committee an attempt will be made to improve it. The primary producers have suffered. I presume that this bill is intended to benefit the primary producers more than any other section of the community, and I cannot see how the Treasurer, as leader of the Country party, can reconcile his statement made early in 1924 with his action of September last, in advancing to the associated banks £5,000,000 from the Australian Notes Fund. The principle of the bill is sound. Honorable senators of the Opposition will support the second reading, but in committee they will endeavour to have certain amendments made. 
 I am pleased to hear that  Senator Needham  approves generally of the bill, and that he hopes to effect some improvements in committee. I also approve of the general terms of the measure, but upon some points I wish to utter a little friendly criticism. I had the idea, like honorable senators opposite, that the bill was to be individual in its scope; that is to say, that under it individuals would be able to go direct to the Commonwealth Bank and obtain advances against theirproduce, but now that I have seen the measure, I find  that  advances are to be made in a collective sense only, that is to say, to the institutions specified in section 60abi. This provision is as follows : -  " 60aci. Advances  may  be made by the Rural Credits Department, upon the security  of  primary produce placed under thelegal control of the bank,  to - 
the bank or other banks; 
co-operative associations formed under the law of the Commonwealth; a State, or a Territory under the authority of the Commonwealth; and 
such corporations or unincorporate bodies, formed under the law of the Commonwealth, a State, or a Territory under the authority of the Commonwealth, as are specified by Proclamation. 
This collective system should provide a greater measure of assistance to Australia in times of financial stress caused by inability to finance wheat or wool operations than would be afforded by the rural credits department itself making individual advances. In any case, the individual would still have the right to go to the Commonwealth Bank in its capacity as an ordinary banker, and obtain an advance, just as he might  go  to other banks. Indeed, he should have a much better chance of succeeding in his application, because of the certainty of the refund coming later on by reason of the collective operations provided for in the bill. Thus the measure should have a tendency to improve the. ordinary business of the Commonwealth Bank, by increasing the number of its current accounts. It should also assist the financial position, in a general way, by distributing the load of advances to be made. It seems to me it will be very difficult to synchronize the terminable periods of the debentures with the dates upon which the net proceeds of produce will be available. It may not, however, be a very hard and fast arrangement. I take it that the debentures will be a little elastic, and that the term will be sufficient to cover the period when the proceeds of the produce will be due. Another friendly criticism is that no part of the capital should be obtained from the Note Issue Department, which, I think, should conduct its operations apart from the Rural Credits Department. The capital required should be obtained by ordinary means, or by the methods mentioned in another part of the bill. It is not altogether clear whether the allotment from the Note Issue Department is to be by way of grant or loan, but I presume it will be the latter. That point was not made clear in the Treasurer's budget speech. No part of the capital should, in my opinion, be obtained from the Note Issue Department, and it would be an improvement to amend the bill in that direction. This measure should improve the ordinary business of the Commonwealth Bank, and enable it, working with the associated banks, to meet any difficulties of finance arising at seasonal periods. I am not at all enamoured of Labour's idea of banking, concerning which we have heard a good deal in this chamber. I do not know what honorable senators opposite expect the Commonwealth Bank board to do. It seems that they believe that any individual should be able to approach the bank and obtain an advance with or without security. It is only reasonable that the Commonwealth Bank should conduct its business on established banking principles, scan with care every application foa* an advance, and not advance money without good security. Some honorable senators have complained that the business of the bank has declined, but with that I do not agree, although its profits are not commensurate with its operations. The Commonwealth Bank has not the profitable business that some, in fact most, of the private banks have. I refer to the very large business of advancing on overseas shipments, which carries very profitable exchange returns. It is quite open, however, for it to embark upon that class of business, and it should strike out and get as much of it as it can. It is also said that its branches are few in number in comparison with those of private banking institutions, but that is due to prudent banking methods. The Commonwealth Bank Board is not likely to establish branches where there is not a reasonable prospect of profitable business being undertaken, and it is quite right to proceed slowly and surely in that respect. It is only reasonable to suppose that when the time is opportune new branches will be opened. The bank has also been criticized for its action in other directions, such as was mentioned in another place the other day, when a question was asked concerning an advance of £2,000,000 to a large Australian insurance corporation when a war loan was being floated. Such criticism is not helpful. In that particular case the Commonwealth Bank, in common with other banking institutions, agreed to advance money to its clients for investment in the loan at J per cent, under the rate of interest which the loan carried. I, in common with thousands of others, borrowed from my own bank to the extent of my financial ability at the time, and for patriotic purposes subscribed to the loan. This great insurance corporation applied for a £2,000,000 loan, which was granted by the Commonwealth Bank under the same terms and conditions as loans were granted to some of its smaller clients. When this transaction was challenged, the honorable member who asked the question was informed that the insur ance company had a credit in the bank of £50,000, that the whole of the £2,000,000 had been paid off, and the account closed. It seems to me - I hope that I am wrong - that the terse reply suggests that owing to this injudicious inquiry the account has been closed. If this is the way in which honorable senators opposite think they are going to assist the business of the Commonwealth Bank, God help the bank ! I whole-heartedly support the bill. The points I have raised may be fully explained by the Minister in reply, but, if not, they can be further considered in committee. 
I desire to congratulate the Government upon again taking a portion of the Labour party's platform and proposing by this bill to establish a rural credits branch of the Commonwealth Bank. The provision of rural credits has been in the policy of the Labour party for many years past. When the Storey Government, assumed office in New South Wales in 1920, one of the first measures it brought before the State Parliament provided for the establishment of a rural bank to assist the primary producers in New South Wales, to get away from the financial octopus which then had the primary products of that State in its grip. When I first heard of this proposal, I was under the impression that the Government intended to initiate a scheme somewhat similar to that in operation in New South Wales, but on closely examining the bill I find the proposal entirely different. As  Senator Thompson  pointed out, it is not proposed to permit individuals to approach the Rural Credits Department j all applications for financial assistance must be made collectively. The measure would be of much greater benefit to the primary producers of Australia, if they were permitted in times of stress to approach the department directly. The bill provides for a continuation of the policy the Government has already adopted in connexion with the Commonwealth Bank. The policy of advancing Commonwealth funds to private banking institutions, instead of directly to the primary producers, is not in the best interests of Australia. If my memory serves me well, the Commonwealth Bank not long ago advanced a very large sum of money to the private banking institutions at the rate of 4 per  cent., and they later on charged the primary producers, manufacturers, and others, to whom they made advances, from 6 to 7 per cent. 
When did that transaction occur? 
And how much was advanced ? 
The Note Issue Board, and not the Commonwealth Bank, made that money available. 
At that time the Note Issue Board was quite a separate body. 
On what grounds? 
I am afraid the honorable senator does not understand the nature of the transaction to which he has referred. 
Labour party established the Commonwealth Bank in the interests of the people, but in the last twelve months its purpose has been altogether altered by this Government. Instead of operating in the interests of the people and helping them in times of financial difficulty, it is to-day operating in the interests of, and providing backing for, the private financial institutions. Honorable senators on this side of the chamber hope that this state of affairs will be remedied during the next few months, for we anticipate that a change of government will occur. One of the first actions of the next Labour Government will be to place the Commonwealth Bank on its original footing. This bill does not go far enough. I recognize that the people in our rural areas need assistance, but so do those who live in our urban and suburban districts. In my opinion the Commonwealth Bank should be empowered to assist the people to solve the housing problem. No question is more important to our people to-day than that of housing. Honorable senators opposite may say that that is altogether outside the scope of the bill, but I contend that it should be provided for in it. 
I have much pleasure in supporting the bill. For a long time now I have given a good deal of thought to the need for rural credits, and I welcome this measure. I have not heard the whole of the ( debate, but I agree with the remarks of those honorable senators who have urged that the measure does not go far enough. However, it is a genuine attempt to help the most deserving class of people in the country, namely, our primary producers, and perhaps it is as well that the scheme should be started in such a way as to permit of its enlargement in the future. I propose to direct attention to certain improvements, which I think could be made in the measure; but as the Government has given us an earnest of its sincerity, I question if it would be advisable unnecessarily to harass Ministers who are responsible for the passage of this legislation. 
I do not think so. It should be possible, by regulations, to do all that may bo necessary. Undoubtedly our farmers have been severely handicapped hitherto because they have not been able to obtain adequate financial assistance to permit of the more orderly marketing of their products. Under this scheme the return to the producers will probably be appreciably increased, because they will be in a position to hold their produce against periods of scarcity. Honorable senators opposite have objected that advances to be made by the Rural Credits Department must be either through the Commonwealth Bank itself, or through other private trading banks. This provision, I submit, is absolutely necessary, because, for the present, cooperative organizations of primary producers, and individual farmers who, later, may get advances, have their banking arrangements with private trading banks. The Commonwealth Bank is not large enough. Its ramifications do not extend throughout the entire community. If, as has been urged, applications should be made either to the Commonwealth Bank or the Rural Credits Department direct, thousands of banking accounts would have to be transferred from private trading banks -to the Commonwealth Bank, and chaos would result. 
The private banks would go out of existence, and the Commonwealth Bank would be paramount. 
And robbed them, too. 
-How did they treat our primary producers in 1891, 1892, and 1893? They declared a dividend of 12 per cent., and hung outside their doors the notice - "Business suspended." 
SenatorJ. B. HAYES. - It can be seasoned in from twelve to eighteen months. A saw-miller would require a sufficient advance to pay wages for a year ahead. 
SenatorJ. B. HAYES. - I realize that the bank will have plenty to do for the time in catering for co-operative societies and corporations, bub when it has mastered that aspect, I hope that the principle of the bill will be extended to individuals. I wish to make a plea for the adoption by the Commonwealth of the credit foncier system of lending money on mortgage. In some of the States, notably in Victoria, this excellent system is in operation. The Victorian Government, . through the State Savings Bank, lends money to farmers on good security. It would be of the utmost advantage to farmers, many of whom have valuable properties and are hard-working men, if they could renew their mortgages through the Commonwealth Bank. The interest rate would be a little less than they are now paying, and, with a slight additional effort, they would establish sinking funds that would extinguish the loans after a term of 25 or 30 years. The farmers would then have no more bother with mortgages and legal costs, and instead of getting further into debt every year, as they now are, they wouldyear by year improve their positions and finally be free from debt. There is plenty of scope in all the States for the Commonwealth Bank to enter this field of activity, and establish a branch for loans on broad acres under the credit foncier system. I do not know of anything that would be. more advantageous to the average farmer than this, for he has to go somewhere for his money. I believe that the intentions of the Government in regard to this bill are very good, and will be realized. The measure provides for a very considerable expansion of the bank's activities, and I hope that its usefulness will be extended in the direction that I and some other honorable senators advocate. 
Like previous speakers, I am glad that the bill has made its appearance in this Chamber. The time is quite opportune for something to be done to assist a class of the community that badly needs help. Ostensibly, the bill is intended to benefit the rural community. It is quite true that that section has had various forms of assistance in the past, for the reason that it was thought that if assistance was not given the interests of, not only that section, but also the whole community, would be prejudicially affected. This particular form of assistance is not new, but we believe that the bill will provide a more ample measure of relief to the producing interests of the country than has been furnished in the  past.  This measure has given an opportunity to some honorable senators to indulge in rare flights of fancy. We have been reminded of what the Labour party has done in the past, and it is asserted that this Government is merely, so to speak, stealing the thunder of that party. If argument of that nature satisfies honorable senators opposite, it is an innocent form of amusement with which I am not inclined to find much fault. But those who think that the Labour party originated and brought into existence many of the reforms for which they claim exclusive authorship should remember that these things were in existence before that party was formed in Australia or even thought of. We had State railways and State steamships founded by governments and parties  that  never called themselves Labour. We had State steamships on the coast of Queensland run by a government of the day, which, I believe, showed a far better balance-sheet than is shown by State steamships to-day. State hotels were brought into existence by a nonLabour Government in Western Australia, and under the control of: that government flourished and did better than they have done in later days. We also had the effort of the South Australian Government to create a State Export Department for purposes similar to,  ii  not identical with, those this bill is intended to serve. That effort also was not originated by a Labour Government. The old Labour party, in contradistinction to the present-day Labour .party, was always prepared to acknowledge the authorship of these reforms. The State Export Department of South Australia took  the-  produce of the farmer, who chose to market it through the department, and either placed "it on the local market or sent it to London. By its efforts the producers were, placed in a much better position than they previously occupied. It used to advance liberal sums on produce entrusted to its care. Furthermore, whenever there was a glut to the disadvantage of rural producers, it went into the market and bought up the excess production, and so relieved the situation to the advantage of the producers. 
State banks are no new thing. The Agricultural Bank of Western Australia was started by the Forrest Administration, and State banks existed in other States. Therefore, when honorable senators indulge in the pastime of claiming the authorship of many of these "reforms, all I can say in reply is that many of them existed prior to 25 years ago when the Labour' party was first formed in Australia. It is, therefore, foolish of honorable senators opposite to claim for the Labour party all the credit for these things. They ought to be broad-minded enough to admit that other parties and other individuals, long before the Labour party had arisen in Australia, embarked upon similar enterprises with more or less success. 
In regard to the bill itself, I point out that we have no certainty as to the exact position of the interests in the Commonwealth which it is intended to benefit. This condition of affairs  causes  me, at the risk of being considered egotistical, to recall that not long ago in this Parliament I pointed out that we were sadly in need -of a statistical department which would tell us exactly the position of any interests that came forward claiming State assistance, so that we might be in a better position to give a judgment upon the merits of the claims before granting or denying the assistance asked for. At present we can only say by way of a random shot that the rural interests of Australia stand in need of help, and that, therefore, it is right for the Government to come forward by way of a communal effort, and give help to those who are in need of it. We do not know from authentic sources that they are in need of it. We can only make, as I say, a chance calculation, and declare that we can tell from various portents, that the rural interests which stand at the basis of the prosperity of the Commonwealth, are not as well off as others in the community. On those general grounds we think that they  ought ^ to be assisted, and we afford them assistance. My proposal made some time ago was that there ought to be an inter-industrial commission authorized by legislation to investigate the circumstances of every individual industry, in order that Parliament would be authoritatively informed at any period upon the position of that industry, and would thus be in a better position to judge upon the rights or wrongs of any claim it might put forward for assistance. In the absence of such an investigation, we can act only on the declarations of interested parties. I do not say that the declarations of interested parties are intended to deceive Parliament, but the evidence thus put forward could nob be as authentic as would be the evidence that would be obtained by having the statistical position of the industry determined by an independent body of the description I have mentioned. Such institutions exist in other countries. I shall quote from the researches of the institution in the United States of America to show how the rural or farming interests there stand to-day. 
The resources of the United States of America are so vast that most thorough methods can be adopted in estimating even to a fractional point whether or not this or that industry is in a flourishing position. The Bureau of Agriculture in America has been able to gather statistics that throw a. flood of light on the rural interests of the States. In the absence of any information of a like character in Australia, these figures help us to form some idea of the position of the same interests here, and give us some guidance for the adoption of the policy we propose to shape in affording assistance to primary producers. The information I shall quote is taken from  The World Almanac,  and is borrowed ill turn from a publication of the Bureau of Agriculture in the United States of America. It gives a clear outline of the rural progress of America in the last five years. I make no apology for inserting the whole of it in  Hansard,  although it is very lengthy. It reads as follows: - 
But for the long hours worked there would not be the apparent prosperity which has attended their efforts. If our primary producers were to work, say, only nine hours a day, the products which are consumed in the cities would be sold at much higher rates than now prevail. It is only because the producers work longer and harder that they are able to compete with those selling similar products in the markets of the world. Farming even in the United States of America is not as profitable as many other industries. Moreover, the United States of America is closer to the large consuming centres than Australia, and if we add to the handicaps already imposed the additional disadvantage of lauding produce in the London markets, the position of  AustraHan  producers is much less satisfactory than that of the producer in the United States of America. It has been said in this chamber and elsewhere that the farming community is " coddled," and receives benefits refused to others. I have shown that it is not so. This form of assistance, which is badly needed and is long overdue, enables the producing section of the community to increase its credit facilities and prevents it being compelled to sell its produce before a fair price can be obtained. The commercial community can avail itself of far greater advantages than the farming community. What would be the position of the producer of 1,000 cases of Tasmanian fruit, 1,000 bags of Western Australian wheat, or 1,000 bales of Queensland wool? While these products were either in transit to the seaboard or on the spot where they were produced, the producer could not obtain the advantage derived by the commercial community so soon as they became the subject of a bill of lading. Immediately a consignment of fruit is placed on board and a bill of lading issued, the person handling it is able to trade upon it, and is, therefore, in a far more advantageous position than the actual producer of the commodity. Under this measure the actual producer will be placed within reasonable distance in point of advantage with the commercial men handling his product. While a consignment of wheat is on the way to the seaboard or in a granary, a higher percentage is charged on any advance made than is the case when it is the subject of a bill of lading. The banks give more favorable terms on goods which are the subject of a bill of lading than otherwise, because they as nearly approach a negotiable asset as is possible. While wool, wheat, fruit, or other produce is finding its way to the shipping port, owners cannot avail themselves of the opportunity to secure an advance, but the person who simply steps in and forms the link between the producer and the consumer is able to do so. A man who sows thousands of bushels of wheat is often termed a wheat-grower, but he is only a wheat sower, as he places the wheat in the ground and very often that is the last he sees of it. A woolgrower may figure on obtaining a certain return, but, instead of receiving what he expects, may only increase his overdraft at the bank. The fruit-growing and dairying industries are also subject to the vagaries of fortune, but immediately the produce of these industries becomes a visible and tangible asset the man who- takes it from the warehouse and places it on board a ship derives the greatest advantage. This is a long-standing anomaly under which our producers have suffered for a very long time, and one which this measure proposes in some way to rectify. There is no reason why the person who takes all the risk should be saddled with an excessive rate of interest, and at the instance of this Government an attempt is now being made to place such persons in a more satisfactory and- advantageous position than they have been before. There should be no occasion for an apology for the introduction of the bill. 
One amendment, however, should be made in order to overcome an anomaly. It is proposed to provide advances on certain forms of dairy produce, but provision has not been made for advances to be made to stock and sheep owners. Advances can be made .on wool  taken from the sheep's back, and in transit to the seaboard, but similar assistance cannot be given to stock-owners. There ;s no reason why the stock %nd sheep owners should not be able to avail themselves of the benefits provided by the bill. 
That may be so, but fruit, which is a perishable commodity, is included. The bill should be amended to include stock upon which advances might safely be made. I make that suggestion in the hope that the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  will see the fairness of placing sheep-farmers and stockowners on the same footing as the owners of other produce. 
Yes. 
I understood the bill was for the purpose of establishing a credit for owners until the produce was marketed. 
I do not see why an owner of 500 sheep should be deprived of the facilities provided in the measure when an adjoining farmer may obtain an advance on his wool. 
Sheep are as good an asset as wool. I do not think there is any occasion for the alarm expressed by  certain  honorable senators, particularly as regards the proposal to make advances to private banks. Money is advanced to institutions, whether incorporated or unincorporated, and to do as some honorable senators suggest would be to place those dealing with such institutions in a most disadvantageous position. It should not be thought that the private banks will obtain the money from this department, and, in giving accommodation to their clients, lend it at a higher rate than that at which they obtained it. If they did, they would be helping to boost the Commonwealth Bank. If the private banks do not give the same terms as the Commonwealth Bank, or certain incorporated organizations, it is quite clear that those who have commodities toship will give their business to the institutions which are prepared to give them the fairest deal. For my part, I see no difficulty at all in the matter. I see a direct inducement to the private banks to avail themselves of the use of the extra money and advance it to the farmers, on the same basis as the Commonwealth Bank and the farmers' organizations of Western Australia, South Australia, and elsewhere. The bill is much needed by our primary producers. It will enable them to offer a more sturdy resistance when they are overtaken by unfavorable circumstances. Every fair-minded citizen must realize that the farming community confers a direct benefit upon all, and, therefore, merits whatever assistance he can give it If the dwellers in our cities and towns will not help the farmers, the time will come when the farmers will leave their farms and come to the cities to live. Should that happen the last state of our people will be worse than the first. The agricultural communitydeserves every assistance that wecan give it. By helping it we are helping to develop the country generally. I could be led into very seductive paths in pursuit of this topic, but I must not yield to the temptation. The farmers, as we know, are up earlier and later, and work harder, than other sections of the community. 
That is so. They suffer much greater hardships than the city dwellers. One direct result of that is that we pay much less for their produce than would otherwise be the case. We ought to do everything we can to keep our people on the countryside, for that will tend to advance Australia. East and west, and north and south, there are signs of agricultural stagnation. It is well known that men frequently go out to inspect land only to return to the city determined to stay in it. The passing of this bill ought to improve, in a small degree, the lot of the farmer and primary producers generally. There is no comradeship or fairness in obliging one section of the community to work harder and longer than other sections. I accept this bill as an indication of the sympathy of the Government for the farmer. I am sure that the farmers will make full use of its provisions to our benefit, as well as to their own. 
If some honorable senators are to be believed, the farmers are in a chronic state of impecuniosity. It is positively painful to hear the prolonged and . continuous wail that is made in their behalf. I do not for a moment believe that they are in anything like the serious predicament that some honorable senators describe. Taken as a class, they are just as well, if not better, off than the residents of our cities and suburbs. With the advantages of wireless communication, cheap means of transit by motor cars, and up-to-date agricultural machinery, their lot is wonderfully improved compared with what it was years ago. It must not be forgotten that the workers in the cities manufacture the implements which make the farmers' work easy and enable them to do far more in a given time than was possible in former days. Railway facilities are at their disposal, and, altogether, their lot is not at all hard. With up-to-date drills, strippers, and other machinery the hard manual work on the farm of to-day is negligible. 
But the honorable senator cannot deny that their lot is made easy by the modern implements manufactured in our cities. Farmers now do not do one-hundredth part of the work that they used to do. I have made these remarks in fairness to the workers in our manufacturing areas. The worker in the city is just as necessary as the farmer in the country. Both are essential, and they should co-operate. To say the farmer is the backbone of the country- 
Senatorguthrie. - Everybody knows that he is. 
To say that is, it seems to me, to ignore the worker in the city, who makes the farming implements. 
Largely on account of our silly policy of protection, of which the honorable senator is such a staunch advocate. 
-By the aid of machinery manufactured in the cities. We have been assured that the farmers are obliged to pay unduly high rates of interest for borrowed money with which they carry on their operations. I am quite prepared to believe that that is so. 
That, also, is true. We are told that the object of the Government in introducing this measure is to enable our primary producers to obtain money at lower rates of interest. If that end is achieved there will be a large increase in the unimproved value of. our agricultural land. Probably the Government also desires that result, but it has not said so. Ostensibly the bill provides that advances may be made only on certain specified products ; but proposed new sub-section  60 aba  of the proposed new Part VI. of the principal act reads - 
In this Part, unless the contrary intention appears, " primary produce " means wool, grain, butter, cheese, fresh, preserved or dried fruits, hops, cotton, sugar, and such other produce as is prescribed. 
It appears to me, therefore, that advances may be made on any produce, and not only on that specified. In that case the fears expressed by some honorable senators that the bill is not sufficiently comprehensive are groundless. The Government will have authority to make advances on any produce. I do not think there is any need for the bill, for, in my opinion, the original charter of the Commonwealth Bank was sufficiently comprehensive to enable advances to be made on any of the produce that I have just mentioned, but I do not object to it. I should like to see other departments aswell as a Rural Credits Department connected with the bank. I welcome the proposal that the accounts of this department shall be kept quite separate from those of the other departments of the bank. It would be interesting to many thousands of people if a more explicit and less complicated balance-sheet of the Commonwealth Bank could be published.However, if a separate statement is published from time to time of the operations: of the Rural Credits Department we. shall at least know how it stands. It is difficult to ascertain to what extent the department will be equipped with funds. It appears that the Treasurer will be empowered to lend up to  £3,000,000,  and that  25  per cent. of the profits of the Note Issue Department, representing, I understand,  £250,000  annually, will be placed to the credit of the new department. This may be continued until the amount so paid reaches a total of  £2,000,000.  Apparently this will take eight or nine years. Thebank will also have the right to issue debentures up to, apparently,  £12,000,000,  and may make an advance from, I assume, the profits accruing from the operations of the bank. It would appear, therefore, that in the near future the new department will have command of from  £15,000,000  to  £20,000,000.  This is a mere bagatelle for Australia, but it will do for a beginning. Exception should be taken to clause  60abi,  which provides for advances by the Rural Credits Department -  . . . upon the security of primary produce placed under the legal control of the bank, to - 
co-operative associations formed under the law of the Commonwealth, a State, or a Territory under the auditarity of the Commonwealth; and (c)such corporations or unincorporate bodies formed under the law of the Commonwealth, a State, or a Territory under the authority of the Commonwealth, as are specified by proclamation. 
I fail to see why the Commonwealth Bank should establish a rural credits department to make advances to other banks. The directors should be informed in the plainest possible terms that they are not doing their duty by persistently neglecting to open new branches of the bank. I am not quite certain how many branches are in operation, but I understand that there are only about  75  in the Commonwealth. This number is not nearly sufficient to meet the requirements of the public, and it is proposed to prevent any further extension of the Commonwealth Bank by paying to the credit of the Rural Credits Department  25  per cent. of the net annual profits of the Note Issue Department. This sourceof revenue should be used for the purpose of extending the operations of the bank. It would be far better if the directorsof the bank could be induced to open rural branches, so that producerscould take advantage of this institution. 
I have yet to learn that the Rural Credits Department will be attached to the savings bank branches of the bank. If that were done it would considerably extend the operations of the bank itself. I notice also that one-half of the net profits of the Rural Credits Department is to be placed to the credit of what is described as the Rural Credits Department reserve fund, and one-half to the credit of the rural credits development fund, to be used for the promotion of primary production. It is difficult to see the limitation of the powers of the board under this clause, and it is almost impossible to say where the operations of the department will extend. I do not offer any objection, but I think all that is necessary can be done without the creation of a new department at all. This, however, is a detail upon which the bank directors may better be able to express an opinion than I am; but if it is necessary to establish a special department of the bank to advance money to primary producers, I suggest that the time is opportune for the creation of another branch for the building of homes. I know that I shall be met with a statement that the savings banks of the various States are doing this work already. As a matter of fact, all  exisitng  homebuilding agencies are quite unable to meet the demands for housing accommodation. It would be as well, therefore, if the directors of the bank were urged to establish, as soon as possible, a homesbuilding branch on lines similar to this proposed new department, the purpose of which is to lend money on the most reasonable terms to persons engaged in primary production. Notwithstanding all that has been done to provide homes for the people, rents were never so high, and there was never so much overcrowding as at the present time. It may be urged that the creation of a homes-building department of the Commonwealth Bank would not get over the present difficulty, but it would be at least a step in the right direction. One very important result of the scheme, if it is fully developed, will be that profits derived from primary production will be greater ; people engaged in that business will have less interest to pay, and life in the country will be a great deal better than it has been. It is highly desirable to legislate for the improvement of the conditions under which our' primary producers carry on their avocations, both with regard to the hours of labour and their returns. 
I have not the slightest doubt that they could. Why should a farmer be expected  Jo  work excessively long hours when people in other industries are required to work only 44 hours  1  I listened very carefully to  Senator J.  B. Hayes, who advocated an extension of the provisions of the bill to include the sawmilling and allied industries. If advances could be made in respect of such industries, sawmills in Tasmania and elsewhere, which, I understand, are&gt; working at only about 50 per cent, of their capacity, would be more fully employed. Production would be stimulated, and, unless there was ' an increase in consumption, we might be faced with unpleasant consequences in the not distant future. Another important result which I think will follow the enactment of this measure will be a substantial and permanent increase in the value of land. I hope, therefore, that when we ask our primary producers to make some recompense by agreeing to the payment of a straight-out land value tax to assist the national revenue, they will not refuse. 
I support the bill, which I welcome as a further evidence of the desire of the Government, and those associated with the Commonwealth Bank, to extend its usefulness. It is better to take one step at a time than rush into extravagant and risky expenditure by altering the bill so as to meet the objections raised to it this afternoon. Since existing financial institutions- will be interfered with, the greatest possible aare should be taken to avert a crisis. The intention of Parliament is to benefit an important section of the community, and it would be a strange bill indeed if some adverse criticism could not be offered. I realize that such criticism often tends to improve a measure, but we were told this afternoon by  Senator Gibbs  that at last the Government had lifted an important plank from the platform of the Labour party and adopted it as its own. Then he and other honorable senators proceeded to criticize adversely this plonk of the Labour platform which the Government was accused of stealing. This party and this Government are not so blind, and, I hope, never will be, as to refuse to adopt any measure that will promote the welfare of the people. If this bill happens to be in ac-' cord with the policy of the Labour party, it is well that  the party in power should not refrain on that account from supporting it, and even those honorable senators opposite who are giving it adverse criticism should accord it a favorable reception. It has been said that some provisions which might have been included have been omitted. One of the matters that has caused some adverse criticism is the omission of provision for the urban home seeker. I do not know that this individual will not be provided for under the bill, since fairly extensive powers are generally taken under an act when those administering it are permitted to make regulations. This bill provides for the making of regulations, and whether under them the urban home builder will be assisted or not he is already amply provided for in most of, if indeed not all, the States. I do not know that he could be very much better served under this bill than he is by the financial organizations established under State legislation. 
The honorable senator will see by the bill that primary produce includes "such other produce as is prescribed." It is said that houses were never so scarce, and rents never so high as they are at the present time. This is not clue to the fact that money cannot he procured to build them. There are other reasons why homes are not being erected as quickly as people would like.  Senator J.  B. Hayes expressed regret that timber has not been mentioned as a class of primary produce to which the bill applies ; but it seems to me that the board would be able to make advances on timber if it considered it wise to do so. I do not know whether timber was omitted accidentally, or by design. No doubt there was thought to be some very good reason for the omission: but, so far as I can see, timber is a commodity with regard to which there would be less risk than any class of produce with which the bill specifically deals. It is one of the few products that improves with age. Of course, the demand for Australian timber is likely to be affected by large importations from overseas. I am informed that about 60 per cent, of the sawmills in Australia are now closed down.. because American timber has been rushed into the country in tremendous quantities and at a very cheap rate. I understand that after the recent disastrous earthquake in Japan, American merchants saw an opportunity to get rid of a large quantity of their timber, and large supplies were rushed to the seaboard for that purpose. But the Japanese decided to adopt the more substantial concrete for the re-building of their devastated cities  and towns, and therefore the timber which was left on the hands of the merchants came to Australia. I believe that that is very largely why there is such a tremendous slump in the timber industry in Australia to-day. 
There is always a danger of drought on the one hand, and overproduction on the other; but these are temporary ' drawbacks. which adjust themselves in the course of time. Last year we passed legislation which has, I believe, extended the usefulness of the Commonwealth Bank, and the present bill should further increase it. A board of management was appointed, in order to obtain the best financial advice available in conducting the affairs of the institution. When the bill providing for the board's appointment was brought in, it met with strenuous opposition from the honorable senators who are now adversely criticizing the present measure, which, in my opinion, effects just such an improvement as the board was called into existence to bring about. I am sure that the bill will prove of great advantage to the primary producers. Whilst we are anxious that every section of the community should benefit by our legislation, I am confident that no measure designed to help the primary producer as this bill will do, could fail to confer a corresponding boon upon the artisan and the secondary producer. The proposal will enable the primary producer to spend more money than he has had in the past for extending his operations and adopting more up-to-date methods of cultivation, and the general improvement in his own conditions will be reflected in those of the .artisans employed by the manufacturers of agricultural machinery and other requisites of the producer. Moreover, it will enable .the primary producer to control his own produce through his own organizations. . Like other honorable senators who have offered words of criticism, I should like to see the bank deal with individuals. I recognize, however, that the measure represents a beginning in the right direction, and, as far as it goes, I am satisfied with it, in that it will enable the primary producer to control his produce through his own organizations. A few years ago, he could .not be induced to join any association for his own benefit, but to-day there arc many organizations in the States .that handle the ordinary products of the farm, and through which the farmer will, under this bill, be able to control his produce from the time it leaves his  hands  until it reaches the consumers.  It  will not be necessary for him in future, as it has been in the past, to part with his produce the moment it is marketable, whether it be butter,  cheese,  wheat, or anything else, but he will be able to store it and dispose of it to the best advantage. He has been obliged in the past to sell it as soon as possible to enable him to live. Now his organizations will receive an advance against the produce, and will give him out of the advance made whatever .sum they may .think proper. The organizations will be able to regulate the supply and distribution of the produce. Thinking people in Australia have long recognized the urgent need for action along these lines. No provision is made from year to year against the possibility of crop failures owing to droughts or other causes. It is within the recollection of most honorable senators that when droughts in Australia were very severe, lasting over a number of years, we were obliged to buy at high prices produce which was necessary for the existence of the people. If, as a result of the passing of 4 his bill, something is done to keep, from year to year, a reserve supply of produce so that Australia will never again be faced with the necessity of having to import wheat and other primary produce, it will be &lt;©f great advantage to consumers and producers alike. It has been suggested that this and similar legislation is an attempt to coddle the farmer, but I should be very sorry to think that we .are ever asked to pass legislation that - can honestly .be described as an attempt to coddle any section of the community. This bill is intended to give to a very deserving .section of the community a form of relief to which it is justly entitled, and which it is in the best interests of the country to give. As every transaction carried out under the provisions of the bill will be of a purely business character, the risk of loss to the community will be minimized, as far as possible, and the interests of the bank, as well as those of the primary producer, will be safeguarded. Exception has been taken to the statement that the farmer is the back-bone 'of Australia. I do not think any section of the community should be regarded as the back-bone of the country. Each set of industrialists is entirely dependent on every other section. No single section can last long without working in unison with every other section. It is very important that the farmers should be encouraged to gain from  the  soil sufficient, not only to meet the requirements of the people of Australia, but also to permit of export. We have passed, recently, bounty bills and other measures to permit of the better marketing of our produce. This bill will provide the means for rendering those measures more effective, "and more beneficial and profitable to the farmer and Australia .generally. We should not confine our efforts to markets already established. This bill will enable the farmers' organizations to come into line for the purpose of exploiting other markets with tremendously beneficial results to the people of Australia. For instance, Australia has been very remiss in opening up markets in those eastern 'countries which travellers tell us provide a wonderful opportunity for the disposal of oar produce. The legislation recently passed should have the effect of stabilizing .our primary industries, and maintaining higher rates of wages for the worker* .in -our secondary industries. This, in turn, should result in  an increased demand for the produce of the farmers. Having regard to the wonderful conditions under which men live and work in Australia, * there should be no limit to the possibilities of our production; but we can progress only when men work in harmony with one another, and when they realize that no matter what their individual concern may fee, they are working in the best interests of the country only when they operate in combination with each other and with every desire to avoid disputes between one -section and another. The present Government has done more than any other government in Australia to assist towards that laudable end. It has made no attempt at any lime to reduce wages, cut prices, or interfere with primary or secondary production. On the contrary, its legislation has been designed to assist those who are taking part in the development of this great country of ours. Its legislation should go far to bring about more employment. 'This in turn should induce more people to come to Australia, with a consequent increased demand for produce, clothing and manufactures of all descriptions, and, what is of far greater moment to the people of Australia, a reduction in the incidence of taxation, and, possibly, in time, a reduction in taxation itself. For all these reasons, and for many others which I could elaborate, I support this bill. One could paint a very glowing picture of what would be the position of Australia if all sections would work together as they ought to do. One very important effect of this legislation will be to free the primary producer from the middleman. I have no fault to find with the middleman. He may be a necessary part of our national make-up, but he invariably does better than the primary producer or the average consumer. At any rate, this bill will enable the farmers to organize among themselves and avoid the necessity of employing middlemen.. The share of the profits that is now taken by the latter would thus go to the producers themselves. The establishment of a rural credits department is only one of the extensions that will be made by the Commonwealth Bank from time to time. I urge those who are impatient and think that the bank is not progressing fast enough to realize that it is better that it should progress step by step to the goal we all have in mind. It is better that it should proceed on safe and sound lines rather than hastily launch out upon ventures new to 1?his and every other country. There is nothing more delicate in our national make-up than finance. Nothing is more calculated to bring disaster upon a community than undue interference with the wonderful, complex, and difficult-to-understand problems of finance. Therefore, it is well that the Commonwealth Bank and the Government should proceed gradually in seeking to extend the usefulness of the institution for the benefit of the prinia-ry producers and of every other section of the community. 
.- I have been waiting to hear some honorable senator opposite express his approval of this legislation, which, containing, as it does, provisions that must be for the good of the country, is of the utmost importance to the whole community, I have been surprised to hear honorable senators opposite level criticism at this first attempt to do something of a ' tangible character to help the man on the land. 
The honorable senator and his colleagues have failed to realize that from 1914 to 1923 the 'Commonwealth Bank was engaged, to a large extent, in work associated with the raising of money to meet our war obligations, and consequently had little time to devote to proposals such as this. I do not think the measure is perfect, but it is a beginning of what I hope will eventually develop into an extensive scheme under which all our producers -may be assisted by the Commonwealth Bank. Clause 3 restricts the operations of the bank in the matter of advances to certain, primary products enumerated, but advances may also be made on such other produce as may be prescribed. When the bank commences operations in the direction provided in the bill, it may be found possible to include other products which, at the outset, must inevitably be excluded. I agree with what  Senator  3.  B. Hayes has said to the effect that provision should be made as speedily as possible to extend the facilities to other producers, whose products should be included in the definition of " produce." One honorable senator interjected that the object of the bill is to advance money to those producing for export, but there is no such ' restriction in the bill. Some of the States have built up large commercial connexions with other States, as, for instance, Tasmania, which is doing a large business with New South Wales in potatoes, which should be classed as produce under clause 3. On many occasions, when there has been a glut on the Sydney market, potatoes have been sold at a price 25 per cent, below the cost of production ; but later in the year there has been a scarcity, and prices have risen to an exceedingly high level. If, by means of co-operation, the potato-growers could be assured of the necessary financial assistance from the Commonwealth Bank, they could hold their stocks until there was a shortage, and thus regulate the supply and price throughout the year. I do not suggest that advantage should be taken of the bill to enable the growers to inflate prices, but merely that it should enable them to obtain fair and reasonable rates. I endorse what  Senator J.  B. Hayes has said concerning the timber industry in Tasmania, where a majority of the timber mills &lt;:are closed down, largely owing to lack of the necessary capital to enable the mill-owners to place properly seasoned timber on the market. The futility of marketing green or partly seasoned timber must be apparent. If those engaged in the industry were assured of financial help, to carry them through the season, they would be able to keep their racks filled, and timber users  would  be assured of a regular supply of properly seasoned material. In many of the buildings erected during the last few years, green timber has been used, and those who have erected homes have been compelled in many cases to incur further expenditure in effecting repairs. I should, therefore, like the Government to consider the advisableness of providing assistance to the timber industry under this measure. I have been astounded at the opinions expressed in different parts of Australia to the effect that we are impoverishing our forests by our sawmilling operations, and that it would be more advantageous to use imported softwoods than our own  hardwoods.  Any  one  making such state- ments must be ignorant of our forestry conditions. It is well known that only timber suitable for milling is cut, and if we had to rely upon imported soft timbers many millions of feet of marketable timber that can now be produced would rot in our forests. At a certain age trees are fit for milling, and if left, say, another ten years, the centre decays, although the exterior may appear to be sound. The only way to secure a proper system of reafforestation is to utilize to the best advantage the timber suitable for milling, and at the same .time plant young trees. During the past five or six years those engaged in farming, grazing, and other rural pursuits have found it very difficult to obtain the necessary financial assistance. I welcome the suggestion made to-day that at the earliest possible moment the credit foncier system should be introduced to enable farmers who have mortgages on their properties to obtain financial assistance through the Commonwealth Bank, as, I understand, farmers in Tasmania and other States, whose mortgages are about to mature, or have already matured, find the utmost difficulty in obtaining money. It has been exceedingly difficult to obtain advances from private banking institutions during the last few years, and when we remember that the Commonwealth Bank can safeguard its position by requiring the necessary margin before a loan is granted, no objection should be offered to this further proposal. The Commonwealth' Bank would be utilizing the money which belongs to the people, and there is no better way in which it could be used than in the manner indicated. It is, of course, absolutely essential that it should be very careful that advances are only made on undoubted securities, because a loss to the bank would be a loss to the people. I trust the bill will receive the unanimous support df the Senate, and that during the next session the Government will extend the operations of the bank iri the direction I have indicated, and thus confer a great benefit upon deserving sections of the community. 
I have to thank honorable senators for the cordial reception given the bill. The Government cannot, of course.  undertake to meet the wishes of everybody, but it is pleasing to know that there is a good deal of unanimity as to the desirableness of the general principles of the measure. Although there is not a great deal of criticism to answer, there are one or two points that were raised during the debate to which I wish to refer. In the first place the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham)  said that under the existing act there is power to grant financial assistance to the rural producers. That is true; but. there is no provision in the existing act to supply the necessary funds. A little later the honorable senator quoted the section of the principal act which limits the power of the bank to issue debentures to £1,000,000, which would not go far in financing the extensive operations associated with the marketing of our primary products. I do not know why  Senator Needham  should take strong exception to the clause under which the Rural Credits Department can make advances on produce under the legal control of other banks, because there is nothing in this measure to compel producers to go to other banks. They could come to the Rural Credits Department through their associations if they wished to do so. If for convenience, or, perhaps, for the reason that they thought they could get better terms, they wished to go elsewhere, they should be at liberty to do so. In the long run, it will be in the interests of the primary producers for the Rural Credits Department to make advances to the private banking institutions. A primary producer who finds that it pays him better to obtain his advances from his own cooperative society, which deals direct with the Rural Credits Department rather than from private banks, will undoubtedly go to it.  Senator Needham  revived his old objection to the Commonwealth, Bank having been made a banker's bank. That matter is quite outside the scope of this bill. I never could understand why honorable senators opposite took exception to our making the Commonwealth Bank what is called a banker's bank. The amending bill which was before us last year certainly extended the functions of the bank in its relation to other banks, but did not take away one iota of its power to carry on general banking business. 
That is so. Extra power was given to the bank, but its existing power was not weakened or circumscribed in the way that honorable senators opposite seem to imagine. It still possesses the powers conferred upon . it by the original Commonwealth Bank Act introduced by the Labour government. If there is any fault in it to-day it was in it originally. 
Not at all. The honorable senator cannot name a single section of the act passed last year which in any way limits the powers of the bank in regard to its general banking business. I invite him to search the act with the object of finding such a section, but I know that he will fail. The honorable senator claimed for the official Labour party the credit of the principle of this bill. In support of his claim he stated that the honorable member for Bourke  (Mr. Anstey)  moved to insert in the last amending Commonwealth Bank Bill, when it was before another place last year, an amendment on similar lines to the proposal now before us, and he took considerable pleasure in pointing out that  Dr. Earle  Page and his fellow-members of the Country party, as well as other supporters of the Government, voted against it. "What  Mr. Anstey  did on that occasion was to play an old political trick that had often been played before, and will be played again.'  Mr. Anstey  knew that the platforms of the Country party and the Nationalist party provided for a rural credits scheme. As a matter of fact, the Composite Government, of which  Dr. Earle  Page is a member, was giving consideration to that very matter when the last amending Commonwealth Bank Bill was' being drafted. It decided, however, to make two bites at the cherry. The provision of a rural credits scheme involved a totally different principle from that on which the last Commonwealth Bank Bill was based, and the Government decided to introduce two bills.  Mr. Anstey  introduced the amendment referred to by  Senator Needham  merely to secure for his party some slight political advantage by attempting to try to lead the public to believe that both the Country party and the Nationalist party, in voting against his amendment, had voted against a principle of their own platforms. 
The official Labour parly is not entitled to claim that this principle is peculiar to its platform. I think  Senator Needham  was unfair in his criticism of the associated banks in respect of the action taken last year to overcome a difficult financial situation. 
In my opinion, the honorable senator was unfair. He inferred that the difficulties that had to be met at that time were created by the associated banks, and that the associated banks were in some way responsible for the position in which Australia found herself in respect to her primary produce. Nobody with even the most elementary knowledge of the circumstances could say that, for they would know, first of all, that not merely Australia, birt practically every part of the British Empire was embarrassed. The trouble was primarily a question of exchange, but it was also a question of credits. Every part of the Empire that had exportable goods was faced with a difficult situation. South Africa, New Zealand, and also Canada to some extent, were in a like position with regard to that portion of their products that had to be sold in the European market. South Africa found a way out by means of her production of gold, and so practically pointed the way to the ultimate cure for the rest of the Empire. Undoubtedly it was the restoration of the gold standard that eventually remedied the situation. To say that the associated banks of Australia were responsible for the state of affairs that existed would be like saying that a fly on a wheel was responsible for the wheel going round. The associated banks did not create the trouble, and they were absolutely powerless to cure it. What was done at that time as a temporary means to overcome, or at least to lessen, the difficulty was that the Note Issue Board sanctioned a tem porary inflation of our note issue. Nobody pretended that it would be a permanent cure, but it was hoped that it would be a palliative. The additional currency was made available for use through the existing banking machinery. Honorable senators opposite seem to think that some injustice was perpetrated on the primary producers of this country because that course was adopted.  Senator Gibbs  said that £5,000,000 of additional currency was made available, handed to the private banks at 4 per cent., and retailed by them to the primary producers at &amp; per cent, or 7 per cent. He argued, on that Basis, that- if the Commonwealth Bank could lend to the private banks at 4 per cent it could even more effectively lend direct to the primary producers at die same rate of interest. Such a statement shows an ignorance of the most elementary principles of banking, and of our existing financial machinery. The situation could be dealt with only by the whole of the financial resources of the Commonwealth. The money that was made available eased the position, but it only did so because it went through the' private banks. If £5,00O,Q00 had been simply added to the currency resources of the Commonwealth Bank, it would only have been a chip in porridge, for the Commonwealth Bank, in its general banking operations then, was probably the smallest of the banks in Australia. What was needed was that the whole of the banks that were interested in the disposal of Australia's produce overseas should have available sufficient currency to enable them to transact their business. The fact that the Note Issue Board made it available was beneficial, most of all, to the primary producers. Possibly, the private banking institutions made some profit out of their transactions. 
But it cannot be denied that many of our primary producers were saved from ruin because that money was made available at that time. Last year  Senator Duncan,  and, I think,  Senator Guthrie,  stated in this chamber, that unless additional currency was made available there would be no wool sales. 
There would certainly have been great difficulty in financing the wool clip. 
That money saved the situation last year. 
Hay is not men- .  tioned  in the bill, but it is very necessary for farmers to be able to obtain advances against it. 
A sheep-grower may get an advance on his wool, at all events. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and committed,  pro forma. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.25 to 8 p.m. 

In view of the fact that a, certain inquiry is being held in Sydney, and certain persons have been called upon to account for their conduct, I consider it inadvisable at the present juncture to proceed with the discussion of notice of motion No. 1, standing in my name, in regard to a grave industrial disturbance. I therefore ask that consideration of the motion be postponed until the next day of sitting. 
I want the persons concerned to have a fair trial. 
A week or so ago I had occasion to reply to a proposal submitted in this chamber by  Senator Ogden  on lines somewhat similar to those of the present motion. The arguments that I then used will apply largely to  Senator Lynch's  proposition.  Senator Ogden's  motion, however, was unconstitutional in that it suggested that the coasting provisions of the Navigation Act in relation to the carriage of passengers should be suspended so far as Tasmania was concerned, whereas  Senator Lynch's  proposal is that the suspension should apply to all parts of the Commonwealth. The subject of the effect of the Navigation Act has been reasonably and, I might say, almost fully debated this session, for we have had two motions dealing with it, and have also passed quite recently an amending bill. Reference has been made to the findings of the royal commission that was appointed to inquire into the operation of the Navigation Act, but I say again that the Government has not had an opportunity of fully considering the recommendations made. There are in reality three reports by the commission, and until the department has gone thoroughly into the matter, and the Minister also has considered it, the attitude of the Government on the question cannot be made known. 
There are so many troubles facing the Government at the present time that it is impossible for me to say when it will be in a. position to come to a decision ; but as soon as normal - conditions obtain, the matter will receive the close attention that it deserves. The motion proposes to do away with all the privileges conferred by the Navigation Act. 
Whether or not an  opportunity will be afforded to deal with that question this session I am unable to say, but I can assure the honorable senator, on behalf of the Government, that the recommendations of the commission will be carefully considered, with a view to studying the interests of all sections of the people. I ask, therefore, that the motion be not pressed at the present juncture. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Duncan)  adjourned. 
Before announcing the Govern^ ment's intention regarding this motion, I desire to draw attention to one or two points that were mentioned by  Senator J.  B. Hayes in his very friendly speech. Among other statements, he said - 
In Victoria there is an excellent body known as the Country Roads Board, and if it were entrusted with the expenditure of Victoria's share of the Federal grant, better value for the money would be obtained than if the work were carried out by another authority.  . . Its work is an earnest of what the Federal Government could expect if it handed its money over without conditions. I have no doubt that it would be equally well expended, and the taxpayers would be satisfied. 
May I point out that this is exactly what is done, not only in Victoria, but in all the other States? Victoria, is not the only State with a roads board. Queensland and New South Wales have similar bodies, and South Australia has a roads authority of a similar nature, namely, the Engineer and Director of Local Government. In Western Australia and Tasmania, the work is entrusted by the State Governments to the Public Works Department. In every State," the expenditure is wholly entrusted to the local authorities. They prepare and submit the schedules of roads on which the money is to be expended, and, on approval, carry out the work according to their own survey, plans and specifications, the only conditions imposed by the Federal Government being those in the Main Roads Act and the regulations regarding location, character of construction, and method of execution. Even in connexion with these regulations, I am assured, by the Minister for Works and Railways  (Mr. Hill)  that, on the advice or request of the State authorities, the very widest application is given. That this control has resulted in permanent benefit to the country is evidenced by the fact that from the two grants already approved, some 2,000 miles of durable roads have been constructed or are in course of completion. These roads will tend to alleviate the conditions of outback settlers, many of whom previously were practically isolated for months from their nearest railway station. It can safely be contended that had it not been for the Commonwealth grant, many of these roads, which are an absolute necessity, would not have been constructed for years to come, owing to lack of funds. In fact, various States have so advised the Minister for Works and Railways. Reverting to the passage from  Senator J.  B. Hayes's speech, relative to the work of the Country Roads Board in Victoria, the following extract from that body's annual report for 1924-5 is of special interest : - 
This board, as the constructing authority for this State, desires to record its appreciation of the great value this Federal assistance has been in the provision of road facilities in portions of the State which for many years have remained unproductive and undeveloped, and also' to record its appreciation of the courtesy and sympathy with which the Federal Director of Works has received and considered the proposals submitted to him by the board on behalf of this State.' 
In the course of  Senator J.  B. Hayes's remarks, he mentioned that he had recently inspected work being carried out on the Launceston-Scottsdale road. This work consists of what is known as the Sideling deviation, and was one of the works recommended by the Tasmanian Government. As in the case of all other roads being constructed in Tasmania as a result of the Federal grant, this work is being executed in accordance with the State's own plans and specifications, and under its own direction. In submitting this proposal, the State Works Department advised as follows : - 
The portion of this road, for which deviations are necessary, is 12$ miles. Some 5 miles was already metalled, and the remainder was  roughly  metalled many years ago, but is very narrow and has steep grades. The road serves some 80 square miles of country, a large area of which is first-class land, and the remainder good  second-class  land. The total estimated cost of completing the whole work Will be about £13,500. The present section, which is now under construction, is 91 chains long, and will, it is estimated, cost £2,337. The  balance  remaining to be completed is miles, estimated to cost £11,000. 
Should the request that the minimum expenditure on each road be reduced to £500' be acceded to, and applied to this road, ft will be seen that it would take 22 years to complete the work. 
I have no doubt that improvements could be made with regard to the conditions of the grant by meeting the .States in various ways. The speech by the honorable senator was of a constructive character, and the Government is always willing to consider helpful suggestions. As far as Tasmania is concerned, representations have been made from time to time that the conditions of the grant should be altered to meet the special needs of that State. It must be remembered that there are approved for construction in Tasmania, from the grant, 41 roads, the total estimated cost of which is many thousands of pounds. So far, the expenditure in Tasmania from the grant has been very light. During the first year that the grant was in operation, the expenditure was practically nothing, and even after two years have elapsed, and an amount of £50,000 has been voted by the Commonwealth to that State, only £10,500 had been spent to the end of June last. 
The department assures me that £50,000 has- been allocated to Tasmania,, and that there has been no delay on its part. 
Tasmanian senators cannot contend that so far the Federal grant has been responsible for interfering with the State Government's annual grant of £45,000. During the first year the grant was in operation the expenditure by the State was- practically nothing, and even after two years had elapsed and an amount of £50,000 had been voted by the Commonwealth! to Tasmania,, only £10,500 had been spent to the end of June,. 1925. This meant that the State's contribution to the roads put in hand under the Federal grant was only £10,500 in two years. However, I am advised by my colleague, the Minister for Works and Railways., who has- looked very seriously into the question, that he has received an assurance from the Minister for Works in Hobart that the Tasmanian Government intends to complete the roads already put in 'hand from the Federal grant. Every State has. made overtures to have portion of the Federal grant spent on main roads already constructed. 
Yes. The intention of the Commonwealth Government in affording this assistance was to give facilities to people outback to develop their properties in the way we would like to see them developed. Its main interest waa the construction of developmental roads to assist in developing new country and the natural resources of Australia. Up to the present the amount of the grant has foi- the two years totalled only £1,000,000. To have divided that small amount and spent part of it in constructing and repairing existing roads would not have been satisfactory, as the amount when so divided would have been too small for either purpose. The road problem is at present exercising the minds of central governments in many countries. The Commonwealth Government has given it its earnest consideration for some months past,  and is at present formulating the policy which it proposes to- adopt in the future in regard to contributing towards the cost of the reconstruction and reconditioning of existing roads. When the policy is put forward at an early date I trust  Senator J.  B. Hayes will be satisfied with it. In the meantime, I ask him not to push his motion, because- the greater portion of the difficulties to which he has drawn attention will be met by the Minister for Works, and Railways in his. forthcoming allocation of the roads grant. I understand that most of the States have shown their appreciation of the way in which the Commonwealth officers have met them in regard to the present method of allocation, but the- Minister assures me that the question of reconditioning and reconstructing, existing roads will be fully considered in allocating the grant for the forthcoming year. 
I shall advise the Minister to adopt that course. The Government is anxious to meet the wishes of the States in this matter so that the money provided by the Commonwealth will be spent to the best advantage. 
 If the motion before the Senate is carried, and put into effect, it will necessitate an amendment of the Main Roads Development Act, under which about £1,000,000 has been appropriated for expenditure by the States on the development of main, roads. Of this amount, £650,000 had been spent to the end of the last financial year, leaving a balance of £350,000. To this balance the £750,000 to he voted this year has to be added, leaving a total amount of £1,100,000 for expenditure during the current year. It was clearly understood when the Main Roads Development Bill was agreed to that the money authorized by it to be expended would be spent exclusively  in  constructing new roads. It was never intended! that any portion of it should be used to improve existing roads. However, in giving effect to the provisions of the aci, it has been discovered that it would be a great convenience in some portions of the Commonwealth if the local authorities' were given a freer hand in the expenditure of the money. I think that it would be a wise step to amend the act to permit of this being done. It looks all right on paper to suggest that the money should be spent entirely on new roads in the country where no roads exist, but I should imagine that the people in the States concerned are the best judges of where it should be spent. In New South Wales, this work is being done by a Main Roads Board, and I understand1 that there are similar constructing authorities in the other States. While I support the proposal to amend the act in order that the local authorities may have a freer hand in the expenditure of the money granted" by the Commonwealth, it never occurred to me that the work of making streets or roads was a function of the Federal Parliament. I am sure it was never contemplated by the framers of the Federal Constitution that the Commonwealth Parliament' should have, anything whatever to do with. . the work of making roads. ' Road construction is a State function. .It is a circumlocutory method for the Commonwealth to collect money by taxing picture' shows, and. raising revenue through Customs and excise duties, a land tax, and an income tax, and hand it over to localgoverning bodies to be spent on making roads. A very much better scheme has been evolved in New South Wales. In Sydney, it has been decided, in strict accord with the principles laid down by Henry George in his Canons  of Taxation,  to impose a fiat rate, without, gradations or exemptions, of id. in the £1 on the unimproved value of land. In the suburban and country municipalities and shires the rate is fd. in the £1. That is the main source of revenue of the Main Roads Board of New South Wales; but I dare say the authorities are very pleased to get finanial assistance from the Federal Government in order that they may not have the painful necessity of asking the people who own the land, the value of which is increased by the making of roads, to pay more taxation. To make the 
Federal Parliament; a collecting authority, sud allow the local authorities to spend the money so collected, is a rather unusual way in which to conduct business. The decision of Parliament is embodied in an act which provides that the money collected shall be handed oyer to somebody else to spend in certain specified directions. Some of the beneficiaries, notably . those in Tasmania, believe that it could be more judiciously expended on a different basis, and, while I am entirely opposed to the whole scheme, seeing that: this Parliament has agreed to collect the money, and that other authorities should spend it. all I can do at the present juncture is to support the motion. 

 Senator C. W. GRANT  (Tasmania) [8.331.  -  I also wish to support the motion moved by  Senator J.  B. Hayes, particularly owing to the conditions which exist in Tasmania, and the restrictions imposed which make it practically impossible for the money to be spent in the way we desire. As Tasmania is one of the oldest settled portions of the Commonwealth, most of its main roads have already been constructed, and our principal work is that of reconditioning. I was glad to hear the Minister  (Senator Wilson)  say that the Government is considering the question of allowing this grant to be used for reconstruction and reconditioning purposes, and if provision to that effect is made in an amending bill, under which further money is to be granted, the difficulties mentioned by  Senator Hayes  will be largely overcome. Under the existing arrangement, Tasmania has been unable to claim all the money to which she is entitled, but if the money granted could be used for reconditioning and reconstructing, we could obtain the full benefit of the grant. As some of the money thus voted has been expended on widening main roads which did not require widening, but needed reconditioning, money has been wasted. In other .instances, main roads' construction has not been undertaken because the Tasmanian Government did not consider that it was justified in spending large sums on roads which would serve only one or two settlers. The State authorities are prepared to construct roads sufficient to meet the requirements of those using them, but the revenue is not sufficient to justify construction on a more permanent basis. 
The minimum amount to be expended on one road is £1,000- £500 of which is contributed by the State and £500 by the Commonwealth. That is too high. The Government should consider the advisableness of reducing the minimum, and thus enable the vote to be expended to the best advantage. It is not always a satisfactory proposition from the States' point of view to expend as much as £500 on one road. In view of the Minister's assurance that the Government is giving careful consideration to the suggestions made, I trust  Senator J.  B. Hayes will withdraw the motion. 
. -I am gratified to learn from the Minister  (Senator Wilson)  that representations repeatedly made to the Minister for Works and Railways  (Mr. Hill)  are being considered, and. I hope they will eventually have the desired effect. The Tasmanian people desire the grants made for the construction of roads to be used to the best possible advantage; they do not desire public money to be wasted. The conditions in Tasmania differ considerably from those in other States, and if the provisions of the act and the regulations framed under it are rigidly adhered to, the money may not be spent to the best advantage. Believing that our requests are likely to be carefully considered, I think  Senator J.  B. Hayes should accept the assurance of the Minister, and withdraw his motion. If it is found that our requirements have not, been fully met, further action can be taken. 
 As one who has had considerable experience in municipal work I can fully appreciate the difficulties experienced by the authorities in Tasmania. I have, however, greater knowledge of municipal work in the mining centres, particularly that undertaken at Boulder City and Kalgoorlie. Those centres are about 3 miles apart, and the main road connecting them is under the control of a roads board. As road construction and maintenance is an important problem, particularly on the gold-fields and the south-west portion of Western Australia, the State authorities should have the opportunity to spend the Federal grant to the best advantage. Provision should be made in the direction of allowing the State authorities to spend a portion of the grant on reconstruction and reconditioning, as has been suggested, and it is gratifying to know that there is a prospect of some such concession being granted. I support the motion. 
I listened with interest to  Senator J.  B. Hayes, who, in submitting the motion, justified an amendment of the Main Roads Development Act 1925 in the direction of allowing the whole of the money voted by Parliament to be spent under the direction of the State authorities. The Minister  (Senator Wilson)  merely stated that the matter would be considered by the Department of  Works and  Railways. 
I do not doubt the sincerity of the assurance of the Minister  (Senator Wilson),  or of the Minister for Works and Railways  (Mr. Hill),  but I do not think the main point of the motion was mentioned. It reads - 
That in the opinion of the Senate all grants for road works should be handed over to the State authorities for expenditure .... 
The Minister did not express any opinion on this vital aspect of the motion. 
I submit that when money is provided by the Commonwealth Government for- the benefit of the States they ought to be allowed to spend it as they think best. Western Australia is grappling with a serious problem in the development of the group settlements in the south-western portion of the State. The State officers had a difference of opinion with the officers of the Works and Railways Department as to whether the roads that link up these settlements are main roads. The difficulty is in defining the word "main." In speaking on this matter previously in the Senate, I suggested that the trouble might be partly overcome at any rate if the act were amended and entitled the Developmental Roads Act instead of the Main Roads Development Act. I admit that in the expenditure of Federal money Federal supervision is essential, but as the Works and Railways Department is willing to accept the ex pert advice of State officers in connexion with ordinary public works which it undertakes in the States, it ought also to be prepared to accept the expert advice of the engineers of the various States in connexion with road work. I suggest to  Senator J.  B. Hayes that he should allow the motion to go to the vote. We ought to adopt it. It would then, in some degree, be an instruction to the Minister of Works and Railways. Seeing that, in the future, much greater sums of money will - or should - be spent by the Federal Government on road work in the various States, it is essential that we should provide that it shall be expended as economically and as effectively as possible. 
 I thank the Senate for the sympathetic way in which it has received and discussed the motion. Naturally, I was very interested in the Minister's reply. I should like to make it quite clear that nothing was further from my thoughts than even the semblance of an idea of trying to create feeling between the Federal authorities and the Victorian Country Roads Board. I knew nothing whatever about the negotiations that had taken place, or the business arrangements that had -been made, between the Works and Railways Department and the Victorian Country Roads Board. I simply referred to the board as a capable and estimable body that was doing splendid work in Victoria, and as an illustration of what capable State officers - in my mind, more capable than many of the Federal officers - can do. I trust that the Minister will accept this explanation. He referred to the great benefit that had accrued to the people by reason of the expenditure of the Federal roads grant in the various States. I heartily agree with his remarks in that connexion. I have said previously that the Government could not have designed a better method of distributing surplus funds. Road work is most important in all the States. I still think, however, that a better method of allocation, but not necessarily of expenditure, could be adopted. In moving the motion, I referred to a road- in my own district which was being splendidly constructed by a good gang of men under a capable overseer, but I pointed out that the money could have been spent more advantageously in other places in the district. 1 am not in the confidence of the authorities in this instance, but 1 believe that the conditions attached to the grant were responsible for it being spent in that place. I was more than a little surprised and sorry to hear the comments made !by the Minister on my suggestion that the minimum expenditure on a given work should be reduced from ?1;0Q0 to ?500. He said that his officers had advised him that if only  ?900  could be spent on a given job it would take '22 years to construct a road that cost ?11,000. A child with the most elementary knowledge of multiplication could have reckoned that. It is apparent that the officers quite misunderstood my point. I did not suggest that the maximum expenditure should be ?500, but that the grant should be made under such conditions as would enable works which were estimated to cost less than ?1,000 to be undertaken. The departmental officers might have given me credit for better sense than to make such a proposal as they have discussed. I quite understand that the object of the Government in fixing a minimum of ?1,000 is to prevent the money being frittered away in dribs and drabs'; but in a State like Tasmania, where 7,000 or 8,000 miles of metal roads, containing many -dangerous bends and bad corners, have been constructed at a cheap irate, the expenditure of a mud less sum thaw even ?600 would be most use f ml, and fulfil the objects of the "Government. At a recent deputation to a State Minister in Tasmania reference was made to the Huon-road , which lias a very dangerous bend in it. 
 Two people were killed there not long ago. 
Motion, by leave, withdrawn, and order of  the  day discharged. 
I am in agreement with the object of my honorable colleague in seeking to amend the principal act. I understand that, under it, the exemption,  in  the case of estates left to widows, is ?1,000, and the probate duty payable is two-thirds the amount paid by other beneficiaries. If the bill foe agreed te, the exemption will be raised to ?5,000. If the mother of a family dies, the father., as die breadwinner, is able to continue his ordinary avocation; but if the father dies, the widow and her family are frequently in straitened circumstances. The 
Minister  (Senator Pearce),  in opposing the measure, said that, ifit became law, therevenue would be seriously depleted. If the  exemptionwere  raised to £5,000, irrespective of the value of the estate, possibly the revenue would suffer appreciably,  but  since the purpose of the bill is to limit the exemption to estates of  the  value of £5,000, there is much to commend it. Estates above that value will continue to be taxed in the ordinary way under the principal act. The bill will certainly benefit persons who should have a strong claim upon our sympathy, and it will not seriously deplete the revenue. For these reasons, and for others which I could mention, I support this bill. 
 In opposing the bill, the Minister (SenatorPearce) stressed the fact that, if agreed to, about 70 per cent. of taxable estates would be affected. But he was unable then to tell us, and I have been unable since to ascertain, exactly to what extent the revenue would suffer. To make quite certain that  it will  not seriously interfere with the finances, I propose if the second reading be carried, and the bill goes into committee, to move for the addition of the following proviso :  - " The provisions of this bill shall not apply to any estate, the value of which exceeds £5,000. The total number of estates entered for probate in1920-21 was 5,266,  and  in 1921-3 5,311. In the latter year, the total  loss  of revenus would not have exceeded £82,774, assuming that all the estates under £5,000 had been left to widows. We know, of course, that a large proportion of the estates are not left to widows, and therefore therevenue should not suffer to the extent ofmore than about £50,000. The Income Tax Commissionerdoes not tabulate his information in such a way as to enable him to say how manywidows would be affected by the bill, or the extent  to  which the revenue would suffer. It is within the knowledge of honorable senators that,  in  the ease of small estates left to widows, considerable difficulty is frequently met with in finding the necessary cash to meet the legal charges. Sometimes first  and  second mortgages have to he given, and an estate becomes so involved that a widow is fortunate if it ever emerges from the hands of legal advisers. Already there is an exemption of £1,000, and, in the case of estates left to widows, the probate duty is two-thirds of the amount paid by other beneficiaries. The bill is in consonance with the general trend of public opinion. Insome of the State Parliaments, and also in this Parliament, representations have been made for the payment of pensions to widows. In view of the fact that the revenuewill notbe seriously affected, and because the finances are in a flourishing condition, I hope that honorable senators will support the second reading. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice - 
What is the amount of bounties or bonuses granted by the Government to each industry in the Commonwealth for the purpose of its encouragement since the establishment of federation? 
What was the total amount granted by the Government to all industries for the same purpose and for the same period? 
The information is being obtained. 
I move - 
That the Standing Orders Committee be requested to submit for the consideration of the Senate additional standing orders for the limitation of debate on any bill declared' by the 
Senate 'to be an urgent bill, in respect of initial stages, second reading, committee stage, any particular clause or clauses, any .part or parts  of  the bill, and remaining stages, and such consequential standing orders or amendments of the present Standing Orders as the committee may think necessary to give effect to those proposals. 
I thought that honorable senators opposite would regard a motion to submit a matter to the Standing Orders Committee as formal, seeing that both sides of the Senate are represented on that committee, and that any debate on the subject ought really to take place when the recommendation conies forward for adoption. I am not in a position to say that the committee will bring forward a recommendation that will prove satisfactory to either side of the Senate. However, as honorable senators opposite have not chosen to regard this motion as formal, I may explain that -what I have in mind is the desirability of the Senate adopting a standing order similar to Standing Order 262a of the House of Representatives. 
It is true that that standing order is generally and colloquially known as the "guillotine." Our Standing Orders 281. 431, and 433, under which, in the Senate or in committee, the motion " That the Senate - or the committee - do now divide" may be moved, arc most unsatisfactory. The application of the closure in this way is a most unfair method of limiting debates. We had an example quite recently of the way in which it limits debate on one side of the Senate only. "When one side is anxious to put a bill through and another side is anxious to oppose it, the latter proceeds to put up what is generally known as a " stone wall." It talks practically all the time, while the other side, which is in favour of the bill, is practically gagged and prevented from expressing any opinion on the measure. Therefore the operation of these standing orders is unfair, because in practice it means that the minority is able to gag the majority. On the other hand, if the " guillotine " were in operation, both sides of the Senate would have an opportunity to state their opinions, and the side which wasted time by putting up what is called a "stone wall" would lose the opportunity to state its views on the proposal under consideration. Therefore, its waste of time would recoil on itself. 
No. As a time would be fixed for a particular stage of the bill, both sides would have the opportunity to speak. The  President  calls- on speakers from either side alternatively. If an honorable senator had an hour in which to speak, and deliberately wasted his time, it would recoil on his own head, whereas an honorable senator on the other side supporting the proposal would devote his hour to giving reasons why the measure should pass. The side that wasted its time would penalize itself, and' not the side supporting the bill. This provides an eminently fair method of debating a measure. I take it that the Standing Orders Committee will recognize that, as there are only 36 honorable senators, a greater time could be allowed for the various stages of a bill than might be allowed in a House containing 72 members. But all these matters will, no doubt, be fully considered by the Standing Orders Committee, and if the committee brings up a report in favour of the adoption of the proposed new standing orders, the Senate can debate the merits or demerits of its recommendation. 
-10].- Were I blest with that chess players' intellect which enables one to look ahead to the next move, I should support  Senator Pearce  in this matter. For some years we have enjoyed a certain amount of freedom in Opposition, but. now  Senator Pearce  comes along with a proposal to prevent himself from enjoying the same amount of freedom when he in turn is in Opposition. -If I were so minded that I would seek to prevent the honorable senator from having, when in Opposition, the freedom that I have enjoyed, I would say, "Thanks. You are proposing to put a weapon into the hands of the next Go'vernment that will enable it to stifle debate on your, part." Is the Senate suffering from too much debate or discussion, or is there too much opposition to measures? Has the reputation of the Senate suffered in the estimation of the public outside? I am afraid that, instead of being a place where men meet to parley,  the Senate is generally unemployed waiting for business to be done in another place. It is merely putting up an appearance of being par.t of the Parliament of the country. On Monday last,  Senator Pearce  was in the unenviable position of having to rise time after time to move on every clause of the Peace Officers Bill " That the committee do now divide." He did it even before there was time for any discussion on a clause. In regard to that bill,  Senator Pearce  was evidently following instructions received from the British Government, because, according to this morning's newspapers, questions are being asked as to the need for the action of the British Government in creating a new police force. The explanation given is that the London Police Force is not sufficient to do certain work, and that another force has been called into existence for that purpose. Taking the discussion on the Peace Officers Bill as an example of the obstruction that  Senator Pearce  has in mind, I point out that, as a matter of fact, on Saturday I did not exhaust the time allotted to me under the Standing Orders, and, as I did not feel my usual self, I did not remain in the chamber to listen to the very eloquent addresses of honorable senators supporting the Government. The debate on Saturday was reasonably fair, and did not take up more than the usual time.  Senator Pearce  questions that statement, but  Hansard  will show the time occupied by honorable- senators on both sides. The debate was conducted by both sides in a way that was a credit to a chamber which was brought into existence ito. discuss legislation. Hitherto the parliamentary practice has been to permit adequate debate on every clause of a bill in committee, but when we reached that stage in the discussion of the Peace Officers Bill,  Senator Pearce  took steps te prevent debate. As soon as clause 1 was submitted he moved - " That the committee do now divide." Similarly on clause 2, a very important provision of the bill, there was no debate. 
I am merely stating what took place in committee. If, in the light of what happened,  Senator Pearce  gained the impression that we were "stone-walling" the bill, then all that 
I can say is that I do not envy him his state of mind. After what occurred on Saturday night, I resolved, without consultation with my colleagues, that when we met on Monday I would show the Minister that even if, according to parliamentary practice, the Minister took precedence over other honorable senators - I am not questioning the right of the  Chairman  to hear a Minister first, but I do question the wisdom of the Government in taking advantage of this privilege in such a way as to discredit both the Ministry and the  Chairman  of Committees - my rights and the rights of other honorable senators in Opposition would not be filched from us without challenge. To achieve my purpose, while the bells were ringing I 'hurriedly dictated to my typist a number of new clauses which I proposed to move as amendments in committee. 
Unquestionably they were prepared without due consideration, but they were for a purpose. 
They were intended to demonstrate to the Government that, as long as I am in- the position which I occupy in this chamber, my rights are not to be filched from me. The Minister and his supporters may think that the guillotine will achieve their ends, but they will find that established parliamentary procedure will still permit minorities to be heard in this chamber. 
But let us see what could happen. If we had been in office, and had wished to "guillotine" the Peace Officers Bill through, we could easily have arranged for the guillotine to fall at, 3ay, 11.30 on Saturday morning last, and by hinting to the  Chairman  of Committees that for once in his life he must be blind in one eye, and not give members of the Opposition the call, we could have prevented the expression of the Opposition's view. 
Since a one-time Labour member presides over the Senate and a former Labour member is  Chairman  of Committees, I can quite understand  Senator Crawford  taking the view that a present-day Labour  chairman  might fall in with such a suggestion. As a matter of fact, however, he would not do anything of the kind. I am merely pointing to the possibilities even under the suggested new standing order, in order to show how unwise is the course proposed. For the last three years we, on this side, have had all the freedom which Parliament, in its wisdom, has preserved to us. Speaking generally, there has been fairly full discussion of the various measures that have come before the Senate.  Senator Pearce  now tells us that we must fall into line with another place. 
The Minister has indicated that we should have a new standing order to limit debate; and I am endeavouring to show that the Minister is proposing to forge chains that will cut most deeply into his own flesh when he and his friends are in Opposition after the next election. I remind the Minister that he may become responsible for the making of new standing orders, but he cannot ensure for himself and his colleagues permanent occupancy of the Ministerial benches. The people will have something to say about that. I challenge any honorable senator to point to an occasion when there was undue discussion on the Peace Officers Bill. It passed the report and third-reading stages in eight hours. Will any honorable senator declare that that was unusual? 
For that  Senator Pearce  and his supporters must accept the-responsibility. Had the Minister not started to " gag " the measure through committee, I should not have taken part in the debate at the committee stage. 
I have no doubt that the Minister will think I am wasting time now in speaking to this motion. I know that he is very anxious that we should discuss other measures that are to come before the Senate today, and I also wish to deal with them. I do not agree with the Minister that the debate on the Peace Officers Bill was all an one side; 
To the whole of the debate. I find from the records that, on Saturday, with reasonable regularity, speakers were called from both sides of the chamber, and that, with, perhaps, the exception of  Senator Barnes,  no honorable senator on this side occupied the full time allowed to him under the Standing Orders. 
I do not think so. At all events, I was not called to order. 
I am aware that the Minister is always anxiously looking at the clock when I am addressing the Senate. Now he wishes to employ a new standing order to prevent me from being heard. On Saturday, without being aware of it, I spoke for 58 minutes. I admit I was running pretty close to the schedule, but I had said all I wished to say, and when we reached the committee stage I did not occupy my full quarter of an hour upon clause 1. I spoke for only about three minutes. Therefore, when the Minister, late on Saturday night, started to " gag" the measure through committee, I determined to employ obstructive tactics, because it is just as offensive to me to find a Minister stifling debate as it may be for the Minister to find a measure being delayed in its passage. 
If ever I reach the position which you,  Mr. President,  occupy, I shall endeavour, in the conduct of the business of this chamber, to ensure to honorable senators privileges enjoyed in the House of Lords, and allow them to discuss what they like, when they like, and as long as they like, without interference from the Chair. Had I desired to waste time, either on Saturday or Monday, I could have occupied at least three hours on a formal motion for the adjournment of the Senate. I did not wish to do that.  Senator Pearce  now has in mind some new-fangled method to stifle debate. The reputation which he acquired during the committee stages of the Peace Officers Bill by moving " That the committee do now divide " or " That the question be now put" is too much for such a modest statesman. He does not wish to be placed in the same position again. A Tariff Bill will be before us in the course of a few weeks. Possibly the Minister fears that  Senator Grant  and I, being of the same fiscal faith, may prove troublesome, and so he wishes to be prepared to stifle discussion by those of us who are still sufficiently loyal to Britain to wish to trade with her. 
I do not think there is much difference between us, except, perhaps, that  Senator Grant  was expounding the wisdom of his political faith when I was a boy, and I must give him credit for not having changed his views. This may be one reason why, time after time, he has received the endorsement of the people in New South Wales, and why I, reflecting his intelligence, also have their commendation. I can assure those four or five honorable senators opposite who may not be called upon shortly to face the angry electors that when we are returned to power after the next elections we shall be tolerant, and allow full discussion of measures in this Senate, which is designed by the Constitution to safeguard the interests of the States. Some men come into this Parliament, remain hero for many years, and pass out of it without realizing that the function of Parliament is to discuss legislative measures, and that the business of government is to govern. Honorable senators opposite have entrusted the management of affairs in this chamber to  Senator Pearce, Senator Crawford,  and  Senator "Wilson  because, presumably, they are the most competent men in their ranks for that special purpose. If those who are selected for this business of governing fail in the proper discharge of their duties, legislative measures passed by this Parliament go for nought. Let us consider what happened in connexion with the deportation law. Its machinery was defective, so it became necessary to pass the Peace Officers Bill, but before the latter measure had received parliamentary approval the work which it was intended to do had been carried out by officials other than peace officers. Summonses had been served upon certain people. Was there any occasion to hurry ? I see in the press this morning that the New South Wales Government will resist by law any attempt to deport citizens of that State. It requires no prophet to forecast that if it takes up that attitude in earnest there will be a legal tussle for many months before the Commonwealth Government accomplishes its purpose. And yet, forsooth, the Minister practically threatens to deprive, not one member, but the whole Senate, of the right of free discussion. This is a matter that I may take the opportunity of referring to when  the Standing Orders Committee meets. My point is that if the majority on one side determines that a debate shall end at a certain time, there should be a time limit placed on honorable senators on both sides of the chamber. If we had the guillotine in operation, and  Senator Lynch  and I had an opportunity of speaking on a particular measure, a serious inroad would be made upon the time permitted for its debate. What would happen then to the rights of other honorable senators? I realize that the Minister desires that the Senate shall appear to be at work, since the Supply Bill, which we all expected, has not come along. 
The Minister has given us some work to do to-day, and we are now discussing the question of the further curtailment of the freedom of members of this House. But it cannot be claimed that that freedom has been abused in this chamber. If it ia felt that the existing standing orders place the right of debate into the hands of one side mare than another, let us alter them. But the Minister's proposal might result in the silencing of an honorable senator whose opinion would be of the utmost value. . Some types of representatives, like myself, perhaps, manage to force themselves to the front, but the Government's proposal might prevent an honorable senator of the reserved type from speaking, or it might convert him into a forceful man, always determined to be heard, whether he had anything useful to say or not. After the next election, I may be in a position to apply the guillotine. 
I have other ambitions. I am merely putting this argument forward by way of suggestion. 
I am not certain of anything, but I think one may be guided by a wide experience.  Senator Greene,  no doubt, realizes how important it is when one wants a thing to let the public know it. It would be a great mistake to imagine that both  Senator Greene  and myself will be successful at the coming elections. Some honorable senators seem to think that political life is food and drink to me, but if proposals such as that now before the Senate are expected to be supported by reasonable men, I am afraid that I shall lose much of my enthusiasm for the privilege of holding the high office of a senator. I know that the pearls of wisdom that I am offering honorable senators opposite are being wasted, but I point out that the effect of their action will be to gag themselves in the next Parliament. 
Perhaps I would; but the proposal is so new that it shocks one's sense of decency. The Standing Orders Committee is like all other committees appointed under the system of party government; the majority predominates, and no regard is had for the fitness of the members for the positrons to which they are appointed. I am no believer in numbers alone constituting the guiding principle in the appointment of these committees. One would imagine that with a following such as I have in this chamber, I would have one supporter on the panel of  Deputy  Chairmen of Committees, but party government robs me of that right. When my beloved colleague, the late  Senator McDougall,  was with me, I had one, but since his death I have had none. On the Standing Orders Committee the Opposition is represented by Senators Findley and O'Loghlin and myself. 
Not on a committee of this kind. It seldom has any business to transact. Had I permitted this motion to pass as formal, I could have registered an attendance at a meeting of the committee. The Standing Orders, generally speaking, meet the heeds of the Senate; but the curtailment of debate, as now proposed, would be the greatest mistake a deliberative assembly could make. A majority with unlimited power should be most anxious to check a Ministry that hurries to filch the right of full debate from representatives of the people. When any problem is under discussion in the Senate, full debate is bound to lead to a better solution than limited discussion would. Just as when the evil spirit entered the herd of swine, they went headlong down to the sea, so this Government will be swept out of existence if it robs the representatives of the people of the right of free discussion. The Australian people are noted for their love of liberty and free institutions. 
I say candidly that nothing could give me more pain than to see a party bearing the name of Labour curtailing debate in Parliament. If the party opposite passes vicious rules, I promise honorable senators that they will have to smart under them when my turn comes to lead a majority in this chamber. I have no hesitation in saying that the action taken in the New South Wales Parliament has my disapproval. If the curtailment of debate is wrong here, it is equally wrong there. In the Parliament of New South Wales I have witnessed scenes so exciting that perhaps for hours members were almost beside themselves in their anger on account of attempts to stifle debate. From October last until June of this year Parliament was in recess, but if we had been sitting  during that period I could have expressed every thought my brain could conceive. In discussing this motion I do not wish to exhaust the time allowed me under the Standing Orders, but having seriously and calmly explained my views I may conclude by saying that at least three of the six honorable senators now opposite are making a rod for their own backs. If I occupy the position of  President  of this Chamber, or that of Leader of the Government, it will be my duty to see that effect is given to whatever standing orders are in force. I must, however, repeat that honorable senators opposite should remember that they have a solemn duty to perform, and should not assist in depriving  "the  representatives of the people of the rights which they have always enjoyed. 
 In supporting the motion submitted by the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  it is not my intention to discuss the merits or demerits of any conclusions at which the Standing Orders Committee may arrive. It is a matter of regret to me that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Gardiner)  should have prejudged the case,  and  endeavoured to prevent the committee from inquiring into its merits. The honorable senator has wasted a good deal of time because the opinions he has expressed to-day will be repeated by him before the Standing Orders Committee, and also when the motion for the adoption of the report of the Standing Orders Committee is before the Senate, if the report is as he presumes it will be. The honorable senator has, however, taken the course which will ensure the report of the Standing Orders Committee being of the nature he fears. If the honorable senator had decided to treat the motion as formal he could then have gone to the committee and left the members of that body with a more or less open mind. The honorable senator introduced the party element at the outset. Personally, I suppose I am not what may be regarded as a good party man. 
I differ from the honorable senator. 
.1 hope the Minister thinks so. 
I believe there are times when I have been responsible for keeping the right honorable gentleman guessing. I do not think anything can be gained by discussing the merits or demerits of this motion. The committee is to meet, and I trust that  Senator Gardiner  will not pursue the course he said he often does, and be absent, because I feel sure that when not speaking in public his advice is of great assistance; but when speaking in public he furnishes a very interesting example of the difference between sane reasoning and rhodomontade.  His  public utterances are absolutely devoid of the sense of proportion. He has expressed opinions on this simple motion which might well have been uttered on ,an occasion when we were deciding whether we should or should not go to war. The honorable senator reminds me of a person using a 16-in. gun to shoot sparrows. For these reasons I regret this discussion should have arisen, and that the question should have been prejudged before it goes to the committee. Nevertheless I welcome the motion, and I think it will be the duty of the Standing Orders Committee to recommend some means of ensuring that debate will be more effective, reasonable, and to the point - that is the point - than it is at present. 
-55]. - It is the duty of honorable senators to seriously discuss matters of moment to the Commonwealth and the people of the Commonwealth. The motion now before the Senate should be seriously debated by honorable senators on both sides of the chamber. Conditions change very rapidly nowadays, and if there be any truth in the rumour I heard this morning, this Government is undecided as to whether the next general election shall be held at the end of November or during the first week of December. If there is any truth in the rumour, we should, be acting against our own interests and the people whom, we represent if we did not advance reasons why this question should not be referred to the Standing Orders Committee. The Federal Parliament was established in 1901, and for nearly a quarter of a  century this chamber, as one branch of the Federal Legislature, has conducted its business under certain standing orders. Up to the present there has been no serious protest from any member of the chamber concerning the Standing Orders under which we conduct our business. Passing reference has been made to what occurred a day or two ago. "What happened? A few hours were devoted to a discussion in which members of the Opposition, as well as the supporters of the Government, took an active part. There was nothing from a governmental point of view to prevent the speedy passage of the bill; the Standing Orders under which we are already working gave the Minister in charge of the measure the fullest opportunity to curb discussion. The Minister availed himself of the opportunity, and, as a matter of fact, was so anxious to push the bill through that he did not give honorable senators on this side an opportunity of seconding the motion submitted. It is true that when the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Gardiner)  rose at the report stage and submitted a motion that the bill be recommitted for a certain purpose, the Minister missed an opportunity in not moving, "That the Senate do now divide." Apparently he was asleep, as  Senator J.  Grant was allowed to second  Senator Gardiner's  motion. If the Minister had been alert, or anxious to save time, he could have prevented it. Later on he did what he had previously neglected to do, as, when the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham),  in addressing himself to the third reading of the bill, moved a specific motion, the Minister immediately moved, " That the Senate do now divide." There should, therefore, be no reason to provide additional standing orders to facilitate the transaction of business. The proposed power is too drastic. The Government, of course, cannot get the power it now requires until the Senate agrees .to the motion submitted by the Minister this morning, and later adopts the report of the Standing Orders Committee. Does any one really believe that a committee, consisting of six supporters of the Government and three members of the Opposition, will consider the question from other than a party point of view? When this 
Government appoints committees, it invariably arranges that the majority in each case shall consist of members of its own party. The members of the Standing Orders Committee are: The  President,  the  Chairman  of Committees,  Senator Duncan,  the Government Whip;  Senator Findley, Senator Foll,  a Government supporter;  Senator Gardiner,  the Leader of the Opposition;  Senator H.  Hays, a Government supporter;  Senator Kingsmill,  an ardent Government supporter; and  Senator O'Loghlin.  Three of those are members of the Opposition and six are supporters of the Government. If the motion is agreed to that committee will undoubtedly make a recommendation in accordance with the wishes of the Government. There is no justification for the adoption of such a standing order. Parliament has been sitting this year since the 10th of June, but the Senate has not had its time wholly occupied by any means. We had a lengthy discussion on the Immigration Bill, and an alltooshort discussion on the Peace Officers Bill ; but, apart from those measures, there has been very little debate on the proposals of the Government. The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Gardiner)  has pointed out that if a limit is fixed for the discussion of a bill the Government supporters may monopolize practically all the time available, and the members of the Opposition may be debarred from speaking. I do not think any sensible Government would be anxious to create that situation; but I should not be at all surprised if this Government attempted to do so. It succeeded to some extent in silencing us the other day, for it prevented us from submitting quite a number of amendments that we desired to move to the Peace Officers Bill. We were told then that the Government wanted the bill to be passed as quickly as possible in order that the officers who were to be appointed pursuant to its provisions might servo summonses on certain leaders of an industrial organization in New South Wales who were supposed to be disobeying the law. But what happened ? Before the bill was passed the summonses were served by Customs officers. The statement of the Government that it was urgently necessary to place the measure on the statute-book was so much camouflage. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. 
Givens). - The honorable senator is not in order in discussing at length the Peace Officers Bill. It has been dealt with and is not now before us. I ask the honorable senator to confine his remarks to the motion. 
I realize,  Mr. President,  that I am not in order in discussing the Peace Officers Bill at any great length. My object was merely to make a passing reference to it to show that even cases which the Government considers to be urgent are at times not so. The Standing Orders already provide for passing legislation in an expeditious manner, and I consider that the Government should not have any greater power than it now has. For that reason,' I ask honorable senators to reject the motion. 
Such a motion should not be permitted to go to- the vote without a protest. I object to it as a member of the Opposition, although J. believe that within a short time my party will occupy the Ministerial bench. 
We have ample reason for optimism. Any one who knows anything about party warfare, and is able to sense a political atmosphere, must recognize that the stocks of the National party are low, and are falling every day, whereas the stocks of the Labour party are high, and are rising. 
Undoubtedly, the Government of to-day is likely to be the Opposition of to-morrow. 
The honorable senator is not in order in discussing that matter. 
It would be a great mistake for me to permit this motion to be agreed to without entering my emphatic protest against it. If there was one thing that I appreciated more than another when I was first elected to this Senate, it was that the Standing Orders provided almost unlimited opportunities for me to address myself to questions of public importance. 
Our Standing Orders have been amended in only one important respect for a considerable number of years. Some honorable senators may recollect that on one occasion, years ago, I addressed the Senate for three and a half hours on the subject of land values taxation. It was in consequence of that effort of mine that the Standing Orders were amended and a time limit of ene hour placed upon honorable senators, with provision for an extension of time for an extra 30 minutes with the approval of the Senate. It has frequently been found necessary to grant honorable senators an extension of time. It is impossible adequately to discuss any important subject that comes before us in one hour, or even in one hour and a half. It cannot be done. The Senate suffers considerably in consequence of the manner in which opportunities for debate are limited. It is to my mind an unwritten law, and one which honorable senators ought to respect that they ought at all times to be ready to resent to the utmost of their ability any infringement of the rights handed down to them , particularly the right to discuss to almost any length any question submitted to them. The Senate ought not to have this right filched from it. There are only 36 senators, and we ought to have ample time at our disposal to discuss questions at almost any ordinary length. We have 450 standing orders at present, and in my opinion they are all needed. It is a most difficult matter for a number of men to get together to devise rules that will keep them in order, and sometimes it requires a very firm presiding officer to enforce them. Our Standing Orders are not the. haphazard work of a scratch subcommittee. They have been carefully compiled and built up year after year, and while I do not regard them as one might regard the laws of the M'edes and Persians, before I would agree to any alteration of them, I would need to be satisfied that there was ample justification for it. The Minister, in proposing to refer this matter to a committee where the Ministerial party has a two to one majority, has not advanced sufficient reasons for the adoption of a standing order which may have the. effect of seriously curtailing the right of the Opposition to discuss matters. On how many occasions in the past has the Government had any excuse to curtail the right of free speech? My memory does not carry me back to any occasion on which that right has been abused. No doubt when a government develops an idea and desires to transfer it at once to the statute-book, it is somewhat inconvenient to find that the Standing Orders permit the Opposition to discuss the proposal at some length. It was very appropriately said by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Gardiner)  that Parliament is the place not only for work but for talk. Parliament is a place where business should be delayed and carefully considered before any expression of opinion is transferred to the statute-book. In 99 cases out of 100 hasty legislation is valueless. It is generally swept away when the hysteria responsible for its enactment has passed. Otherwise it becomes a dead letter. We have now a reasonable opportunity to discuss any measure brought before the Senate. We can speak at length on the first reading of certain bills and on ' the second reading of all bills. We have ample opportunity to discuss almost every detail in committee. Even on the third reading opposition can- be offered. A measure can be debated almost at length on the adoption of the report and at other stages. In future, however, with this proposal in operation, whenever the Government desires that legislation shall find its way promptly on to the statute-book, it will fix a time limit for the discussion of it. I doubt if that will be a good thing. There are numbers of ways, through the press and otherwise, in which strong objection can be taken to any proposed legislation. But it is better to have those objections stated in Parliament. We often find that even Ministerial supporters are opposed to legislation. A proposal of this kind, but in a more aggravated form has been adopted by the Italian Government. Our local Mussolini has not gone as far as his Italian prototype, who has closed Parliament altogether. That very effective way of saving debate allows him to bring his ideas into operation without any delay. We are working towards that objective in Australia, but we have, I hope, a very long way to go before we reach it. The Commonwealth Parliament is founded upon the model of the British Parliament. In . the House of Lords, unlimited time is given to discuss any matter that comes forward. To a very large extent, the same opportunity is afforded in the House of Commons. 
I am not "stonewalling" the motion. I am giving reasons in a calm and peaceful manner for my opposition to it. I do not forget that, on a previous occasion, when I was endeavouring to re-convert the honorable senator to those principles of land taxation he previously supported, he had the Standing Orders amended; and I do not propose to permit him to have them further amended with a view to curtailing addresses from myself on that or any other subject on which- 1 choose to speak. The Standing Orders, as they stand today, fully meet our requirements. Some honorable senators may speak too long, but only on very rare occasions, and then solely to their own detriment. The Government would be well advised to let well alone. I am opposed to the proposed innovation, and I shall take another opportunity of emphasizing my objection to it if the Standing Orders Committee recommends its adoption. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a. second time. 
The bill is for the purpose of obtaining parliamentary approval to the programme of loan expenditure which was recently submitted with the budget. The total loan expenditure included in the Estimates is as follows: - 

<graphic href="111332192509042_10_0.jpg"></graphic>

Loan appropriation already exists for portion of the contemplated expenditure, and to ascertain the amount now submitted in the present bill it will be necessary to make the following deductions :  - 

<graphic href="111332192509042_10_1.jpg"></graphic>

In June last a loan bill was passed, in which £2,000,000 was provided for telegraph and telephone construction. The object of that bill was to provide for additional expenditure required last financial year, as well as to make funds available in the early part of the present financial year, so that there might be no break in the continuity of the work pending the passing of additional appropriation. The amount thus available under that act at the 30th June last was £1,850,404. A special act was passed last session ratifying the agreement between the Commonwealth and the States of New SouthWales and Queensland, to convert to a standard gauge the railway between Kyogle and South Brisbane and to re-grade and re-lay the existing railway between Grafton and Kyogle. This act also gave the Treasurer authority to raise and spend, for the purposes of the agreement, the sum of £3,500,000. Of this amount, it is estimated that £1,300,000 will be required during the current financial year. 
The following are the chief items of expenditure provided in the bill: - 

<graphic href="111332192509042_10_2.jpg"></graphic>

Authority is sought to borrow £8,300,000 to meet the expenditure detailed in the schedule. It is impossible to state under what terms and conditions the money will be raised, and it is thought wise to provide for a margin of approximately 3 per cent. to cover discounts and  flotation charges, so that the amount remaining will be sufficient to provide for the total contemplated expenditure. 
Steps are being taken in the bill to lapse loan appropriations for works remaining unexpended at 30th June, 1925. Unlike the annual appropriations from revenue, loan appropriations do not expire at the close of the financial year. The result is that there is a large accumulation of live appropriations, many of which cannot now be used. For instance, there is more than £800,000 of the appropriations for post-office buildings remaining unexpended. Owing to the altered method of now providing for these works in a composite vote, it is not convenient or, perhaps, legal, to use these appropriations. Moreover, it is considered that each year's loan programme should be dealt with as a whole by Parliament in the annual loan bill, and to enable this to be done provision will be made in each year's loan bill to lapse the unexpended appropriations at the begining of that year. This course is being followed for the first time in the present bill. As previously explained, the balance of the appropriation for telegraph and telephone construction granted by Parliament in June last is, being applied to the expenditure of the current year. The Loan Act (No. 1) of 192.5 is therefore omitted from the schedule of appropriations to be lapsed. 
I listened with great interest to the remarks made by the Minister. He practically told the Senate that he was not in a position to indicate the conditions under which the money to be raised under this bill will be borrowed. Before we embark on further loans we should know whether the money is to be borrowed within Australia or overseas, whether in London or in the United States of America. A. few weeks ago we were called- upon to deal with a very urgent measure, to authorize the raising of a loan of £15,000,000 to assist the States. In reply to my question the Minister representing the Treasurer in this chamber indicated that negotiations were in progress, not with financiers in London, but in New York. As we know, portion of that money was raised in New York. This is a proposal to authorize the Government to borrow £8,300,000. 
Surely the Minister should be able to state where and under what conditions the money will be borrowed. If I were raising a loan I should certainly require to know what it was likely to cost me. The Government has got into the very bad habit of drawing too heavily upon loan funds. We are simply perpetuating the old practice, "borrow and burst." I realize that if the natural resources of this country are to he adequately developed we must borrow money, but we should be quite sure that the works upon which it is proposed to expend it will show an adequate return. The National Debt Sinking Fund Commissioners in a return laid on the table of the Senate yesterday state that the national debt existing at the end of the financial year 1923-4 has been reduced by £5,000,000, and that if this rate of reduction is .maintained, the Commonwealth debt will be extinguished in 50 years. Are we .going the right way about this business? By borrowing further money we are adding to our national debt. Ex-Senator Pratten, now Minister for Trade and Customs, made the following statement not very long ago: - 
Various sinking funds have been established, some with good intentions, others with pious aspirations, and some, I say it with bated breath, in a spirit of hypocrisy. The mention of sinking funds tickles the ears of the electors, and provides a much-needed soporific in connexion with our financial outlook. 
I wonder what the honorable gentleman's views are to-day in regard to this indiscriminate borrowing. 
I have no doubt that, as he is now a member of the Ministry he would hardly subscribe to views which he expressed as a private member. I know of nothing that has transpired since his .accession to office to justify a change of opinion. He is now approving a policy which, a few months ago, he denounced so vigorously. I contend that as the trustees of the nation we should, endeavour as far as possible to meet our liabilities and provide for our requirements out of revenue. I notice that under this bill it is proposed to borrow money for the purpose of defence, but surely that cannot be described as a reproductive undertaking. Many years ago Parliament passed a Naval Loan Bill to borrow money for the purpose of establishing and maintaining an Australian Navy. This was done when the Deakin Government was in power. Labour members in the Senate and in another place opposed the passage of that measure on the ground that expenditure on defence was not reproductive, and they claimed that the defence of Australia should be provided for out of the revenue of the country. An election was held at which Labour was returned with a majority, and its first act was to repeal that bill and provide for the establishment of the Navy out of revenue. "While there may be some items in the schedule of the present bill on which the expenditure of loan money is justified, it cannot be proved that the money spent on defence in the past has been reproductive. Unless a halt is called, where will our persistent policy of borrowing lead us? It is certainly not assisting in the reduction of the national debt, and I cannot see any marked benefit up to the present time as far as development is concerned. Our burden of debt is heavy already, and instead of increasing it we should try to lighten it. The measure provides for certain urgent works, and members on this side of the chamber do not intend to delay them by opposing the second reading of the bill. I point out, however, that the policy of the Government perpetuates the evil system of borrowing for works that are not reproductive. I desire to emphasize my first point that if the Government regard it as necessary to borrow money for specific works, Parliament should be informed as to the nature of those works, the source from which the money is to be raised and the interest rate that will be charged for it. It is vitally important that all honorable senators should be informed whether the money is to be borrowed within or outside Australia. 
 Instead of pursuing the old effete and disastrous method of raising money, I wish to suggest to the Minister, and through him to the officials of the Treasury, that another method of securing the necessary funds to carry on the works referred to in this bill might well be considered. The sum asked for is not very large. It is only about  £8,300,000.  I do not know what the terms of the loan will be, but I presume that we shall have to pay interest at the rate of at least  5  per cent., which, at the end of twelve months, will amount to  £415,000.  That interest will be gone for ever. I know that some of our alleged financial geniuses do not care about departing from what is regarded as the well-beaten and safe track, but I point out that the following of that path has led Australia into borrowing enormous sums of money, on which the public and private interest to-day runs into probably  £50,000,000,  or, in round figures,  £1,000,000  a week. This is a serious drain upon the people of the Commonwealth, and we should do well to consider whether some scheme can be devised to obviate it. Although the Minister may not agree with the suggestion I am about to make, I believe it to be in the best interests of the" Commonwealth. Instead of the Government going to the London or New York money markets, or using the columns of the Australian daily press to the tune of hundreds of thousands of pounds a year in advertising for money, as was done in connexion with the conversion loan of  £68,000,000,  an effort should be made to find out whether it is possible to adopt a better method than that in operation. 
That method was strenuously resented when the Labour Government, led by  Mr. Fisher,  put into operation the idea of printing Australian notes; but, despite that, one can now buy as much for a  £1  note as he can for a -sovereign. The notes are easier to carry than gold, and in many respects they are more convenient. The public is satisfied to take them, and does not know to a few million pounds how many of them are in circulation. Approximately,  £56,000,000  of notes have been printed, and about half that sum is held by the Commonwealth Bank. I suggest to the Minister that he have a consultation with, some of the financial experts at present controlling the Commonwealth Bank as to whether it is not possible to print an additional  £8,300,000  of notes, instead of borrowing this money abroad. I have a recollection that not very long ago a very substantial number of notes were issued by the bank. If the Minister obtained possession of them he could repay to the bank  £415,000  of notes annually, and at the end of  20  years  the loan would be extinguished. But under the played-out system now in vogue the interest will be paid for 20 years, and at the end of that time we shall still owe £8,300,000.. 

 Sitting 
 suspended 
 from 1 to 2 p.m. 

When some persons once commence to follow a certain course, they have the greatest possible reluctance to explore new avenues. Those conducting the affairs of this country, especially our financial advisers, have refused, perhaps more than any other section of the community, to seek fresh sources from which to obtain their financial requirements. Occasionally a ray of light seems to penetrate their intelligence, and they make a slight departure from the established custom, with- very good results. On one occasion, when the States were somewhat pressed financially, the Commonwealth was appealed to, and a sum of, I think, £15,000,000 in notes was made available. The States are today paying interest to the Commonwealth, and so far as I can gather, nothing of a very unusual character has happened. If the Commonwealth had borrowed that £15,000,000 in New York or in London, it would have been faced with an annual bill based on interest at 5 per cent., which would represent a very substantial sum, and the principal would still be owing. Nothing of. the kind has happened. On a more recent occasion, in response to very urgent representations made by those engaged in the pastoral industry, an additional £5,000,000 was made available; when a financial measure was before Parliament. We were then told by certain of our exceptionally wise financiers that an inflation of the currency would mean an increase in prices, and that a number of other disastrous results would follow. Nothing of the kind has happened. During the construction of the TransAustralian railway, approximately £3,000,000 was made available by the Note Issue Department, on which, no interest has ever been or will ever be paid. I have mentioned several fairly substantial sums which in the opinion of our financial experts have been raised in a somewhat irregular manner, but the arrangements have been of distinct advantage to the Commonwealth. I do not pay any attention to the repeated statements that the issue of additional notes means that higher prices are charged, because I do not think those who make such statements know what they are talking about. 
I do not intend to deal with the position in Russia, and, as a fact, I am not keenly interested in what is taking place in that country. My time is fully occupied in keeping in touch with what is happening in the Commonwealth, although I endeavour to take, an occasional glance at the situation in other countries. In Germany printing presses worked at such a rate that the value of the mark depreciated to an almost negligible point. What I propose is an inflation of the note issue which would be so small that it would be almost imperceptible. 
A similar statement was made by  Sir Joseph  Cook when the Fisher Government issued papermoney against the gold reserve. We have not witnessed any of the disastrous effects predicted by that Government, and I do not think we ever shall. It was held for a long time that it was 'injudicious finance to issue paper money beyond the actual value of the gold held in reserve, but later that opinion was set aside, and the issue was increased by 50 per cent. At different periods additional paper money has been issued against the gold reserve, and, speaking from memory, about £56,000,000 worth of notes have now been issued on that basis. It is true that prices have advanced, but I am not prepared to admit that the issue of paper money is responsible. Paper money merely takes the place of gold, and is more convenient to handle. If we were to borrow the amount now proposed from London or New York, we should merely be advised by wireless that the loan had been a huge success - it would be a success to those financial manipulators who usually make tens of thousands out of the transaction. A message would be received that the loan had been sucessfully  floated, and next morning the Government would proceed to issue, not- English or American notes, but notes issued by the Commonwealth Bank. Why cannot we use Australian notes in the first place instead of going through the unnecessary performance of negotiating with London or New York? We are at present converting £68,000,000 of the 4½ per cent. loan falling due on 15th December next, and large sums are being expended in endeavouring to induce the people to lock up their money in this loan for a further period. I believe that more than onehalf of the loan has already been converted. Instead of using borrowed money to convert the whole of the bonds, the Commonwealth Bank should print an additional £20,000,000 worth of notes, and invite the bondholders to collect their money. 
I believe in proceeding cautiously. What would happen if we commenced by issuing notes to the value of £34,000,000, and invited bondholders to obtain their money? Instead of having a negotiable bond, they would have the actual cash at their disposal, and the Commonwealth could immediately cease paying interest. 
The bonds have to be met on the 15th December next, and the Minister suggests that if the Government offered the bondholders notes, they would not accept them. Such a statement is absurd. If payment were made on that basis, bondholders would probably place the notes to their credit at the bank. 
There is very little likelihood of obtaining gold from the Treasury. How could they obtain £68,000,000 in gold when there is only about one-half of that amount available ? 
I increased it to £34,000,000. The bondholders, on receiving notes, would place them to their credit, and there would be more cash available. 
That is not so. 
There was no marked increase in prices when £5,000,000 was made available some time ago. In the circumstances I have mentioned, the bank would have more money than it needed, and the rate of interest would be reduced. That would not be an unmixed evil, because money would be available at a cheaper rate. As I have stated, the interest we are now paying on war loan, to the extent to which the bonds were cashed, would cease for ever. We are now paying approximately £20,000,000 a year in interest on war loans. Interest payments very seriously drain the financial resources of Australia. The interest bill of Great Britain amounts to £1,000,000 a day, and that money has to be obtained from the people who do the work of the country, just as the money to pay our interest bill of £1,000,000 a week - taking all our public debts into consideration - has to be obtained from the people who do the work of this country. If that tremendous sum can be reduced, it ought to be reduced. The scheme I have submitted is, in my opinion, practicable. If I had to handle the conversion of the £68,000,000 that will fall due on the 15th December next, I should not feed, feast, and fatten the press of this country like the Commonwealth Bank is doing, in order to induce the people to subscribe to a new loan at, of course, a higher rate of interest. If the interest rate is to increase year by year, the burden of the people will become heavier all the time. 
I have neither villas, terraces, nor anything else in the way of house property for rental purposes, and I cannot answer a hypothetical question like that. 
In the bad old days, a number of people were given that right, just as they were given the right to manufacture and sell spirits without let or hindrance ; but those days are gone, and I would not favour reverting to that practice. My scheme would be highly beneficial to the community. I am surprised that none of the Napoleons of finance on the other side of the chamber have offered any suggestion as to how our tremendous interest bill may be lightened. The war has been over for a number of years, but its cost appears to me to be mounting up all the time. I do not know whether the Treasury officials have been requested to give special consideration to this problem, with a view to indicating some methods by which it may be overcome; but I am certain that any proposal that will result in reducing the interest bill will be heartily welcomed by our people. I could indicate a source from which money could be obtained to pay the interest bill, but it would probably be out of order for me to introduce that subject. 
I am satisfied that this subject is far too important to be treated in the usual stereotyped fashion. The members of this chamber are reckoned to be equal in intelligence to any other similar number of men in the Commonwealth, but not one of them has been able to suggest how to reduce our interest bill. I understand that in Germany the internal debt has been wiped out; but I would not advocate the adoption of similar methods here. I do not advocate the Russian methods either. But it seems to me that if the Government can issue £56,000,000 worth of notes against 40,000,000 sovereigns, it could also issue another £8.000,000 worth. 
The honorable senator has already made a statement to that effect several times. I ask him not to repeat it. 
I should like the Minister for Home and Territories  (Senator Pearce)  to tell us when and under what terms the Government proposes to dispose of the plantations in the Mandated Territory of New Guinea that are at present controlled by the Expropriation Board. This information is being anxiously sought by many returned soldiers who are at present acting as overseers on the properties. They wish to know the upset price as well as the terms under which the plantations will be offered. Most of them, I understand, are in favur of a freehold title. 
The honorable senator will have an opportunity to discuss that matter later on. It is not dealt with in this bill. 
The time has arrived when we should cease subsidizing the Amalgamated Wireless Limited. I consider also that we should repeal the regulations under which licence fees are charged to those who listen in. No such fee is charged in America, and I do not know of any reason why it should be imposed here. If it were abolished there would be a very much more extensive use of wireless. 
In committee we shall have an opportunity to deal with the items at length, but in the meantime I protest against the proposal to vote any sum of money to meet the costs incurred in assisting immigration. In all the States the Labour party is uniformly in opposition to expenditure in this direction, so long as we have unemployed here, and so long as the States refuse to make land available to those who would work it if they could get it. The proposal now before us to spend money in this direction needs very careful consideration. I have on previous occasions voiced my views upon this question. I am strongly opposed to the proposed expenditure. So far as the balance of the items is concerned I have no objection to expenditure on new buildings. My main objection is not to the manner in which the money is to be expended, but to the obsolete, effete, and out of date methods proposed to be adopted for raising this new loan. 

 Senator J. B. HAYES (Tasmania) T2.32]. - Clause 5 of the bill proposes to lapse  all unexpended balances of loan moneys up to the 30th June last, with the exception of those provided for in Loan Act (No. 1) of 1925. I realize the desirability both from a political and from a departmental point of view of reappropriating such balances. Schedule 2 of the bill practically repeals fourteen Loan Acts, and the unexpended balances of the amounts authorized by those acts will be re-appropriated for expenditure. Any one who has had any experience of a works department knows that it entails a considerable amount of work to keep an account of each of these small balances. Their re- appropriation will no doubt make the task of the departmental officers a great deal lighter. I hardly think, however, that it will get them where they expect to get, so long as they continue to make the public works year coincide with the financial year. It is only possible to do so on this occasion, because a loan bill was passed in June last. I understood the Minister to say that the Government, intended to make it a practice to lapse every year all unexpended balances. The objection to such a course is that after the 30th June of each year no loan money will be available until a new loan bill is passed, and if Parliament is not meeting in June, the department will be landed in difficulties. It will be unable to carry on works. I never could see why the 1st July to the 30th June should constitute a public works year. I have had a good deal of experience in this direction, and I have always held the view that the public works year should be the calendar year. Under such a system money is voted by Parliament in spring, and the department then has the whole of the following calendar year in which to spend it. It does not matter then whether Parliament is sitting in the middle of the calendar year or not. The department always has sufficient money in hand to carry on. When Parliament meets in the later portion of the year the amount unexpended in one calendar year can always be reappropriated for expenditure in the following calendar year. As a matter of fact, I could never quite see why the financial year should end on the 30th June. We are now compelled to vote money a large proportion of which has already been spent, if the department has not suspended operations and has carried on after the end of June. This does not matter so much in respect of expenditure out of revenue, which is, to a large extent, the same month after month, and is mostly for salaries and office expenses. In the case of public works, where the amounts vary considerably, the difficulty cannot be overcome by asking Parliament to pass supply bills. Consequently, if Parliament does not happen to be sitting in June, as was the case this year, the Works Department is likely to be placed in a difficult position through not being able to get the unexpended balances reappropriated. There should be a standard provision in every loan bill to which every one will become accustomed, providing that the unexpended balances of previously authorized expenditure are  reappropriated  on the 1st January, or any other convenient time in each year. I am quite sure the present system will not work satisfactorily. 
This bill contains something which I have never seen in a previous loan bill. It asks Parliament to vote £4,149,596 for postal works, but it gives no details beyond stating, for instance, that 67 buildings are to be altered and 50 buildings erected in New South "Wales. We have not a scratch of the pen to show what any particular item will cost. This Parliament is supposed to exercise some restraint and control over the expenditure of public money. People can always be found who will declare that money is being wasted on a work that may be under the control of the best architects in the world. Consequently, honorable senators are often called upon to defend Commonwealth works expenditure against criticism which is mostly wrong. But if honorable senators are asked what any work is costing, they cannot supply the information. They ought to be in a position to tell their constituents what money Parliament has been asked to vote for certain works. Yet here we are asked to hand over to the Postmaster-General £4,000,000, to do the best he can with it, and we do not even know how much is to be spent in each State. I have no doubt that the fullest information can be obtained from the Ministers who will be in control of this expenditure, but, in my opinion, it should be given in the bill itself. I notice that the sum of £808 is mentioned as the amount Parliament is authorized to spend on Commonwealth offices, Brisbane, yet there is absolutely nothing to show where or how this amount of over £4,000,000 is to be spent. I have no desire to criticize the measure unduly, and I would not think of holding it up, because I have confidence in the Ministers, but I think that, in future, Parliament ought to know what it is asked to vote on, and, above all, what proportion of the money will be spent in each State. If I think that the proposed expenditure on a certain building is too much, I should have the right to say so. With the detailed figures before' me, J might be able to contend that the amount provided in the bill for a particular work" is not sufficient. I should have the opportunity to find out how much each work is likely to cost. Therefore, ' I hope that future loan bills will afford the information, that will enable honorable senators to know what the Government are doing. 

 Senator HOARE (South Australia) [2.48  . - The idea put forward by  Senator J.  Grant in regard to the Commonwealth note issue was by no means a new one. It is the opinion of thousands of people in Australia that it is the best means of getting over the difficulty of continually borrowing abroad or at home. 
But the Government, thinking it a good scheme, has already put it into practice in order to raise a sum of £5,000,000. Immediately one tries to put into practice a scheme behind which, admittedly, there is some good, the claim is made that the effect of it will be to increase the price of commodities. 
Never mind the definite credit. The position is just the same now. If this bill is carried, it will have the effect of compelling us to borrow to the extent of £8,000,000. I fail to see why the scheme suggested should not be put into practice. I did not notice any increase in the price of commodities when it was put into practice by the Government a little while ago.' No one was the poorer because it was tried. In all probability the Minister will deal with this phase of the. question when he replies. We recognize that, while there may be difficulties in the way, they should not be insuperable. The scheme was tried in the island of Guernsey very many years ago. An important public work was paid for by means of local debentures, which, as they fell due, were redeemed and destroyed. In other words, they were withdrawn from circulation. Why cannot we finance our undertakings on similar lines? The honorable the Minister intimated that he was- not in a position to say whether the money to be raised under this measure would be borrowed in Australia or abroad. It is important that we should know, because at an early date we shall have before us a measure to amend the tariff. Increased duties are being levied on the importation of certain commodities, and it appears that the 
Government proposes to encourage further importations by borrowing another £8,000.000 abroad. If we raise the tariff for the protection of Australian industry, we should put an end to this policy of borrowing abroad. If we borrow another £8,000.000 overseas, we shall have to import' another £8,000,000 worth of goods, which, added to . the £15,000,000 worth that will come to us as the result of a recent overseas loan of £15.000,000, will make a total of £23,000,000 worth of imports coming to Australia upon which higher Customs duties will be levied. If the £8,000,000 to be raised under the authority of this bill is borrowed in Australia, so much the better. 
In all probability, then, the loan will be floated in New York, so we may expect to see another £8,000,000 worth of goods imported from the United States of America to the detriment of Australian secondary industries. 
The Premier of Queensland, and the honorable senator and his friends denounced him. Now that the National Government proposes to borrow from the United States, Ministerial supporters applaud the policy. 
No difference in the world, I suppose, but we say that loans should, whenever possible, be floated in Australia. The Government contends that it has paid £5,000,000 off the national debt, but now we have a proposal to borrow £8,000,000, so our finances have actually gone to the bad to the extent of £3,000,000. 
No; but I contend that much of the expenditure should be met out of revenue, and not paid out of loan. There is no justification for the expenditure, from loan money, of £430,000 for defence. My memory carries me back to the time when the Federal Government of the day wished to pre sent the British Government with a dreadnought as its contribution to the defence of the Empire, and proposed to pay for it out of loan money. Fortunately, a change of Government took place. Labour decided that the best contribution to Empire defence was for Australia  to  build her own battleships and to pay for them out of revenue. 
But the Labour party forced his hand. If there is one thing more than another that should  be  paid for out of revenue it is expenditure on migration, because migrants immediately contribute to the revenue through Customs duties.  Senator Newland  pointed out that at the present rate of redemption the national debt should be extinguished in 50 years.  If  we do not put a stop to thisborrowing policy, we shall never be able to pay  off  the national debt. If the Government is not prepared to cease borrowing abroad it should be honest enough to renounce its claim to be a protectionist government, and confess that it favours the importation of foreign goods to the detriment  of  Australian industries. 
I shall be brief in my opposition to this measure, under which loan money will be expended,  inter alia,  for the purpose of defence. Money required for the defence of Australia should be raised within Australia. If sufficient revenue is not at the disposal  of  the Government for this purpose, the Government should impose additional taxation. We should be patriotic enough to say that the defence of Australia is essentially an Australian financial responsibility. I rose chiefly to object to borrowing overseas, especially in view of the statement made some time ago by the present Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Pratten),  that it was sound finance to raise money in Australia, even if  we  had to pay a higher rate of interest,  because  the interest payments would be made to Australians. I endorse that statement. I notice an item of £330,000 for immigration - advances of passage money, landing money and medical fees  of  assisted immigrants. We know that a considerable sum of money has been advanced to assist people  to  come  to  Australia. In some cases the whole  of  the  passage money has been paid by the Government, and in other cases the migrants have been assisted to the extent of portion of the passage money required. It would be interesting and informative to know what amount has actually been advanced, how much is at present outstanding, and whether the Government has had any difficulty in getting refunds. I noticed a statement in an evening newspaper the other day by a gentleman who apparently had overheard a conversation between two immigrants. The tenor of the conversation led him to believe that, although these migrants were expected to refund the amount of the passage money that had been advanced to them, they did not intend to do so. Have the Government had any point- blank refusals in regard to claims for the refund of passage money ? W&gt; are told that most of those who have been assisted have already returned the money advanced to them. Some of them are said to be engaged on the land, and others, we are told, are in various occupations. If they are in employment they are bound by the conditions under which they came to Australia, and should refund the money within a reasonable period. I hope that the Minister will give the Senate any information^ he may have at hia disposal regarding this point. It is not business-like to go on indefinitely advancing passage money, if it is not to be refunded. I wish to know whether the Government or the officials have had any point-blank refusals on the part of new arrivals to pay back the money so advanced to them. 
I am unable to inform  Senator Needham  where it is proposed to raise the loan that the bill authorizes. It will depend altogether on the condition of the money market in Australia and abroad. I point out, however, that the Commonwealth is now floating a conversion  loan of £68,000,000 for the redemption of existing war loans. It would probably be difficult, therefore, to borrow in Australia at the present time any sum in addition to that required for the conversion loan. During the past two years the Commonwealth debt has been reduced by payments of over £14,000,000 in the shape of contributions in various ways to the ginkin? fund. Of course, the whole of our debt reduction has not been effected through what is known as the sinking fund, for we are paying a considerable sum every year direct to Great Britain in connexion with our war liability. It is necessary to raise money from year to year for the purpose of carrying out permanent, and in many instances, reproductive works. This year it is proposed to expend no less than £6,000,000 on postal works, chiefly in the erection of telephone exchanges, and in the provision of telephonic facilities generally. This money is not to be expended as a mere speculation, but is required in response to the applications for telephones by citizens throughout the Commonwealth.- I am sure that policy is approved by honorable senators on both sides of the chamber. The applications now average over 5,000 a month, and if they are not granted there will be great complaint from every member of the Parliament. 
No, because the contributions to the sinking fund are not all on the 50 years' basis. In many instances they are determined according to the life of the asset for which the money has been borrowed. While money is being raised from year to year, there* ca.n.not be a very large annual reduction in the aggregate indebtedness. Nevertheless, if payments to the sinking fund are continued on the present basis, all debts will be extinguished within 50 years from the time when the money was borrowed. It is not my intention to dwell at any length on  Senator J.  Grant's suggestion for obtaining this money without appealing to the public. We know that there is a limit to the amount of notes that can be issued. It depends upon the requirements of the public, and we cannot force on the people notes which they are not prepared to accept, and which the business of the country does not warrant. It may be contended also with regard to the raising of loans locally, that consideration has to be given to the amount of money required to carry on private business upon, which employment and the prosperity of the Commonwealth chiefly depend. Even if we should have to borrow in America, it does not necessarily follow that we shall hare to take goods to the value  of  the money borrowed. The money could easily be transferred to some other country from which we might be purchasing goods. When one of the States borrowed money in New York some years ago, it was immediately transferred to London ; and I understand that  Borne  profit was wade on the transaction. On the question of preference to Australian lenders, I point out that this Government has adopted that attitude. The money recently borrowed in England and the United States of America was obtained at 5 per cent., while that for which we are now asking in the Commonwealth carries interest at per cent. The information sought by  Senator Findley  as to the sums refunded by immigrants with respect to advances of passage money is not available for the moment; but I understand that, in committee, the Minister for Markets and Migration  (Senator Wilson)  will be in a position to supply it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 5 agreed to. 
First schedule. 
.- I should like some information in regard to- the item " Soldiers' Mental Hospital, West Subiaco, Western Australia - buildings and equipment-7-£40,000." Some time ago, when the Returned Sailors and Soldiers' Imperial League in this Sta te was anxious to have a separate mental hospital for soldier cases, a definite stand was taken by the Ministry against it, and it was said that these cases would have to come under the care of the State Department. Does the item  to  which I have referred indicate a departure from that policy? 
.- Is the £500 set down for " London Offices " intended for the Office of the High Commissioner? 
.- What is the purpose of the item of £12,000 for the acquisition of land at "Fairy Meadow, New South Wales? 
This property was compulsorily acquired a number of years ago foi' the purpose of obtaining a supply of limestone for the building of the Federal Capital. A number of legal actions resulted. The mineral rights had to be considered; and there was litigation in the supreme and High Courts. This is the final payment to wind up the whole transaction. 
I should like to know how far the work of providing oil storage facilities, for which £24,000 is provided, has proceeded. I do not expect the Minister  (Senator Crawford)  to state the situation of such depots, but desire some information as to the progress of the work. There is another item, "Naval bases, works, and establishments, £137,410;" and perhaps the Minister can state if any provision has been made for the re-establishment of the Naval Base at Cockburn Sound, seeing that experts have favorably reported on the site. There is also an item "Towards cost of construction of buildings, hangars, workshops, barracks and earthworks, and preparation of aerial routes and landing grounds, £126,000." As the aerial arm of defence is most important, we should have information as to what is being done before authorizing the expenditure of the amount proposed. Provision is also made for the expenditure of £40,000 towards the high explosives factory at Maribyrnong. When the Public Accounts Committee inquired into the question of munitions supply it appeared that the Government was making an earnest effort to make Australia self-contained in the matter of defence, and it would be interesting to know how far the work at Maribyrnong Iws proceeded. Expenditure of £10,000 is also proposed in connexion with the Lithgow Machine-gui Factory. Will the Minister state how that work is proceeding? 

 Senator CRAWFORD (Queensland- Honorary Minister) 13.20]. - In regard to the first item, "Oil storage facilities, £24,000," mentioned by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Needham),  I may explain that provision for the erection of one 8,000-ton oil fuel storage tank at Darwin was made in the additions and new works estimates payable from revenue in 1924-25, and an order placed through the Admiralty for supplies. In accordance with the approved programme of naval activities provision has beon made for the supply and erection  of  an additional 8,000-tou tank in 1925.  .lt  is essential that adequate supplies of fuel oil should be available in the north of Australia for the use of the Heel. lu regard to the honorable senator's inquiry concerning the expenditure of £137.410 on naval bases., works, and establishments, I may explain that it is proposed to expend £15,960 in New South Wales, £11,563 in Victoria, £446 in South Australia, and £87 in Tasmania, as well as other amounts, which have been set out in detail, on other necessary works in tha various States. 
 Is it intended to proceed with  the  Naval Base at Cockburn Sound '? 
I wish to direct the attention of the Minister  (Senator Crawford)  to a  request  made some time ago for the erection of an aerodrome at Rockhampton. I hope the matter has- not  been  overlooked by the Government, and that effect will be given to the request of the Rockhampton authorities. 
It is proposed to spend £40,000 this year on civil aviation, and I can assure  Senator Thompson  that the claims of the Rockhampton people will not be overlooked in this connexion. 
.- In this schedule provision has been made for the expenditure of £500,000 for advances to the States and to the settlors in the Northern Territory for the purchase of wire netting. The question of wire netting supplies was before Parliament some tune ago, and a bill under which financial assistance was given to the States requiring supplies of wire, netting was passed by both Houses of Parliament. I should like the Minister  (Senator Crawford)  to say what States have applied for assistance, and also the amounts it is proposed to allocate to each State find the Northern Territory. I should also like to know how much has been advanced to the States up to date, apart from the amount proposed to be voted under this bill. Progress reported. 
Is it a fact that the visit of the Treasurer,  Dr. Earle  Page, to Adelaide during the last fewdays, was for the purpose of endeavouring to settle a dispute between the "job controllers" of South Australia and  Senator Wilson? 
Never interfere in a domestic quarrel. 
If it is a fact, as stated in the press, that the closest secrecy was observed in the enrolment and swearingin of Commonwealth peace officers in Sydney, will the Leader of the Government in the Senate be good enough to state the reason for such secrecy? 

 - Senator Findley should not be led away by reports in the press, probably published in the hope of creating a sensation. In giving effect to the measure which was passed by Parliament, the Government will act with due decorum and with due regard to the proprieties. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
When does the Minister propose to make available to members of the Senate the Tariff Board reports on which the recent alterations of the tariff tabled in another place are based? 
A number of the reports will be placed on the table of the Senate to-morrow. As soon as possible the whole will be made available. 
 Formerly the reports of the Tariff Board were printed and circulated amongst honorable senators, but recently, although the meetings of the board have been held in public, the reports have not been furnished to us. 
I should like to know whether it is intended to publish the whole of the reports, or only a limited number of them. 
 Provision is made in the schedule for an expenditure of  £83,000  on the Port Augusta to Oodnadatta railway, and  £250,000  on railway connexion to Alice Springs. I should like to know when the line to Alice Springs will be completed, and whether the proposed alternative route from Kingoonya on the east-west railway will interfere with the construction of the north-south railway. 
Although the proposed vote under the heading of Trade and Customs hasbeen disposed of, perhaps the Minister  (Senator Crawford)  will be good enough to supply the particulars regarding wire netting which I asked for on Friday, and which he promised to furnish? 
In the circumstances, I think the information may be asked for and supplied, but not debated. 

 Senator CRAWFORD (Queensland - 
Findley asked for particulars of the allocation between the various States and the Northern Territory of the amount of £250,000 made available for advances to settlers for the purchase of wire netting, together with the amounts actually advanced. The details are as follow: - 

<graphic href="111332192509090_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

No. Particulars in regard to the sum of £83,000 required in connexion with the Port Augusta to Oodnadatta line are as follow :  - 

<graphic href="111332192509090_1_1.jpg"></graphic>

Those figures relate to the existing line. A sum of £250,000 is provided for an extension of the line from Oodnadatta, but a bill must be passed by Parliament before that sum can be spent. 
.. - An amount is provided for the erection of a post office at Denmark, Western Australia. I should like to know whether provision has been made for the erection of postmaster's quarters there ?' 
Working drawings and specifications are being prepared for the invitation of tenders, and will include provision for a residence. In regard to the point raised on Friday last by  Senator Findley  in relation to loan moneys advanced to assisted immigrants, I now desire to inform the honorable senator that the total amount advanced by the Commonwealth and British Governments jointly to assisted migrants in respect of passage money to date is £544,089, of which£188,979 has been repaid, leaving a balance of £355,110 outstanding, of which half is, of course, Commonwealth money and the remaining half British Government money. Assisted migrants before leaving England are required to give a written undertaking that they will repay the advances made to them at the rate of so much per month, but repayment at the specified rate is not always insisted upon. Substantial reductions in the rate of repayment are frequently agreed to after the merits of each application for relief are inquired into. No case can. be recalled where a migrant has given a blank refusal to honour his: undertaking to repay theloan advanced to him, but, as may be expected where such a large number of people are being, dealt with, there have been cases of evasion.; Also, in cases where migrants arrive in Australia and move about, either within a State or from State to State, without notifying the Migration Offices concerned of their movements, the instalments f all into arrear. These would, of course, be classed as cases of evasion. Approximately, 60 per cent. of the instalments are, however, paid on the due date. In all cases where migrants are able to show that they are unable to meet their obligations, sympathetic consideration in the matter of deferring payment of the instalments due is given. 
First schedule agreed to. 
Second schedule agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment. 
I move- 
That so much of the standing, and sessional orders be suspended as would preventthe bill being passed through its remaining stages without delay. 
There is only the. formal stage of the. bill left, and it is desirable, from the 
Treasury point of view, that it should be assented to as soon as possible. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
Sub-clause 60abd provides that 25 per cent. of the net annual profits of the Note Issue Department shall be paid into the Rural Credits Department. I should like to know whether this is to be regarded as a loan, and, if so, what will be the rate of interest. 
I presume the Treasurer has given the matter careful consideration, but in my opinion the principle is unsound, and I enter my protest against it. The money should be raised by some other means than a grant from the Note Issue Department. I also direct attention to sub-clause 60abe, under which the bank may issue debentures. I should like the Minister to indicate the procedure contemplated to synchronize the date of retirement of the debentures with the returns from the produce involved. 
.- There should be no difficulty, such as is anticipated by the honorable senator, in regard to the date of retirement of debentures. The board which controls the note issue will also administer the Rural Credits Department, and will be able so to arrange the purchase and retirement of debentures as to avoid payment of interest on debentures after the produce has been sold and payment received. 
.- I move- 
That the words " or other banks," paragraph a of proposed new section 60abi be left out. 
The purpose of my amendment is to eliminate, as far as possible, the intervention of the middleman. If the clause is passed as it stands there will be nothing to prevent middlemen operating at the expense of the producer. Theunderlying principle of the measure is to assist the man on the land. " It is a very laudable object, and has my cordial endorsement. It is a principle for which honorable senators on this side have always stood. The bill as drafted will enable the middleman to intervene, and if it becomes law in its present form it will prove a curse instead of a blessing to the producer. I can see no reason why the Rural Credits Department should lend money to another bank.  Senator Pearce  the other day twitted certain honorable senators with a lack of knowledge of finance. The veriest tyro in finance knows perfectly well that private banks are not philanthropic institutions. 
The private banks charge the highest interest rate possible. In times of stress they have foreclosed on mortgagors, and made the lot of the producer very difficult. The Commonwealth Bank should not encourage such practices. I want the primary producer to be able to go direct to the Rural Credits Department. 
The Government cannot accept the amendment, and I ask the committee to reject it. There will be no compulsion on producers' organizations to go to private banks; under the bill they will have the undoubted right to go direct to the Rural Credits Department. Surely it must be conceded that they are the best judges of what is in their interests? If they prefer to go to a private bank, why should we decline to allow  them? The clause merely provides that producers' organizations may obtain the necessary credits either direct from the Rural Credits Department or from  a  private bank. 
 I regard this provision as the best feature of the bill. If the wheat crop  and  the wool clip  in any  one year were of a bounteous nature, with the private banks given facilities to assist  in  financing them, the operation would be comparatively simple. But if,  on  the other hand, the Commonwealth Bank alone had to be relied upon, difficulties might be encountered, since these operations would follow closely upon each other. I hope that the amendment will not be agreed to. I should like the Minister to inform me whether a large grower of wheat or wool, who is also a shipper, will be able to approach the Rural Credits Department. There does not appear to be any provision to meet such a contingency. I can imagine a man having perhaps, 20,000 or 30,000 bushels of wheat or a large wool clip in a single bottom. Will such  a  man be able to obtain an advance under this scheme ? 
. -We  should try to save the producer from himself. The Minister (SenatorPearce) said that the primary producer should be the best judge of the way in which his business ought to be transacted. That is all very well; but if there is one institution only to which the primary producer can go, he will necessarily have to confine his dealings to it. The private banks may make it more difficult to secure credits. The operation will certainly be more expensive, and for that reason I prefer that there should be only one bank, and that the Commonwealth Bank, with which the. primary producer can deal. 
 The clause should remain as printed. The private banks serve a very useful purpose in our community. How would the Commonwealth have fared in the flotation of its war loans but for the assistance that was given by the private banks? It will cost no more to obtain money from a private bank than directly fromthe Rural Credits Department.If every one is driven to do business with the Commonwealth Bank, competition will be eliminated. Why should any one be debarred from doing business with a bank with which he has had business relations for many years? I support the bill as it stands. Its usefulness would be destroyed if the clause were amended as proposed. 
I desire that the primary producer shall have direct access to the Rural Credits Department, and with that object in view, I move the following further amendment: - 
That after the word " banks," paragrapha of proposed new section 60ab1, the following words be added :  - " or a primary producer." 
Under the clause as it stands the producer would be able to apply to the Commonwealth Bank or to a private bank, but it would be useless for him to make an individual application to the Rural Credits Department. 
Whether he could or could not, the position would not  be made any worse by giving him direct access to the department, for it would save him from the exploitation of the middleman. 
I am rather surprised at  Senator Needham  moving this amendment. The whole object of the bill, and of the associated legislation, is to encourage orderly marketing through collective agencies. Judging by the protestations of theparty opposite of its belief in collectivism, one would haveexpected it to support this measure strongly, because it seeks to encourage collective effort. If the producers are to dispose of their crops to the best advantage in the overseas markets orderly and collective marketing is required-. To that end recent legislation has been shaped, and the present bill represents a further step in the direction of encouraging co-operative societies and cooperative marketing. If an individual refuses to join in the co-operative efforts of his fellow-producers, the bill does not deprive him of an opportunity of obtaining finance. He can still approach either the Commonwealth Bank or any of the other banks as an individual. But ha cannot have the latter privilege and at the same time receive the benefit of this special legislation, which is specially directed at assisting cooperative effort. The Government believes that the measure will be to the distinct advantage of the producer. If he wishes to escape from the middleman, who is said to be exploiting him, it is obvious that he cannot do so by operating as an individual. Even if the producer were able to obtain credit on his own behalf, he would be unable to market his produce except through the middleman. Imagine an individual apple-grower proceeding to place his fruit on the London market without resort to the middleman. He could not do it unless he werevery wealthy, since he would need to have a representative on the other side of the world to look after his produce. Producers of butter and other commodities are similarly dependent on the middleman, and if honorable senators opposite wish to assist the producers to escape him, their best plan is to support this bill, which encourages co-operative marketing. I hope that the amendment will be rejected. 
I presume that the assistance will not apply solely to the marketing of produce that is exported ? 
SenatorPearce. - It relates to produce that is to be exported. 
Is it not intended to help men on the land prior to their produce reaching the stage when it is ready for export? Surely assistance should be rendered in the earlier stages, otherwise a man might have no produce to export. The man who reaches the export stage referred to by  Senator Pearce  may be independent of any bank, and it should be our object to assist him to reach that position. 
If an individual is at liberty at any time to apply to the Commonwealth Bank or a private bank for an advance, why should he not also be able to obtain an advance from the Rural Credits Department of the Commonwealth Bank, to assist him to reach the stage at which he can export? I think there is every justification for my amendment. 
The Governor-General is in Sydney, and this bill must be passed before the train leaves for Sydney to-morrow afternoon, so that it may be forwarded for His. Excellency's assent, which will give the Government the necessary warrantto pay the amounts authorized by the measure. Had the bill reached us on Friday, I should have moved the first reading on that day. As  it  is, I have now to move the suspension of the Standing Orders, so that honorable senators will have to-day, and, if necessary, until 4 p.m. to-morrow, for a full discussion. I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister should have given us some information. I have not the least idea of what is contained in this bill. 
Surely the Minister could give those details. I have not even seen the bill. 
It was my intention to deliver a speech on the financial position. This I am prevented from doing, because I have not the details of the Government's proposals before me. 
.- I  should like to know what action the Government propose to take against persons., and certain sections of the press, who are condemning the men whose cases are now being considered by the Deportation Board. If these men were being tried in an ordinary court, those persons who are publicly condemning them would be guilty of contempt of court. I should like to know if the Government intends to take steps to prevent a continuance of this practice of condemning men whose case is still  sub judice.  The Government was responsible for the amendment of the Immigration Act which gave power to deport men found guilty of creating industrial strife, and isalso responsible for the appointment of a deportation board, and special police officers to act in accordance with the instructions of the Government. Personally, I think it is a dastardly act on the part of the members and supporters of the Government and the press of this country to convict men before evidence has been given on their behalf, and the board has come to a decision. 
It is a travesty on British justice. During a tour through the country, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  said yesterday that as the Labour movement and trade union organizations had failed to remove certain men from their official positions, the Government had appointed a board to protect trade unionism by putting these people out of the country. That is a damnable admission for the Prime Minister to make. I do not think the farce should be permitted to continue further without some protest being made in Parliament. 
A good deal of publicity has been given lately to the attitude of the Labour party on the question of defence, and our opponents have charged us with not having a defence policy. My attention has been drawn to the fact that £30,000,000 has been spent on defence in Australia since the Peace Treaty was signed. Is it not a fact that despite that enormous expenditure all the guns in our forts are obsolete, and that we would be at the mercy of any third-class cruiser that chose to attack us. 
 The information I have is that the whole of our defence system is obsolete, notwithstanding that  £30,000,000 has been spent on defence since the signing of the Treaty of Peace. The Government has nothing to show for the expenditure of this large sum. I take the strongest possible exception to the statement that the Labour party has no adequate defence system for Australia. We have a clear and definite policy. We believe that this country is worth defending, and are prepared to put a practical system of defence into operation. 
Has the Government a factory in Australia in which munitions other than machine-guns can be manufactured? 
I am asking the Minister if the Government has a factory in Australia in which other than machine-guns can be manufactured. The Minister knows That the answer is in the negative. It is the Labour party's policy to establish such a factory. 
We are now informed by the Minister that, although £30,000,000 has been spent on defence, the Government is now only commencing to construct a big-gun factory. 
I understood from what I read in the press recently, that the Government had a complete defence system, which it could put into operation if the occasion arose. The preparations which the Government have made for the defence of Australia, however, are practically nil. Even if the Labour party had been in power during the last ten years, and had been opposed to any system of defence, the result could not have been worse than it is to-day. As so much political capital has been made out of this question, I should like the Minister to explain to the Senate and to the country exactly what the Government's defence policy is, and what has been done to give effect to it. Although we have been informed that a factory is in course of erection, we have not been assured that it will eventually be completed, or guns suitable for the defence of Australia manufactured in it. It is an indictment against the Government that, although it has spent on defence an enormous sum of money, such a factory is not already in operation. As the Minister seems to be under the impression that the Labour party has not a defence policy, I wish to place on record the policy which was adopted at the last interstate Labour conference, and which every Labour candidate must undertake to support if elected to Parliament. It reads - 
Adequate home defence against possible foreign aggression. 
Convertible factories for small arms, munitions, aeroplanes. 
Air forces, depots, &amp;c. 
Land forces, fortifications, &amp;c. 
Submarines, and adequate abovewatercraft, and mines. 
Utilization of Bureau of Science and Industry for the purpose of standardization of' railway and motor rolling-stock, and materials. 7.Roads and railways. 
There is also a proposal in regard to the raising of forces for service outside theCommonwealth, and to so amend theConstitution that  men  cannot be conscripted for overseas service. 
It is not here. 
Neither was it affirmed. The honorable senator knows I am referring to our defence policy as finally adopted at the last interstate Labour conference. 
So that there may be no misunderstanding, I shall read it all. I wish it to be placed on record. 
It continues - 
That the Commonwealth Constitution be amended to include a condition that no Australian can be conscripted for military service overseas. 
Amendment of Defence Act to secure - 
Deletion of all clauses relating tocompulsory training and service; 
Abolition of trial by court martial where civil courts are available. Any sentence imposed by courtmartial to be subject to review by a civil court: 
No penalties to be imposed except in pursuance of explicit enactment; 
Intended regulations to be publicly advertised, and regulations to have no effect till before both Houses, either of which may veto; 
Limitation of professional soldiers to necessaryinstruction and administration and working staff ; 
Abolition of military oaths; 
Abolition of distinction between commissioned and noncommissioned officers; 
Recognition of principle of election of qualified candidates as officers; 
Salute and other useless discipline to be abolished; 
No employment of or interference by soldiers in industrial disputes. Punishment of Ministers and other persons responsible for breach of this provision. 
Citizens, on completion of training, to retain arms delivered to them during training; 
Defence acts to require annual renewal, as in England; 
No raising of forces for service outside the Commonwealth, or participation, or promise of participation in any future overseas war, except by decision of the people. 
The people could be consulted just as they were on the conscription issue. 
-We do not say that the people should be consulted in an emergency such as the threatened invasion of Australia. 
If Australia had the necessary defence equipment, the country could be successfully defended. 
For this view I have the endorsement of recognized military experts, who declare that the most powerful nation in the world would find it extremely difficult to transport a big invading force to Australia. No member of the Labour party is justified, in Parliament or out of Parliament, in repudiating the first eight proposals of the party for the defence of Australia. My leader in this chamber and every honorable senator on this side of the Senate, prior to selection signed the party platform, and gave an undertaking that, if elected, and if the Labour party came into power, he would loyally abide by the platform of the party. I mention this because certain newspapers in Australia and a number of our political opponents are trying to create an impression throughout the Commonwealth that the Labour party is not prepared to defend Australia. I give this allegation an unqualified denial. If returned to power Labour will give effect to its defence policy. Had Labour been in power since the declaration of peace, it would have had more to show for the £30,000,000 that has been expended on defence by the National Government. All the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  can say is that the Government has started to build a factory for the manufacture of big guns. I have been assured that obsolete guns are mounted in most of our forts, so our existing system of defence is little better than a sham. 
I am sure that all honorable senators listened with a great deal of interest to  Senator Hannan's  statement of the defence policy of the latter-day Labour party. We have been endeavouring for some time to extract from honorable senators opposite information on this point.  Senator Hannan  has at last left the beaten track, and has given us some idea of the policy of his party. 
What we do know is that the defence policy of the Labour party, which rendered such faithful service to Australiaduring the war, has since then radically changed. As a defence measure it bears no more resemblance to the defence policy of the old Labour party than the brightest noonday sun bears to the darkest night.  Senator Hannan  has frankly admitted that the party has eliminated the compulsory provisions of the Defence Act from its platform. This, notwithstanding the pious assertions of the party that it stands for the defence of Australia ! The policy really invites the people to please themselves whether or not they take any part in the defence of Australia. Even the aboriginal inhabitants of this country, or of the remote South Sea Islands, adopted some form of compulsion to ensure the defence of their possessions. It has remained for the latter-day Labour party to tell the people that the freedom they enjoy - a freedom which is not equalled in any other country - is not worth defending. Although I am not yet an old man, I remember when the liberty which I enjoy to-day was the dream of my youth. I prize it very highly indeed, and I realize how much I owe to those who, by their self-sacrifice and devotion to the cause of individual freedom, made it possible for this generation. 
This,  Mr. President,  is how the idle rabble meet the situation which confronts them, without giving chapter or verse for the faith which is in them, if they have any faith at all. They tell us that liberty is not worth defending. It is about time that the thinking people of this country had the real truth brought home to them. Why does the Labour party take this stand? Is it not because its members are afraid of the votes of a certain section of the people at the ballot-box? Members of the old Labour party -were courageous and patriotic enough to tell the people that the glorious liberty which they enjoyed was worth fighting for. 
Have we not evidence on every hand that anything of value in a material or moral sense is worth defending? Even the beer bottle by the way-side, if it be full, has value. Empty, it is valueless. No one takes pleasure in its possession. Does  Senator Hannan  suggest that when he was in the ranks of the workers he was in the habit of scattering his wages around on the verandah of his dwelling house? Of course he did not. He took very good care to protect the return which he received for his labour. So, then, should we be prepared to defend our liberty, because, in my judgment, it is the last expression  in  human freedom, and it is enjoyed in Australia in a measure unknown to the people of any other country. It is obvious that members of the latterday Labour party seek to evade their responsibilities as public men and leaders of political thought, because they fear the results of the ballot-box. We on this side are not afraid. That is one reason why I am here. This freedom, to secure which some members of the Labour party never lifted a finger, is not the exclusive privilege of citizens of the British Empire, much as that organization has done for it. lt has been fought for  in  other countries as well. The first shots fired at Lexington were as much in the cause of our freedon as any other outstanding episode in modern history. The late Lord Northcote did well to remind us that the experience gained by the North American Britishers - by the revolting colonies - was not lost on Britain. But it is deplorable that a party aspiring to power should say that this country - and by this we mean the liberties of the people - is not worth defending. We on this side repudiate that sentiment. We say that we are prepared to defend Australia and all that it means to us. That is the difference between the two opposing parties. Although  Senator Hannan  gave chapter and verse for his statement of Labour's new landed defence policy, he slurred over a few of its obviously embarrassing features. The party, wc are told, has deliberately cut out the compulsory provisions of the Defence Act, and we understand that it has some fantastic notions about the election of military officers. There is the further proposal that Citizen Force trainees should retain possession of their rifles when they have finished their period of training. The reason for that has not been explained. Whilst  Senator Hannan  was speaking I asked, by way of interjection, whether the rifles were to be used to shoot polar bears in the Northern Territory. There is a rumour afloat that the sheep  in  the Western District of Queensland have developed venomous tendencies, and show an inclination to bite people, rendering it necessary to provide the citizens with  rifles to enable them to protect themselves. There is also the rumour that in a dry corner of New South Wales, where fdr years the crops have been very poor, the rabbits have become vicious, and the proletariat should be given rifles to shoot them down. Honorable senators opposite should rise in their places and tell the world why the party to which they belong has in its platform this important plank that the trainees shall retain possession of their rifles. Is it so that they may be armed in the event of an outbreak of civil war? Perish the thought! Honorable senators opposite are actuated by a spirit of comradeship, and would reject as base and unwarranted the insinuation that there is -any possibility of their followers levelling rifles at their fellowAustralians. 
They claim to believe in the brotherhood of man. Such protestations by them amount merely to lip service. Men have been sent from the Trades Hall in Sydney to learn the conditions that exist in Russia. Who is providing the funds for such an expedition, and what is the real reason for it? Australia must be allowed to run its household in its own way. We should rid ourselves of the idea that this country does not need defending. Until the other fellow shows an inclination to hold out the olive branch, we should not make it possible for the liberties that we now possess to be taken from us. We on this side are keenly anxious to hear honorable senators opposite expound the defence policy of the Labour party. What do they propose to do? What do they expect the other fellow will do? I presume that they have a defence policy of some kind, even though they argue that every man should be at liberty to defend his country in the way that best suits him. My reading of history has taught me that sooner or later every country has had to defend itself, no matter what policy or social order it possessed. Unless Australia is to be the single exception to -that rule, we shall need to be up and -doing. We must cast from us this contemptible substitute for a defence policy that is offered to us, and that even its greatest champions will not explain. When we receive the ultimatum that our White Australia policy, or something else, is obnoxious to another country, and the warships of that country appear on the horizon, I suppose honorable senators opposite and their friends will raise the red flag, and say, " This will save us." When the enemy sees the red flag, it will surely throw its guns overboard! Perhaps our friends will hoist a report of the proceedings of the Third Internationale, or those who are more piously inclined may raise the Sermon on the Mount. In such a case the gun* of the enemy would surely be silenced ! No army would bear down upon our shores, no one would attack us, in those circumstances! Let us not be so foolish. If other countries were as peacefully inclined as Australia, and showed a friendly feeling towards each other, instead of glaring at each other in a warlike attitude as Russia has lately been doing Avith other countries, I could understand the attitude that is taken up by honorable senators opposite. But we must not sacrifice our liberty by an adherence to a policy that is not shared by other nations less advanced than we are. 
My purpose in rising, however, was to refer to a far more important matter than the duty of honorable senators opposite, who have been elected to high and responsible positions to speak their minds, and suggest measures that will best secure the safety of Australia. I desire to refer to what is happening in the industrial field. In the. sphere of legislation we can lend a helping hand in advancing the interests of the nation as a whole. I ask that the Commonwealth Government shall come to the assistance of the gold-mining industry. That industry is now, and has been for some time, in a bad way. In 1914, 2,050,000 ounces of gold were produced. By 1923 the production had shrunk to 700,000 ounces. The decline in the number of men employed directly in gold mining in Australia was almost as great, the figures being 29,000 in 1914, and 11,000 in 1923. The men who lost their employment in the industry during that period had to seek a livelihood in other directions. On a previous occasion I had the honour to put before this Chamber the case of the gold-mining industry. I then gave facts and figures which led the Senate to come to a very definite and praiseworthy conclusion. It agreed that the gold-mining industry was hard pressed, and that it was the duty of the Commonwealth Government to go to its rescue. The industry is in a most parlous condition, and is still going down hill. Those who are acquainted with the history of its progress believe that it can be rescued; that if the Government will lend a helping hand the decline can be arrested, and a good measure of prosperity secured. I remind honorable senators of what the Commonwealth Government did for other industries when it considered that a little governmental assistance would prove beneficial. Hardly an industry, except a few in the rural . section, has not had some form of assistance from the public treasury. I do not argue that that assistance was not warranted. Were I to do so, I should merely stultify my. self, because, on many occasions in this chamber and outside I have urged a recognition of the position in which many industries were placed, and their right to receive help from the Government. The gold-mining industry has for years stood patiently by and lent a helping hand to other industries, and the time has come when its necessities should be considered. I have here figures showing how it suffered during the war period. I do not claim that it should be immune from the liability to assist other industries, but I do stipulate that it has too lone borne that burden without adequate recompense. It has been penalized in the interests of not only Australia, but also that wider family of nations, the British Empire. During the war period it became necessary for the Government of the day to prohibit the export of gold, for the ample reason that it was indispensable in the prosecution of the war. It was required for the purchase of those goods and services which, could not be obtained in Australia, and, gold being the only negotiable element outside this country, it was  neces-sary  to conserve it. But who had to sacrifice themselves to that end? None other than those who- were supplying the gold. Therefore, when the embargo was placed on the export of gold, when the exchanges of the world were "pegged," and when a free market had no further influence on them, the gold suppliers were compelled to accept a lower figure than the price at which they could have sold their output in the markets of the world. The statement has been made that the Government of the day, of which the present Government is a kind of lineal descendant, of which  Senator Gardiner  was a member, and which I supported, gained something from the introduction of the embargo. I have never subscribed to that conclusion, except to the extent to which an explanation was given, namely, that the gain was merely a few thousand pounds. 
-From a perusal of the annual financial statements I have not discovered that there was any verygreat advantage gained over the transaction. As  1  have already indicated? while the exchanges were " pegged," and? an artificial condition set up regarding the value of gold, the producers of that metal, unlike the sellers of any other  commodity,  did not have the free market, limited though it was under war conditions, which other producers enjoyed.. They were obliged to sell at prewarrates, losing the difference between them; and the prices they could have obtained! outside Australia. I am informed. on the authority of the Australian Gold Producers' Association, that during the years 1915-18 the industry lost a total sum of £3,000,000, which represents the difference between the price at which the Government of the day compelled the producers to sell, and that which buyers outside Australia were prepared to give. Thus it is clear that  the  gold-mining industry has some claim on. the community, and particularly on the Government of the day, for assistanceHaving come to the help of the Government, the people of Australia, and the* Empire,, at a critical period - having been placed in an exceptionally disadvantageous position by the action of the* Government in imposing an embargo ora the export of gold, and having suffered! in the interests of the community - there is no reason why this industry should ba penalized permanently. 
It was said that the transport of gold to China, which was the principal buyer at the time, would be a, risky undertaking. During that period], however, Japanese boats were trading between Austrafia and Eastern countries, and there were ample opportunities for the export of gold if the Government had allowed that to be done. But the Government did not allow it, for the all-sufficient reason that the gold was required in this country for our own purposes. Australian notes are useless beyond our own borders. Their face value dies at our boundary lines, unless there is something to support them in the shape of either gold or goods. Therefore, the gold producers were placed in the exceptional position of having to suffer serious losses owing to the necessities of Australia during the war period. China was free to buy gold during the years 1915, 1916, and 1917, and was one of the chief purchasers during that period. China did not enter the war until 1917, and while it remained a neutral nation it would have purchased our gold, had the producers been free to export it, at a price very much more profitable than that received by them.Had our gold producers been in the same position as the producers of wheat, wool, fruit, and dairy produce, enjoying the enhanced values arising out of war conditions, they would have benefited to the extent, as I have already said, of £3,000,000. There are many reasons in addition to those T have cited for giving some belated assistance to this much neglected and patient industry. The arguments, it is true, have been worn threadbare, but some of them will bear repetition. 
Ample justification for giving some assistance is contained in a statement by the Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page)  appearing in to-day's issue of the Melbourne  Age.  Under the heading " Protection for All " the Treasurer is reported to have stated in Adelaide that "While the rest of the community was protected the primary producers must receive protection." I know of no better phrase' to describe the gold-mining industry than that of primary production. Those engaged in it go to the unknown spots of Australia, and under all kinds of difficulties, adversities and besetting dangers, bring to light this precious metal  to  the great benefit of some who engage in this hazardous occupation, but to the greater benefit of the community at large. We remember what the discovery of gold did for Western Australia, and incidentally, for the whole Commonwealth. In the early nineties Western Australia was a neglected, and by some people, a despised part of Australia; but when gold was found there a complete change was wrought. The western State became a magnet that attracted a large population from all other parts of Australia, to the great and lasting benefit of those who took part in the rush.  New  homes were found for over 100,000 workless people. Many men arrived in Western Australia " stony broke," as the result of experiences in the other States, and recovered their vanished good fortune. Subsequently, when the gold-mining industry underwent a period of adversity the prospectors, always a superior type, and mostly from the eastern States, turned their attention to other forms of primary production. The result is that to-day that State is within measurable distance of an annual output of wheat approaching 30,000,000 bushels, although when gold was discovered' there it was importing wheat and flour. I could recount instances in your own State,  Mr. President,  of the discovery of gold having led to the agricultural settlement of large tracts of country. The huge pastoral areas in the Kimberley district, and other northern parts of Western Australia. owe their settlement to the discovery of this precious metal, and Australia has reaped great benefit thereby. 
I shall outline briefly a few of the other reasons to be advanced in favour of the claim I am making. The first is that it is a white man's industry; it promotes and encourages the White Australia policy, and we are entitled, therefore, to call upon the national policy of protection to be put into operation in its favour. If we are to protect other industries by tariff advantages to the exclusion of the gold-mining industry, I say plainly, that we shall not be doing a fair thing to this all-important  industry  which is the parent of many others. I have already referred to its effect on Western Australia, and I remind honorable senators of its influence in a similar direction in the eastern States, where armies of young men on relinquishing gold mining turned their  attention  to other industries and made them profitable. No one can say that gold  mining  in the Commonwealth has come to the end of its tether. Far from it.  A-  long as there are districts that are not tho-i roughly prospected, and, indeed, not well known, and as long as the hardy pioneer is willing to go to them, gold will be won. Bm under present conditions sufficient inducement is not held out to these men. They will calculate the chances of success many times before taking the risk of discovering further fields. Therefore, the industry needs adequate protection and encouragement, especially from the Government of the day.  Remembering  the experience through which the industry has passed during and since the war period I maintain that it has not received that assistance from the Government to which it is entitled. Any  other  industry in Victoria and New South Wales, for which half a dozen sponsors in the form of members of this Parliament can be found, can secure Government assistance, but the gold-mining industry is too far removed from the Seat of Government to obtain the benefits meted out to industries that are carried on under the eyes of those in authority. The gold-mining industry is one whose home is essentially in the back-blocks.  It  belongs to all the States. There is no State of the Commonwealth that is not a contributor to the gold production of the Commonwealth. It is true that the contribution of Western Australia is in the neighbourhood of 70 per cent., which may change, but those of us who are large-minded enough to let our eyes wander beyond the boundaries of our States realize that if good can be done to any one State, especially in a pioneering industry, the benefit it creates is not confined within the boundaries of that State, but necessarily overflows into the neighbouring States with a consequent advantage to the whole of the Commonwealth. If we can keep a number of men in the inland areas, we are making our position stronger and giving more scope to the whole community. The gold-fields of Western Australia buy the products of Victoria. Goods to the value of £4,000,000 or £5,000,000 are annually sent from the eastern States to supply the requirements of Western Australia, and the goldfields of that State are very substantial contributors to the amount that is thus paid to the people in the eastern States. Consequently, if we can induce a large number of consumers to go to those parts of the Commonwealth that are least known - the Northern Territory, Northern Queensland, Western Australia, and western New South Wales - it will be all the better for those who supply the requirements of those consumers. 
What is needed is to give a bonus of £1 an oz. on gold produced, that is to say, a bonus of 25 per cent. If we were to suggest that 25 per cent, was sufficient assistance for some other industries, what would the sponsors of those industries say? They would not even look upon those who made the suggestion as friends. They would declare that such meagre help would mean starvation for them. Yet the percentage which they would reject is all we want for the gold-mining industry, and that only temporarily. If we could get only that amount of encouragement which many industries in Australia are disposed to refuse, and which many others are constantly moving members of this Parliament to have increased, we should make a most excellent showing, and return to the people of the Commonwealth an ample reward and profit. I have already stressed the fact that by assisting the gold-mining industry we would create labour in sister industries. 
In the past the Senate has shown itself sufficiently sympathetic, broad-minded, and economically advanced to recognize the position of gold-mining by heartily supporting the proposals I have put before it. I have reason to thank honorable senators for that support, and if the form of help for which I am asking is given, I hope that I shall have a further opportunity of thanking them. There is an old saying that " hope deferred maketh the heart sick." Here is an industry that ever since the closing days of the war has been told to live on hope. It has been trying to do so, but it is gradually dwindling and dwindling until compared w;th its former robust outline it has almost reached the  vanishing point.  I think we are entitled to give it that small form of encouragement that has been asked for by those who are intimately connected with its control. I could stress the increased area of activity that would be created by the giving of this bonus. There are in the Commonwealth quite a number of what are now known as abandoned mines. For want of a little friendly assistance, or for want of striking a rich vein in their underground parts, because the ore got too poor to pay,they have closed down. There are innumerable mines in Queensland with their toes, so to speak, almost at the paying limit, but they have had to close down for the lack of that sympathetic help for which I am asking. 
We should not allow this condition of affairs to continue. We are entitled to ask ourselves some pertinent questions. Has this industry done anything for the nation? The answer must be that it has done something for the nation which all the other industries put together could not do. Has it suffered by befriend ing the nation ? The answer, again is that it has unmistakably suffered by so doing. Will it benefit by getting this form of assistance ? The answer is that, as other industries helped from the Commonwealth Treasury with the consent of Parliament have given a very creditable reply in due course, in the shape of increased activity, so also we believe that the gold-mining industry will do likewise. Then the next question is whether it is proposed to' withhold any form of assistance. My answer is, " If it is, why is an industry that in the past has fathered so much prosperity for the Commonwealth singled out for a special form of severity and discouragement?" It is safe to say, on the authority of men who are engaged in the industry, and who haveweighed up the possibilities of further development, that there are millions of tons of ore lying in the bowels of the earth that, by means of this bonus system, could be brought to the surface, with a consequent increase in the carrying capacity of the interior and a further consequent direct reflection on the general prosperity of the whole community. If we could only keep men working lowgrade ores, it would be better for all concerned. Men seeking work could be employed. More employment would be afforded to those engaged in subsidiary industries and in supplying the necessaries of life to the men employed in goldmining. There is no warrant for any person to say that the gold-mining industry is coming to the end of its existence. On the contrary, we have the assurance of those connected with the industry that if this form of assistance is given a new era of prosperity will open up and long con tinue. That is not an. extravagant statement. Not only would it open up a new era of prosperity for the. industry, but it would also bring great benefit to those employed in other interests, thus increasing the general prosperity. A basic industry, such as gold mining, needs to be preserved, otherwise other industries on the superstructure are bound to suffer. 

 Mr. Bruce has said that . what Australia chiefly wants is "men, money, and markets." Stimulating the gold-mining industry on the lines suggested by myself and others would go a long way towards supplying those three prime essentials of the country. . If we can only ensure profitable employment in gold mining, men will come here to engage in it, new money will be created, and new wealth will be discovered'; but that can be brought about only by the granting of this bonus. The industry supplies a valuable home market, giving a more ample reward to those people who are producing the requirements of the mining community than is given by any other industry. 
During the war the silver producers of the United States of America helped the nation in a very praiseworthy way, and the American Government, simply obeying the desires of the American people, subsequently came forward, and said to the silver producers, " Since you have helped us through our trouble, we will in turn help you." The form of help was to raise the price of silver to an artificial level above what the world's markets would give. That action placed within reach of the silver producers of America something like £50,000,000. Japan has recently raised the price of gold for the purpose of encouraging gold mining. Japan, that has risen from the lower levels of advanced economics, has recognized the necessity of doing the very thing that is virtually proposed in Australia. We do not propose to increase the price of gold in the market. All we ask is that an opportunity shall be given to bring within the profitable zone the latent wealth in many of the abandoned mines of Australia. I feel that the Government will do something in the matter ; I feel that it should have done something earlier than this. I recognize that previous Governments of varying shades of political thought have neglected the gold-mining industry because those associated with it have been specially patient and have not asked for anything until now. When I use the word "now" 1 apply it to the period from a few years after the war until the present day. We have asked and asked, and  we  are still asking. No one can contend that the industry has not conferred on the nation a boon and benefit. It is acknowledged that no other industry has done more for the Commonwealth. Therefore, in the spirit of fair-play and gratitude, we should be prompted to come to its aid. It is quite clear that unless something is done it will die. It is equally clear that millions of pounds of wealth will remain where it lies to-day, dormant and useless, and not brought to light and not availed of for the benefit of the whole community unless a helping hand is given. 
While we are endeavouring by the giving of bonuses and Customs protection to help industries in other spheres of activity in Australia - it is acknowledged that if only a dozen men are employed in an industry they should be given the benefit of increased protection - we have equal warrant for doing something fair, just, and substantial for the gold-mining industry, which has done so much for the nation in the past, but which is now, unfortunately, in a bad way. Those who are acquainted with mining in Australia know that there is nothing more calculated to make one downhearted than to see a deserted mining township with empty houses, poppet heads, reduction plants, and everything ready to be utilized, as soon as new discoveries of payable ore are made. We know from calculations that this can be found and will be found if the . Government treat the gold-mining industry as it has treated all other industries. Although I come from the western State, I hope it will not prejudice my case in the least. So long as we can maintain a body of men engaging in an industry on a profitable basis, it is better for all concerned. Therefore, I trust that honorable senators will not confine their consideration of this subject to the mere fact that if a bonus is given on the production of gold, most of that bonus will be paid to the western State. I dislike making comparisons, but, when the Meat Bounty Bill was before this chamber, and we were told that the bulk of the assistance would go to the so-called beef barons of Queensland, there was no opposition raised. It was recognized by all that something must be done to save the meat industry of Australia at a critical period. Every other consideration vanished. All political arguments 'and sophistries were blown to the wind in the face of ' the stern necessity for doing something for the meat industry in the Commonwealth. The fact that 75 per cent, of the amount voted was likely to go to Queensland did not prevent me or other honorable senators from cheerfully supporting the proposal, because we were of the opinion that assistance could be given only in that direction. We are now asking for similar treatment, and for additional reasons which are specially applicable to the mining industry, in the belief that the Government, in giving this matter immediate consideration, will look sympathetically upon the mining industry of Australia. If it does, it will have acquitted itself in the way it should; it will have recognized, if only in a small degree, the service the industry has rendered to the people of Australia, and, indeed, the British Empire. 
On a former occasion honorable senators stood solidly behind the proposition which I placed before this chamber. I now thank them for the action they took when I introduced a deputation to the Prime Minister consisting of members of all political parties. I wish also to thank  Senator Grant  for continuing his speech as he did on that occasion, without calling attention to the lack of a quorum^ so that honorable senators generally might take part in the deputation. On that occasion the Prime Minister's room was practically filled with honorable senators in favour of the proposal,  and we were then encouraged to hope. Certainly the Government has agreed to remit certain taxation, but the relief afforded is not what the commissioner's report makes it appear to be. The returns from gold mining are very small, and the taxation gathered is therefore small, as will be seen by a full investigation of the position*, Whilst I am thankful for the slight assistance given and for the sympathy shown, those engaged in the industry cannot allow matters to rest where they are. They earnestly ask for the payment of a bonus in order to get the industry back on its feet, which will be of great benefit to the whole of the people of the Commonwealth. 
.  -  I am indebted to  Senator Hannan  for introducing the question of defence, but, before referring to that topic, I should like to support what he has said concerning the position of the Deportation Board now sitting in Sydney. I am not going- to complain of the attitude being adopted, because every decent citizen must feel that it is a degrading action on the part of the Government to file a charge against certain individuals, and then to allow Ministers and others to endeavour to prove such charges at public meetings. The action is so indecent that I shall not mention it further. I do not expect anything better from this Government. 
If I did not know  Senator Lynch  as well as I do, I should imagine, from his utterances concerning the Labour party and its defence policy, that he has become an arrant hypocrite and a humbug, but, knowing the honorable senator as well as I do, I would not level such a charge against him. If he is the honest man that I believe him to be, he should., instead of attacking the Labour party and its defence policy, attack this Government. It is the culprit. The honorable senator has challenged the Labour party to produce its defence policy. He says that the policy of the Labour party to-day does not compare favorably with the policy of the Labour party in the good old days when he was a member of it. On looking along the front bench on this side of the chamber, however, I see  Senator Grant, Senator Barnes,  aud  Senator Findley,  all of whom were members of the Labour party in " the good old days." It has lost the magnificent services of  Senator Lynch,  but it still has magnificent blood in it. Let us see what is being done by the Government of which  Senator Lynch  is now a supporter. But before doing so, I intend to quote from the official report .of the proceedings of the Australian Labour party at the tenth con- ference, held at the Trades Hall, Melbourne, on the 27th October, 1924. This is not a secret publication. It is the report of the latest conference. Nothing was done in secret. 
This report has been circulated. If  Senator Lynch  wants to know what is in our platform, I shall hand him a copy of the proceedings. It is not a confidential document, but one issued for the information of the public. In this publication I find, under the heading of "Defence," "Adequate home defence against possible foreign aggression." If there was not another line in the Labour party's defence policy, that which I have quoted would be all comprehensive.  Senator Lynch  is now supporting a government which is making no pretence at adequate defence. There is no military authority whose opinion is worth anything who Will claim that we have an adequate defence system for Australia, although governments of which  Senator Lynch  has been a follower have spent £30,000,000 since the Peace Treaty was signed. 
The word is all-embracing. It means everything needed for defence against possible foreign aggression. I shall deal with our defence policy and shall quote the military authorities' charges against this Government for having no adequate defence policy. 
This "crowd" - I mean those who govern the country to-day - has spent £30,000,000 since the war, and we are now worse off than we were in" 1914. 
I can. I shall take, first of all, the statements of  Sir John  Monash, who is a recognized authority on defence, and shall quote extracts from his speeches. He said - " The Air Force was a sham." " There were no tanks." "They had no Mills bombs." " There were not enough munitions in the country to last 24 hours."  " Conditions in regard to the defence of Australia were most unsatisfactory. Things were going to pieces. ... It is a deplorable thing to realize that the men we are training to-day could not be adequately equipped. ... In my opinion, the position of Australia in 1924 is not as favorable, as it was in 1914. The present compulsory system of training Australian youths is farcical." Those are extracts from different published speeches of  Sir John  Monash. 
The last quotation was published in the  Sun  on the 1st May, 1924. 
These are his words - " In my opinion, the position of Australia in 1924 is not as favorable as it was in 1914." 
In regard to defence, and the Minister knows that the statement cannot be denied. 
The whole of the speeches are in relation to defence. 
I have taken the statements word for word from  Sir John  Monash's speeches, and have shown what, in his opinion, our position then was in regard to defence. 
I have not the time, and later I presume the Minister will impose further limitations.  If the Minister desires additional details, I shall supply them on the motion for the adoption of the report.   Sir John  Monash has stated that the present compulsory system of training Australian youths is farcical. 
Largely from one speech, but from different reports. Where the reports vary I have quoted them fairly and squarely. I have shown that  Sir John  Monash believes that this Government has made no preparation for defence. 
In the opinion of the authority I have quoted, compulsory training, of which  Senator Lynch  is such a strong supporter, is farcical. If leading military men express such opinions, surely we cannot be blamed if our views do not coincide with those of  Senator Lynch.  Surely we cannot be blamed if we prefer to follow General Monash rather than General Lynch. 
I believe the Labour party is on the right track. 
The policy of the Labour party provides for adequate defence against foreign aggression. That covers everything. 
What else is there to cover ? 
If a distinguished lawyer such as  Senator Elliott  does not understand the meaning of " adequate," it is hopeless to argue with him. 
I shall deal with that matter in good time. I know the Minister would rather have argument than facts. The ex-Minister for Defence  (Mr. Bowden)  emphasized the point that Australia was not prepared to meet an emergency, and that the greatest problems were those of the supply of arm' and munitions. The supply on hand was, he said, very inadequate. He also said, " The coast defences of Australia are in a deplorable condition. The loss of efficiency in the Australian Navy is staggering." 
I shall quote the policy we support. 
Further statements made by  Mr. Bowden  were - " When I came to realize the appalling conditions of the defence of Australia. . . . The greatest problems were those of the supply of arms and munitions. ' The supply on hand was inadequate ... It was no good saying we had seven or eight submarines when those in charge of naval defence knew these were obsolete, and could not be used. . . . The question of airdefence was not as satisfactory as it might be." 
That statement was made when  Mr. Bowden  was Minister for Defence. The latest date is the 14th November, 1923. I shall show from reports the position at the end of 1923, and our present position according to the Inspector-General. 
Yes. I shall show from the Inspector-General's report that the need of officers is great, and that the Government is not doing anything. 
-Andsuch a method would probably be more effective than selecting officers according to their social rank. A distinguished gentleman now doing service for Australia abroad -  Senator Drake-Brockman  - said, "I can say that at the moment Australia could not equip one division, let alone five." That is where this Government has left defence. What has it done since?  Senator Pearce,  when he replies, may be able to show us. Some time ago we were told definitely by  Senator Drake-Brockman  that even if we put one division in the field we could not provide sufficient equipment for it. What has the Government done since then? Nothing. 
The Minister is now trying to find reason for a quarrel with the policy of Labour, not in office, to cover up the ineptitude of an anti- 
Labour Government in office.  Senator Drake-Brockman  went on to say - . 
If we were suddenly called upon to defend ourselves we wouldnot have enough munitions, war equipment, and the tilings necessary to maintain an army for 24 hours. 
This, I remind honorable senators, is the opinion of a high military authority, a general in the late war, and a loyal supporter of the Government. Could the position be worse even with a Labour Government in office? The Government is spending £5,000,000 a year on defence, and this is the result. What is the' use of  Senator Pearce  finding fault with the defence policy of the Labour party? 
Then for the information of the Minister let me state the defence policy of the Labour party - 
) Adequatehome defence against possible foreign aggression. 
Surely, that covers everything - 
Convertible factories for small arms, munitions, and aeroplanes. 
Is not that something very definite for the defence of Australia? 
Air forces, depots, &amp;c. 
Is not that something for defence? Are not these three planks of our policy the very essentials of defence ? Ours is a policy of real defence; that of the Government is mere pretence. 
The Government is not. It is because of this neglect to provide for the real defence of Australia that the public will deal with the Government and its supporters at the forthcoming elections. Why does the Inspector-General, in his annual report, complain of the unsatisfactory state of our defence scheme? 
Letme again state the defence policy of the Labour party, and put the various planks in their proper order - 
Adequate home defence against possible foreign aggression; 
Convertible factories for small arms, munitions, and aeroplanes; 
Air forces, depots, &amp;c. 
Land forces, fortifications, &amp;c. : 
Submarines and adequate above-water craft and mines. . . . . 
Unlike the policy of the present Government, we would not have an army that exists only in the imagination of Government supporters. 
I invite  Senator Pearce,  when he replies, to state in the same way as I have, line by line, the defence policy of this Government, and allow the two schemes to be judged on their merits. The Labour party is prepared to take all practical measures necessary to ensure the defence of this country. 
Because of faulty administration it has broken down. 
I have already stated what the Labour party would put in place of the present scheme of defence. These proposals include land forces, fortifications, &amp;c. Surely that covers everything. 
In the time at my disposal it is not possible for me to answer off-hand every interjection made by the Minister. He knows quite well that the Labour party would not hesitate to put its policy into effect. 
The world has moved since it was adopted. The policy I have so far outlined provides all the essentials for the adequate defence of the Commonwealth. Another plank in our defence policy is - 
Utilization of Bureau of Science and Industry for the purpose of standardization of railway and motor rolling-stock and materials. 
If the £30,000,000 which has been spent on defence proposals by this Government since the war had been expended in one direction alone, namely, the uni fication of the railway gauges, we would have been in a better position to-day to defend Australia. 
What a petty excuse ! If this Government realized its responsibility to the people of Australia in defence matters it would not allow considerations like that to stand in the way. 
The details were fully dealt with by the Labour conference. I am prepared to state my own views on the scheme. 
I cannot do better than remind the honorable senator that when Australia joined with Britain in prosecuting the Boer war this country raised a considerable force of men outside the existing military organization. We could do the same to-morrow if the necessity arose. Again, in 1914, and without conscripting the manhood of Australia, we raised over 400,000 men. 
Apparently the Minister does not wishto discuss military matters in a straightforward manner. He wishes to give honorable senators the impression that the intelligent men who drafted the Labour party's proposal for defence would have no means at their command to give effect to it. 
We would, because under our scheme of defence we should be able to arm and equip our forces; this is something which, even according to the Government's supporters, is not possible at the present time. Let me read, for the information of honorable senators, some extracts from the report of General H. G. Chauvel, InspectorGeneral of Commonwealth Military Forces : - 
Department of Defence, 
Inspector -General, 31st May, 1925. 
The  Hon.  the Minister of State for Defence. 
In accordance with A.M.R 18 (1) I submit herewith the annual report required from the 
Inspector-General of the Australian Military Forces: - 
During the year under review the following developments designed to improve the condition of thearmy have taken place with the approval of the Government: - 
The annual duration of camp training for the Citizen Forces was increased from six to eight days; 
An increase in the period of service in the Citizen Forces from two years (actual training twenty days) to three years (actual training 36 days) was authorized. It was not possible, however, to give effect to this decision during the year 1924-5, as the elder quota of the Citizen Forces trainees had necessarily been discharged on 30th June, 1924 (before the decision was given), in accordance -with the conditions then in force; 
It was decided that, concurrently with an extra year's service for trainees in the Citizen Forces, the training in the Senior Cadets would be reduced by one year, leaving the total duration of service the same as before; 
A commencement was made in the purchase of the requirements of the field army in arms, ammunition, and equipment from funds provided in a special vote. . . . 
This shows that nothing has been done to remedy the deplorable state of affairs complained of by  Senator DrakeBrockman,  by General Monash, and by the exMinister for Defence  (Mr. Bowden).  Again I quote the opinion of the highest military authority in the Commonwealth. 
The Minister is ever ready to misrepresent our policy, in order to cover up the defects of his own administration. What could be more condemnatory of the incompetence of the Government than this further extract from the Inspector-General's report: - 
With reference to the purchase of armament and munitions, it is gratifying to note that a start has been made on a definite programme. A sum of £300,000 was approved, in addition to ordinary maintenance votes, towards the development of the army. Owing to reductions in the ordinary Estimates by the Treasury, and to various commitments approved by the Government, legitimately considered progress, and therefore not included in ordinary estimate, the sum available for the munitions programme was £205,795. Although such a commencement is gratifying, it is my duty to point out that the extent of the progress made in this respect was, in comparison with the requirements, relatively insignificant. 
That is the opinion of the InspectorGeneral regarding the Government's preparations for munitions supply. Although on all hands it was admitted that the position was deplorable, the expenditure was only £205,000. 
That is an old story. The sooner the Minister deals with facts the sooner will he realize that the measures which the Government has taken are insignificant. If ever an Opposition was so strong that it was able to prevent a Labour government from giving effect to its defence policy, Labour would hand over the government of the country to it. 
I am sorry that  Senator Elliott  has not had as wide an experience of Labour men as I have had, and cannot, therefore, speak of them with accuracy. The report proceeds - 
Requirements of the Army in regard to ammunition, field, pack, medium, heavy, and anti-aircraft guns, tanks, and other armament and equipment necessary to enable it to meet a modern enemy on equal terms, are great. The cost of all this essential equipment is very considerable, and, assuming that the programme of armament and equipment purchase is limited to the amount which was made available during the year, the requirements would not be met for many years. 
What is the good of honorable senators opposite saying that we have not a defence policy when their own InspectorGeneral says that at the rate at which they are going it will take many years to make that preparation which is essential for defence, and in the meantime we are at the mercy of any foe that might attack us? Surely honorable senators realize that effect ought to be given to the suggestions of their military advisers ! If I were Minister for Defence I would carry out theproposals of my military advisors or relinquish office. 
I would do one of two things. Either I would provide for the defence of Australia along the lines suggested by experts, or have no de- fence policy. There would be no pretence about me. 
I do not know ; but it invites intelligent discussion. Major-General Chauvel goes oh to say - 
This is undoubtedly a very serious state of affairs. I feel that the issues in this matter cannot be made too clear. There is a choice between the provision within a reasonable time, at a very considerable cost, of the material necessary to enable the Army to become an effective instrument of defence, or, on the other hand, of taking the risks which must accompany the non-provision of this equipment, which most certainly cannot be improvised after the outbreak of war. If the latter choice be taken, it must be remembered  that,  not only will the Army be not fully ' effective as a modern instrument of defence, but its personnel - citizens of this country - will, in the unhappy event of their being required to undertake active operations in the defence of Australia, be subjected to the unfair handicap and the certainty of increased loss of life which inferiority in armament^ and shortage -of ammunition must inevitably entail. 
That is not an indictment of Labour's programme; it is a charge by the InspectorGeneral against the administration of this Government since the termination of the war. 

 - Senator Pearce wanted me to say how I would call into existence an adequate force, and train, arm, and equip it, under the proposals devised by the Labour conference in 1924. I tell him that in defence matters the workers of Australia will be as honest as they are in their everyday lives. Those who endeavour to make them appear dishonest will be held accountable when the opportunity presents itself. I have shown honorable senators that the Inspector-General has reported that if Australia were called upon to defend herself at the present time she would do so under a great handicap and with much unnecessary loss of life, notwithstanding the fact that this Government has had charge of defence matters for the last seven years, and in that time has expended upon it no less a sum than £30,000,000. A further paragraph in the report of the Inspector-General states - 
Whether this country is or is not able to meet the cost of the provision of modern equipment on an adequate scale, or whether, if it is able to do so, it would be correct policy now to undertake considerable expenditure in that connexion, are matters upon which it is not within my province to express an opinion. But it certainly is my duty to make perfectly plain the consequences which are liable to ensue, for the information of those who are responsible for deciding the policy to be followed. 
Could more condemnatory language be used? If he spoke more strongly, the distinguished general would be deported by the Government. Honorable senators may decide to support the Government whether it be right or wrong, but should injury be caused to Australia because of the Government's ineptitude they will have to accept their share of the responsibility. The Government may satisfy them by saying, "Bad as our policy is, it is better than Labour's." That is their concern. The Labour party's attempt to originate a defence policy is the most intelligent that has yet been made in Australia. I shall read a little further from the report of the Inspector-General. He says: - 
Should it be decided to take up the question of the provision of armament, ammunition, and equipment in an effective manner - 
The inference is inescapable, that it has not yet been taken up in an effective manner - the attainment of the object in view should, as far as possible, be achieved by, or at any rate be accompanied by, a policy designed to make Australia self-contained in the production of war material. 
That is what the policy of the Labour party aims at. The Government is doing nothing in that direction. The report proceeds - 
How far it is possible, within any calculable period of time to place Australia in this position, I am unable to say, but that object most certainly cannot be achieved without a very groat extension of the limited programme which, with the funds at its disposal, the Munition Supply Board is now capable of undertaking. 
The board is handicapped by lack of funds.' Although we have many hard fights in this chamber, do not honorable senators think that the question of defence could be lifted out of the sphere of party politics? Why does, not the Government realize that it cannot increase its length of life by attempting to make political capital out of the defence programme of another party ? The programme of the Labour party provides for an adequate measure of defence by land forces, aeroplanes and submarines, and the construction in Australia of cruisers. 
No platform has yet contained details. 
To me, " adequate defence" means a comprehensive, all-absorbing defence policy, that will enable Australia to be defended. 
The Labour party would have cruisers built in Australia; its policy provides for that. I can do no more than any other member of the Labour party towards carrying out its programme, which provides for "submarines, and adequate above-water craft and mines." I can say with certainty that if cruisers are necessary for the defence of Australia they will be built by the Labour party in Australia by Australian workmen. 
Because the information was published in Scotland that the contract for the construction of the two cruisers was let by  Mr. Bruce  whilst he was in England. Although the statement was denied by  Mr. Bruce  and other members of the Government, its truth was proved. The Labour party wanted the cruisers to. be built in Australia. In the event of war Australia will need to be self -contained in the matter of the supply of military and naval requirements. The great military experts will have to get that fact firmly fixed in their minds. Once our shipping yards had turned out cruisers, it would be a simple matter to turn them out again. But if, on the other hand, we were dependent for our cruisers on yards in other countries, they would have to run the risk of a 13,000-mile trip before we would have the benefit of their services. That is too great a risk. There are highly qualified naval men who say that the day of the big battleship is past. I take it that that applies also to the cruiser. Rear-Admiral Sims, giving evidence before the Congress committee that investigated aircraft, said - 
I think the Navy should build light aeroplane carriers instead of cruisers. It is a curious thing, but you cannot alter the minds of naval conservatives. You have to shed their blood before they will change, or they hang on until disaster comes. With adequate air and submarine protection no nation can bother us. 
A book has recently been published, written by a man who, drawing largely on his imagination, visualized a great war between Japan and America. 
I have already explained that the Labour party opposed the construction of the cruisers for Avhich  Mr. Bruce  let a contract while he was in England. A Scottish paper, of which I saw a copy at the time, published a statement before  Mr. Bruce  returned to Australia, that he had let the contract to a Scottish firm. I. have in my hand an authority greater than the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Opposition - the authority of Labour in congress, which decided in favour of submarines and adequate above-water craft and mines. There is no getting away from that wording. I tell honorable senators opposite they are on a very sticky wicket when they endeavour to prolong their political existence by discrediting the defence proposals of the Labour party, and covering up the fact that after seven years of ofiice the present Government has not provided a defence system worthy of the name. Theirs is a policy of pretence, not of defence. Rear-Admiral Simsalso said - 
Despite the Washington Conference, the race in armaments still proceeds. Japanhas 30 cruisers, built or building, and has laid down about 80,000 tons of submarines since the war. . . . 
There will never again be naval expeditions carried across the sea to an enemy port, the establishment of an advance base on ais coast, and the pouring in of soldiers and supplies. This has been rendered impossible against any country that has adequate air and submarine forces. If our coast is protected by airplanes and submarines, no ships can reach our shores or land troops. The success of transporting 2,000,000 men to France furnishes no precedeut. It was not a landing on enemy territory. The German submarines were not operating in home waters. They had no air forces to act as eyes, to convey information or to co-operate in attacks on our convoys. It would have been an entirely different proposition if we had attempted to land on enemy territory occupied by enemy forces through hostile waters held by enemy submarines operating in conjunction with an aerial fleet. 
Rear-Admiral Sims is a man of considerable ability and high moral courage. We know of the stand that he has taken on other matters.  His  belief is that, with aircraft and submarines, America will be safe. I have referred to a work of fiction dealing with a war between Japan and the United States of America. The writer evidently possesses a considerable knowledge of military and naval matters, or he has had the assistance of some one else who possesses that knowledge. From the beginning to the end of his book he does not describe one action as having been fought in either Japan or America. Why? Because no writer of fiction would be read if he supported the theory that a battleship could come within range of aircraft or submarines. The most ill-informed person knows that; ignorance upon the subject exists only in the minds of the members of the Government and its supporters, and it will be some time before they reach that stage of enlightenment. 
Surely we can sometimes be sane in discussing the defence of our country. If I made a high admiral of an honorable senator opposite, and placed him in charge of a squadron of battleships, would he venture within 200 miles of the Australian coast, supposing that this country was well equipped with submarines ? 
I should expect an answer like that only from a most courageous man like the honorable senator who interjected. 
That little strip of water was protected in an admirable manner. The honorable senator was doing excellent work at the time at the front, and perhaps had not as good an opportunity to follow the progress of the war and all that took place as I and others had. I call his attention to the fact that, when the war broke out, Britain was as well prepared with her navy as Germany was with her army, but she never succeeded in landing her troops on the enemy's coast. 
Yes ; and how great an assistance it would have been had aeroplane and submarine forces been developed then to the extent that they are now! The late Admiral  Sir Percy  Scott, of the British Navy, referring to aerial fleets, submarines, and mines, said - 
Another bogy put before the Australians is that, on account of their enormous coast-line, they must have battleships. That is just what they do not want. If the waters of all countries are protected by submarines, all waters will be wrong waters for battleships. 
That was the opinion of a high authority on naval matters. 
Of course there is, but this officer's opinion always appealed to me. Another British officer, Admiral Kerr, remarked - 
The Australian line of defence obviously comprised aeroplanes, submarines, and torpedo boats, against which no hostile fleet dare approach within 200 miles. 
I do not intend to go into that question. Labour may take the wrong view, as  Senator Greene  suggests, but we take the side that appears to us to be right. RearAdmiral Hall, another British naval officer, said - 
We had a grand fleet with a preponderance of nearly two to one over Germany alone. We had the assistance of the American, French, Italian and Japanese navies, and yet our main naval purpose - the protection of our trade - could not be carried out. The Navy itself could not put out to sea without being itself protected by flotillas of little quick-turning devil-dodgers. 
Lieut.Commander Rawson remarked: - 
It needs little technical knowledge to see that Australia must concentrate on submarines, mine-layers, fast torpedo boats, and air craft Sixteen submarines can be built forthe price of one battleship. No extensive dry docks are required. Flotilla warfare is a form of defence particularly suitable to our needs and our resources. 

 Senator Pearce wishes to know why the Labour party does not rush in to spend millions of pounds on giving work to Scottish people. I love the Scots, because of Robert Burns. They gladly accepted our. orders for the building of cruisers, and passed a motion of thanks to Australia; but I do not love them sufficiently to say that Australia can alford to waste £5,000,000 or £6,000,000 to provide work for the people of Scotland in their own shipyards while our own are left idle. 
I think that even  Senator Lynch  will admit that the Australian Labour party has a defence policy which it believes to be in the best interests of this country, irrespective of party considerations. If he will not admit it, I am sorry for him. 
We have the statement of General  Sir John  Monash that the policy of compulsory training is farcical. I entered into an argument on one occasion with a highly intelligent military officer. I adopt many different means of eliciting information that is useful to me as a senator. He proceeded to show me bv lists of names, ages, and measurements how lads taken in hand at the age of twelve years had been physically developed, as he 'said, by means of military training. At twelve years of age some of them were 5 ft. 1 in. in height and had a chest measurement of 29 inches. At sixteen years of age they were 5 ft. 8 in. in height, and had a chest measurement of 37 inches. He wanted me to believe that that development was entirely due to military training. That is the way these men argue. But if we had gone into some of the exempt areas I could have shown him lads who, through living under healthful conditions in the country, had made, without military training, far more rapid physical development than those employed in overcrowded factories in the cities. But the officer in question was adamant. He contended that his argument was unanswerable. Military training, in his opinion, was the entire cause of the physical development obtained. 
If  Senator Lynch  does not know it, I do, that this military Government that is now in power takes whatever Great Britain gives it. I remember when  Senator Pearce  wished to place on the statute-book of the Commonwealth all the regulations under the British Army Act since the time of King William IV. He wanted to make them the statute law of Australia, merely because they came from Great Britain. The one thing that the party opposite will not take from Great Britain is the goods and the machinery and the other articles that Australia needs. I wanted to build the cruisers here, because in the event of war it would be of great value to have shipyards already established.  Senator Sir Thomas  Glasgow will agree that the Britisher is not quite as tall as the average Australian. The regulations of the British Army stipulated that a soldier should march in paces of 30 inches, and when those regulations were applied to Australians, the authorities didnot have sufficient brains to realize that our lanky Australians required to take longer paces than the Britishers. It was amusing to think that they were expected to take little "cock sparrow" steps instead of adopting the good Australian swing. I take  Senator Sir Thomas  Glasgow's smile as an indication that I have put my finger on a matter which shows the foolishness of following Britain in everything. The Labour party is not now responsible for the defence of Australia, but the National party has wasted - and I use the word after due consideration - £30,000,000 for which it has nothing to show. When the Labour party is returned to power, factories will spring up in every State. It will employ all the miners that have been thrown out of work owing to the Protectionist policy advocated by  Senator Lynch.  The Labour party will give employment to the canecutters in Queensland, and in every State men will be employed in factories, making those things that are required both in peace and war. Do honorable senators opposite understand what preparation for defence means? Every worker in his every-day employment is fitting himself to be a defender of the country perhaps a good deal more effectively than he would do if he were marching to and fro, and performing various military evolutions. Thus the every-day life of the community as actual preparation for war, and 90 per cent, of the people are compelled to undergo that preparation in the course of earning their livelihood. But what is the use of it 5f we have no equipment? It would be a great incentive to the lads of to-day to take more kindly to military training if no distinction was drawn between commissioned and non-commissioned officers, and if they knew that the highest positions in the force were open to those that have the necessary ability. 
No, and nobody knows it better than the honorable senator. 
Under the conditions of war the best men were required, but in peace times those occupying the highest positions in society are promoted. Merit is not taken into consideration. When I practised military manoeuvres in a partially paid corps, we had a coloursergeant who was the brains and driving force of the regiment. A vacancy arose for a commissioned office, and as the men wanted to see the best man appointed they decided to equip the colour-sergeant to' enable him to accept commissioned rank. The colour-sergeant was only a carpenter, and the captain, who was an architect, said that he must draw the line at a tradesman. And draw the line he did, for he would not recommend him for the vacancy. I did not feel hurt over it. It was the custom then just as it is the custom to-day. 
It is, and the honorable senator knows it. 
Then so much the worse for the country that is governed by a man who will not recognize what is happening. Look how costly the Naval College is to the parents of the cadets. 
So do I. I met the father of one on a tramcar recently. I happened to know him through looking after his son  when  he was travelling to Jervis Bay. When I asked him how the lad" was getting on he replied, "It is the worst day's work I ever did. It is so costly that it has half ruined me, and has quite ruined him." Social position must cease to be a factor in military and naval appointments. Merit alone should be the guiding qualification in a democratic country like Australia. Honorable senators laugh at the idea of an election being the best method of obtaining the best. Sometimes when I look at honorable senators opposite I doubt it myself. Would an elective system for the appointment of officers prove unsatisfactory ? I hardly like to quote Russia. 
The officers elected by the Russian soldiers proved to be equal to any that had been appointed under the Czarist regime. The Russian Army, under its elected officers, has frequently caused invading armies fitted out by aggressive and powerful capitalistic .nations to retire beaten and shattered. I do not regard it as an absurdity to abolish the distinction between commissioned and non-commissioned officers. The only absurdity is that this distinction should be permitted to remain in a democratic community like this. 
That a noncommissioned officer may not easily become a commissioned officer.  Even if one does rise from the ranks and  become a commissioned officer the service is never at rest until he is " booted out." 
I should like to go through the list of officers to test the accuracy of the honorable senator's assertion. The fact that a man is a noncommissioned officer should be a recommendation for his fitness for promotion. 
A man should be able to rise gradually, step by step, on the ladder of promotion to the highest rung. Surely Labour is not to be ridiculed for proposing that that should be made possible. As it is to-day, a commissioned officer would choke or get a fit of apoplexy if he found himself dining at a table with a non-commissioned officer. Commissioned officers and noncommissioned officers dine separately, and they have separate tents. Commissioned officers have batmen to clean their boots and accoutrements. Non-commissioned officers clean their own. The Labour party believes in - 
Recognition of principle of election of qualified candidates as officers.  
There is nothing wrong with that principle in the Labour party's defence policy. It also believes in - 
Citizens on completion of training to retain arms delivered to them during training. 
I think it was  Senator Lynch  who asked whether the purpose of this was to arm somebody against something. I venture to say that there is no section of the people of Australia that cannot be trusted with arms. If every man in New South Wales fit to carry arms was given a rifle, the peace, order, and good government of the State would be as good as it has ever "been. The other day I attended a sale of surplus military material, and I saw 10,000 first-class leather grenade carriers, probably worth from 2s. to 5s. each, sold for £5. By the way, the money spent in submitting this material to auction came out of loan funds. Would it not have been better to give this material to the men who formerly used it? 
Any man with brains would realize that the revolution is on now. What becomes of the obsolete rifles ? Are they wasted ? If we gave them to the men who' used them they would be kept in order, and if at any time it became necessary to defend Australia a big percentage of these rifles would be available for use. 
I know that a lot of good work is done in that direction, but I remember when one could buy an old military rifle for 5s. 
Rifles become obsolete when a manufacturer, having supplied a large order, invents a new type. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.30 to 8 p.m. 

In concluding my remarks, which, under the Standing Orders I must do within 20 minutes, T wish to say that I addressed  myself  to this question in consequence of the newspaper articles, and the statements made by  Senator Lynch  and others, in which an attempt has been made to prove that the Labour party has no defence policy. Therefore, my chief aim in discussing this question has been to explain our policy, and allow it to be considered on its merits. The policy of the Labour party was adopted at a conference, which in all essentials .resembled a public meeting. It consisted of delegates from the various State Labour organization-', and when the policy drafted, at that gathering is taken as a whole - I do not say that there are no spots on it - I think it will be regarded as a masterpiece of draftsmanship. It shows clearly that, although Labour is not in office, it has a very clear idea of the best methods to- adopt for the defence of Australia. The Labour party's policy provides - 
Adequatehome defence against possible foreign aggression. 
Convertible factories for small arms, munitions, aeroplanes. 
Air forces, depots, &amp;c. 
Land forces, fortifications, &amp;c. 
Submarines, and adequate above-water craft, and mines. 
Utilization, of Bureau of Science and Industry for the purpose of standardization of railway and motor rolling-stock and materials. 
Roads and railways. 
That the Commonwealth Constitution bc amended to include a condition that no Australian can be conscripted for military service overseas. 
Amendment of Defence Act to secure - 
Deletion of all clauses relating to compulsory training and service. 
Abolition of trial by court martial where civil courts are available. 
No penalties to bc imposed except in pursuance of explicit enactment. Intended regulations to be publicly advertised, and regulations to have no effect till before both Houses, either of which may veto. 
Limitation of professional soldiers to necessary instruction and administration and working staff. 
Abolition of military oaths. 
Abolition of distinction between commissioned and non-commissioned officers. 
Recognition of principle of election of qualified candidates as officers. 
Salute and other useless discipline to be abolished. 
No employment of, or interference by, soldiers in industrial disputes. Punishment of Ministers and other persons responsible for breach of this provision. 
Citizens on completion of training to retain arms delivered to them during training. 
Defence Acts to require annual renewal, as in England. 
No raising of forces for service outside the Commonwealth, or participation in any future overseas war, except by decision of the people. 
That is everyline of Labour's defence policy. I do not say that it is above criticism. If I were on the opposite side of the chamber I am sure I could find something in it to criticize. I ask honorable senators, however, to consider the policy as one adopted by men holding varying opinions, but which meets the views of all the delegates. Under such a policy we would have defence instead of pretence such as we have at present. It is pretence to suggest that Australia can be protected without arms, munitions, or factories. The next important branch of defence involves the question of battle-cruisers. I have already quoted prominent naval authorities who strongly advocate the use of aeroplanes, submarines, and torpedoes, which are largly taking the place of battleships. In the days of Nelson the sailors threw grappling irons on board the vessels of the enemy, but those days have goneforever, and new discoveries and invention have brought about a new type of fighting vessel.We are now in the transition stage in which aeroplanes, submarines, and torpedoes can be used most effectively, and to properly defend Australia provision should be made for adequate supply of aeroplanes, submarines, &amp;c, and for the establishment of munition factories. That is what Labour proposes. Expert mechanics should also be trained in the manufacture of the articles likely to bc required in the event of war. Are we to wait until war is declared before such factories are established? It appears to me that the Government is waiting for another war before it does anything. Since 1913 to the present year Governments similar to the one now in office have been in charge of the defence of the Commonwealth., and all they have done has been tospend money, for which they have practically nothing to show. I believe in factories being established in every State of the Commonwealth, because magnificent machinery may, as a result of one bomb, be thrown out of action. The man is not yet born who can prophesy the conditions under which the next war will be fought. The last great conflict was an object-lesson of the changes which have come about, and even since the signing of the armistice inventors have been devising new means of conducting future wars. The bayonet is a deadly and effective weapon if troops ever get together, but nowadays wars oan be fought for twelve months without bayonets ever cominginto use. The members of the Labour party say that we have gone as far as we should ir participating in overseas wars, and that we must reserve the money hitherto wasted on a pretence at defence in providing means for the real defence of the Commonwealth. If it is thought that we should assist in conflicts overseas the opinions of the people should be obtained by means of a referendum. War was declared between Germany and Great Britain on the 4th August, 1914. What happened in Austraia ? As a general electionwas held on the 5th September a referendum could have been taken then, if necessary. 
Of course they could, because as I have stated, ar: election was held about five weeks after the declaration of war, and a referendum could have been taken to decide whether the troops should serve outside Australia. After years of experience I believe the people would have voted solidly in favour of doing so. The Minister should remember that two years afterwards, when he was head of the Defence Department the Government endeavoured to conscript certain people. 
That may be so, but the Government, from their point of view, foolishly called up the men first. The men who were in camp had a vote, and the proposal was naturally turned down. 
Of course the Government had power, as any government should when the security of the country is at stake. As a result of the general election in 1914 the Government was defeated, but the Labour Government which came into power did not interfere with the despatch of troops. In fact, the new Government continued the defence programme more vigorously and with a wider outlook than that of its predecessors. In consequence of the statements published, and the utterances made here from time to time concerning the defence policy of the Labour party, I have included it in full in  Hansard,  so that newspaper writers, parliamentarians, and others will know what our defence proposals actually are. The Labour party, if in power, would not carry on the present inefficient training methods. The Inspector-General of the Commonwealth Military Forces now advocates that the height at which trainees shall be accepted shall be increased by 1 inch. What difference does it make if a soldier is 5 ft. 5 in. or 5 ft. 6 in. ? It is also proposed to increase the chest measurement. 
And compulsory speaking also assists in expanding the chest. On this point the InspectorGeneral states - 
The physique of a certain proportion of the Citizen Forces, especially Infantry, has been noticed to be extremely poor, and, while it is realized that the personnel are all very young and undeveloped, it is obvious that some will never be able to attain a satisfactory physical development. It is not economical to train personnel who would bc rejected as unfit for active service. It has been decided to raise the Citizen Force medical standard by 1 inch in height, and½ inch in chest measurement. 
In actual warfare  Senator Needham  should be quite as effective as I, and a shot that would hit me would probably miss him. 
I believe that small active men can be just as useful as big men. The point I wish to make is that, according to this authority, we must add half an inch to the standard height, and an inch or two to the chest measurement of our manhood to ensure efficiency. 
I cannot say. When war broke out it was fixed at 5 ft. 6 in. Subsequently it was brought down by stages to 5 ft. 3 in., and towards the end of the war there was practically no standard height at all, because every efficient man was needed, irrespective of his inches. Events have disclosed that our whole system of training is a mistake; that it is pretence, not defence. The Labour party has evolved a scheme which, without waste of money, will ensure the adequate defence of Australia. 
Compulsory training, and the whole of the existing defence organization will have to go. Were I in the position occupied by the present Minister for Defence  (Sir Neville Howse)  it would be scrapped* from end to end, and be replaced by a scheme which, not being handicapped by faults disclosed in the administration of the present system, would prove efficient without asking Australia's sons to go outside its borders to defend it. 
I have often listened with great pleasure to  Senator Gardiner,  but though I did not have the privilege of hearing the whole of his speech this afternoon and this evening, I do not think I ever listened to an utterance that was so utterly illogical or so bristling with inconsistencies. It is not my purpose to detail the whole of these inconsistencies. It would take far too long to do that. But I cannot help wondering whither the honorable gentleman is drifting. Just now he applauded the defence platform of the Labour party, one plank of which stands for the abolition of compulsory training. It is not very long ago since I heard  Senator Gardiner  claiming for the Labour party the sole authorship of that system. No other party, he said, had had a hand in it. 
I can also recall the time when  Senator Gardiner  assisted  Senator Pearce  in the administration of the act. 

 - Senator Gardiner has not told us that. On the contrary, he claimed for the Labour party all the virtues which the system of compulsory training possesses. In the speech which he has just delivered, the honorable gentleman did not advance one single reason why it should be abolished. But I will explain how it is that the honorable senator has changed his attitude. He has been obliged to fall in behind the communists who are really leading the Labour party to-day. They are the people who have laid down the law for  Senator Gardiner,  who, it would appear, is prepared to eat all his words, and to do what his masters, the communists, tell him he must do so. 
I am glad to hear the honorable senator's admission that he is merely obeying the behests of his masters. 
I have not yet seen the necessity to eat my own words on our defence policy, as  Senator Gardiner  has. However, I do not believe for an instant that  Senator Gardiner's  heart is in this new policy. 
I am sure the honorable senator believes, in his heart, that Australia should take its place, and do its part, in any scheme for the defence of the Empire. He knows that, from the point of view of Australia's interests, to put it on its lowest plane, it would be most foolish for Australia to restrict defence proposals to Australia's shores, as has been suggested by the Labour party. The honorable senator claims that Australia's defence should be entrusted to vessels of comparatively short range of action, to air forces, and such other preparations as we may be able to make within our own borders. 
Of course. 

 - Senator Gardiner is the champion in the Senate of freetrade. He believes that we should import everything that we require. He has not told us how this free' interchange of goods can be carried on without the adequate protection of our trade routes. Does he suggest that we should offer no contribution towards the defence of trade routes that are so vital to the existence of Australia? The honorable senator also spoke of the establishment of factories for the manufacture of munitions. I cannot reconcile this portion of his speech with freetrade views which he has enunciated so often in this Senate. 
If  Senator Gardiner  thinks that foreign battleships, for the protection of trade routes, are better than our own, then I have nothing to say to him on that subject, except that I would prefer to rely upon our own battleships. The honorable senator has told us that he believes in the establishment of factories for the manufacture of munitions. So do I. He drew a vivid picture of factories here and there throughout Australia, all engaged in this important business. He did not tell us, but he inferred, that all these establishments are to be government factories. 
I do not know if the honorable senator has ever attempted to visualize what sort of an industrial organization would be required to establish and staff government factories for  the  manufacture of munitions necessary to carry on a first-class war. 
I am endeavouring to argue this scheme from the point of view adopted by  Senator Gardiner.  He suggests that these government factories should be established in times of peace. 
Ail I can say is that if his policy were adopted the whole of the revenues of the Commonwealth would not be sufficient to maintain the factories. I am quite satisfied from the more or less cursory knowledge I possess, through having presided over the department, that it would be utterly impossible to create an effective war machine along the lines suggested by the honorable senator. He agrees, of course, that we must have highly trained officers. Since this training must extend over a number of years, some time must elapse before we could gather together an effective staff of government employees. However, I shall leave to other honorable senators the privilege of instructing  Senator Gardiner  on this phase of his defence policy. It is very evident that he needs instruction. But I should like to impress upon the honorable senator that it is utterly impossible, in times of peace, to create a munitions organization, staffed by government employees, sufficient to meet war requirements unless the Government is prepared to spend practically the whole of its revenue, year after year, in the production of manufactured articles necessary for the prosecution of war, but which, in the event of no war arising, having no commercial value, would have to be periodically scrapped. The reason is that you- are not engaged in war every year, and it would1 be necessary  to build, up an organization sufficiently large to deal with war conditions. An examination proves how utterly impossible the proposal is. 
My reason for rising to speak was not" so much to answer  Senator Gardiner's  contentions as to say a word or two about this very essential part of our defence scheme.  Senator Pearce  and some other honorable senators know very well that the foundations have been laid of the nucleus of a munitions organization. I believe that those foundations have been well and truly laid. It is extraordinary that  Senator Gardiner  has no knowledge of what has been and is being done. From his remarks one would judge that he does not' know that the very large sum of money which for many years has been voted annually has been expended in the establishment of munitions factories. Those factories have not been designed to meet the whole of the requirements of the Commonwealth in time of war. Anybody who has given a moment's real thought to the matter must know that it would be utterly ridiculous to attempt such a thing. What we require very urgently, however., is the nucleus organization round which we can, if necessary, in time of war gather the whole of the industrial organization of Australia, and convert our great industrial machine into huge munitions factories. 
No. I asked the honorable senator whether .he proposed that these should all be government factories, and he said that he did. 
I say that that is utterly impossible. 
What we can do is to set up a nucleus organization in which we can train men, and around which can be gathered the whole of the great industrial establishments. Something has already been done along those lines. We have quite a number of Government factories that are being carried on under nucleus conditions - that is to say, they are not turning out year by year a vast quantity of munitions, which if there is no war will ultimately have 'to be scrapped, but they are turning out sufficient to meet the ordinary routine requirements of defence and training. And they form a training ground, too, for artisans, in the factories themselves, and afford possibilities for that training to be extended to outside establishments, capable of being converted into munition factories in time of war. There are two directions, it seems to me, in which that policy needs to be developed. As soon as possible we should classify all the great industrial establishments, so that in the event of war we should know immediately the purpose for which each was best fitted and equipped, even though it be only the making of a buckle. There are other things necessary in addition to guns, high explosives, and the hundred and one things that are required for actual warlike operations. That matter should be carefully gone into so that if war were declared to-morrow the Government could say to one factory, " Do this," and to another factory, "Do that." 
That is not a plank in the platform of the Labour party. 
If it is, then I agree with it. There is another matter that the Government might very well consider. There are quite a number of absolutely vital munitions of war that we are not manufacturing or attempting to manufacture. Take, for instance, the internal combustion engine. We have not a factory that is making or is able to make that. If war broke out tomorrow and our sea communications were cut, there is not in Australia a factory that could make a motor car or an aeroplane. 
I am not referring to the assembling work. At the present time we have not the organization that would enable us to turn out many essentials in time of war. Under  Senator Gardiner's  policy those factories could not be established in Australia. The honorable senator believes in freetrade, not in the principle of establishing. Australian industries. Several thingsthat in time of war would be absolutely vital to Australia are not being made here because it would not, pay anybody to make them. I sometimes tremble when I think of what might happen to Australia if international complications arose rendering it impossible, for the time being at any rate, for the British Navy to protect our shores. Stripped temporarily of that security, does any honorable senator think, with the enemy knocking at our doors, it would be possible for us to undertake, under those conditions, the manufacture of many of the things we do not produce to-day, which would be absolutely vital to our existence? Take aeroplanes', for instance. 
The engine, which is the vital part of an aeroplane, cannot be made in Australia, because we have not a factory equipped for the purpose. The same thing applies to motor cars. Motor lorries and all classes of motor transport are absolutely vital to the defence of Australia. 
How long would that conversion take? If we set to work to-morrow in any factory to make an aeroplane engine, at least two years would elapse before one could be turned out that would be airworthy. 
I am coming to that point. Let us look at the experience of America. Our industrial development has been a mere nothing compared with that of America. How long did it take that country, after it entered the war, to put into the heavens an aeroplane equipped with an airworthy engine that had been made in America? 
The Minister's interjection has answered the question put to me by  Senator H.  Hays. I believe that the time is coming when the Government should seriously consider whether, as a part of the defence policy of Australia, something cannot be done to establish on definite lines the motor car industry. I do not say it should be established as a government-owned concern, because in that direction we should court disaster. In order to succeed, we must secure the bestbrains that the industry possesses; we must bring to Australia those who have the requisite experience and knowledge, and are prepared to make the machine for us. 
If the honorable senator can find private citizens who are prepared to own battleships and maintain them for the benefit of the community, I shall back him up. There is no analogy between the making of a motorcar and the construction of a battleship. I believe that the time has come when this problem should be seriously considered. I yield to no one in my desire to see Australia taking anactivepart in the general scheme of Imperial defence. It is as much our duty to do that as to defend this country. But, reduced to its last analysis, Australian defence is the defence of Australia. We shall be merely living in a fool's paradise if we continue along the lines that we are now following, knowing that we do not possess the organization necessary to manufacture many things that are vital to the defence of Australia. The only way in which it can be done is to induce some firm or firms to come to Australia to engage in the manufacture of motor cars. They should be given a liberal subsidy. I would make it an absolute condition of that subsidy thatthey should also turn out a certain number of aeroplane engines every year. We should then have a neucleus organization around which it would be possible, if the necessity arose in time of war, to build up a great industry. One serious trouble is the testing of raw material. The quality of raw materials and their characteristics varying enormously in different parts of the world. At Maribyrnong a great laboratory has been established by the Commonwealth Government in connexion with its munition plant, and one of its duties is the testing of material of all kinds that may be required in time of war. This is most necessary work, and I believe it is being done thoroughly as far as the funds available will permit, but until factories are established to give practical effect to the discoveries that have been made, full advantage will not be derived from the operations. I hope that the Government will give this matter its urgent consideration. I realize that it has ahundred and one important problems to deal with, but if there is one thing that is more necessary than another in connexion with our defence system, it is the establishment of these industries on a commercial basis. It would be a waste of money to establish government factories, for it is essentially a commercial undertaking. 
One must recognize the difference between a battleship - or even a commercial ship - and a motor car. 
Yes; but if I had to choose to-day between spending £500,000 a year for the building up of the air force, and spending a similar sum in subsidizing the manufacture in Australia of motor vehicles, I would advocate the latter, for I believe that motor transport is vitally important in facilitating the mobilization of troops and the transport of supplies. In the event of war the railways alone would be. unable to cope with the country's needs. 
Yes. 
It is also a plank of the National party's platform. The establishment of the vital industries to which I have referred would naturally bring to our shores a great deal of capital and a large number of people. It would be of material assistance in carrying out our immigration policy. If we do not sooner or later take action along the lines I have indicated, we may have cause to regret it. 
I desire to support the attitude of the Labour party as indicated by  Senator Gardiner  and others. I am interested in the proposal by  Senator Greene  for the establishment of the nuclei of factories for the purpose of building aeroplane engines and motor cars in Australia. It is gratifying to hear an honorable senator opposite putting forward a strong plea for the protection of Australian industries. I take it that such factories would be subsidized by the Government. It should be patent to everybody that if it is necessary to establish works for that purpose, it is equally desirable that any vessels required for the Australian Navy should be built in the country. Australia's defence policy should be broad and bold. Senators Elliott, Glasgow, *and Thompson have served with distinction in the Great War, and they may be regarded as having had considerable experience of what Australia's requirements in time of war would be. But I point out that, should peace prevail for the next ten years, the opinion of these honorable senators, no doubt, will then be regarded as out of date. The opinions of admirals of the British Navy have been cited regarding Australia's defence requirements. One honorable senator said that they had not been permitted to take part in the recent war, the inference being that their views were of little value, but the same argument may be applied to the opinions of present-day naval officers in years to come. If Australia is to have a Navy built and equipped by Australians, we should  lose no time in establishing shipyards, and if it is necessary to build the smaller engines of destruction in this country, it is equally desirable to build cruisers here. The two cruisers for which, orders have been sent to Great Britain will be attached to the British Fleet, and, in the event of their being sent to China- 
If they were sent to China they would not be policing the sea to keep our trade routes open. 
I am aware of that. 
It has been said that £30,000,000 has been spent on defence since tho armistice was signed, and we have very little to show for it. I want to know how that money has been expended. Has it been devoted to the establishment of factories along the lines recommended by  Senator Greene,  or has it largely been used in providing the salaries of highly-paid officers? 
The Melbourne  Age,  of the 5th January, 1924, in a leading article referring to the Prime Minister and his Government, stated - 
The increasing inconsistency- of his actions not calculated to serve as an inspiration to the robust spirit of the Australian nation, while his speeches on defence, and in justification of his actions are unlikely to impress even the feeblest intelligence. 
That journal is not a supporter of the Labour party, and its comments indicate that the present Government has done little for the defence of Australia. In regard to economic preparedness, the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce),  when speaking in Sydney at a meeeting  of the Chamber of Commerce, said - 
The development of our industries, trade, and commerce is of more importance" to the defence of Australia than are the armies of Australia. 
I would go a long way with the right honorable gentleman in that direction. The building up of the industries of 
Australia is one of the main essentials in its defence, and it is the duty of the National Government to see that more industries ave built up for the protection of the country. Lord Jellicoe, speaking on this subject, said - 
A sound policy must aim at promoting Australia's capacity to make or produce everything essential to its own protection. 
According to the  Age  of the 31st July, 1924, the importance of industrial power was stressed by Lord Jellicoe in his Australian report. The same journal, in its issue of the 20th November, 1924, said that the Chamber of Manufactures had made the suggestion that Australian industries should be organized to make them convertible for war purposes. One of the main points of Labour's defence policy is the establishment and organiza.tion of industries which, in times of peace, can manufacture the things necessary for the development of the country, but which, in times of war, may be so converted as to turn out everything essential and necessary for war. When  Mr. Bowden  was Minister for Defence he said, on the 11th August, 1924 - 
At present there was only one unit of the Air Force in Australia. They had a tremendous lot of gift equipment from Great Britain, but a great deal of it was still stowed away in the packages in which it came to Australia two or three years ago. 
Prominent naval authorities, such as  Sir Percy  Scott, Admiral Kerr, BearAdmiral Hall, Commander Rawson, AdmiralFullar, Admiral Sims, Admiral von Scheer, and others, are of the opinion that the main things essential for the defence of &amp; country, especially a country like Australia with a huge coastline, are aerial forces, submarines, mines, torpedo boats, and such like. That is the opinion of men whoknow what they are talking about. 
As I am a layman, I do not profess to know anything about the subject, but I accept the opinions of men who are experts. As a member of the Labour party, I stand for the defence of Australia. If Labour was in power to-morrow, it would have to supply a proper defence force for the protection of this great country, and what that force should consist of is purely a matter of opinion. 
No. I could quote quite a number of expert opinions in support of Labour's defence policy. 
This afternoon  Senator Lynch  dealt very exhaustively with the need for the payment of a bonus on gold production. I want to follow on where he left off, and. appeal to the Government to do something to assist the great mining industry in Western Australia, which is practically languishing for want of help. When it was pointed out this afternoon that the gold mines of Western Australia lost, £3,000,000 through not being able to export gold,  Senator Pearce  interjected that the only profit the Commonwealth got out of the business was about £11,000. It would be interesting to know where the balance went. Had the gold-mining industry been permitted to export its product as other industries could do, it would have been wealthy enough to-day to carry on operations. I think it is time the Government did something to put it on a sound footing. I make no apology for quoting at length the views of  Mr. Richard  Hamilton, one of the leading mining managers of Kalgoorlie - 

 Mr. Richard Hamilton,  president  of the Chamber of Mines of Western Australia and general manager of the Great Boulder Proprietary Gold Mines Limited, is at present in Melbourne, and is conferring with representatives of the gold producers of the eastern States on the best means of checking the present serious decline in the gold output of the Commonwealth, and in considering proposals designed to bring about a revival of gold mining. In an interview,  Mr. Hamilton  said that the gold mining industry in Australia was declining at such a rate that unless something was done to assist it, not many more years would pass before it became practically extinct. This might appear to the general public to be due to the gold " petering out," but the rate of the decline in the average grade of the ore was not nearly so pronounced as the falling away. The output figures would suggest that Western Australia possessed the largest auriferous area in the world, the belt having a length of 1,000 miles and a width of 250 miles, while the grade of ore at present being treated averaged about 12 dwt. to the ton, which was higher than any other in the world. Taking into consideration the quantity treated, and bearing in mind that £152,000,000 worth of gold had been won in that State alone, it would be absurd to conclude that the gold resources of Western Australia, or the Commonwealth for that matter, had been ex- hausted.  lt was not the poorness of the ore which had brought about the decline, said  Mr. Hamilton.  It was due almost entirely to the change in the economic conditions which had taken place during the last eight years. The changed conditions were directly reflected in the costs of production. Official statistics showed that the average mining costs throughout Western Australia had risen from 19s. per ton of ore in 1910 to 38s. a ton in 1924. Under the present conditions, said  Mr. Hamilton,  practically all tho mines at Kalgoorlie would exhaust the available profitable ore inside of five years, and would have to close. Apart from the mines at present being -operated in Western Australia, there were over 4,000 abandoned leases, all of which had produced gold. A large number of these were abandoned, not because the gold gave out, but because of the general difficulties and increased costs when Worked to the water level, while more attractive fields were -seeking capital. Many of these smaller but promising prospecting properties were neglected. The deepest workings at Kalgoorlie were at 3,000 feet, while in the Ivanhoe Mine the continuation of the ore had been proved to a depth of 4,000 feet by diamond drilling. Its value was estimated at from fi dwt. to 8 dwt., and the lode still continued under foot. In Western Australia alone, said  Mr. Hamilton,  5,000 men were employed in gold mining, while fully 30,000 of the population on the mining fields were dependent on the industry. These figures were less than half of those ruling tcn years ago.  Mr. Hamilton  expressed himself as certain that there was a great number of new gold-fields awaiting discover, but these wore much more difficult to locate than the original fields, as in most instances they would need to be looked for in flat country, more or less covered with overburden. How to arrest this decline and bring about a general mining revival, said  Mr. Hamilton,  was a question that had received serious and studied consideration in Western Australia during the last year. As a result, mining and other authorities there had reached the conclusion that tho payment by the Commonwealth Government of a bonus on gold for a definite tarin of years would have the desired effect. ' This, it was contended, would result in tho gradual replacing of the present fields by new ones and the opening up of leases prematurely abandoned iri the early days. In submitting these proposals to the Western Australian sectional committee of the Commonwealth Board of Trade, the Chamber of Mines of Western Australia suggested that after any company had returned the whole of its capital expenditure to its shareholders, cither with or without the aid of the bonus received, it should then be allowed to retain from the bonus ls. per ton on the ore treated, and return the balance to the Government should the profits in excess of ls. a ton he earned. With regard to individuals, syndicates, or unregistered companies carrying  on the work of gold mining, these should submit annual accounts, and their incomes should be liable to Commonwealth taxation as a private person. 
If the average value of the ore now being treated is 12 dwt. it means that the best of the ore is being picked out to1 enable operations to continue. When that ore is exhausted the companies will have to depend upon 6-dwt. ore, which means, as  Mr. Hamilton  has pointed out, that in five years' time, unless some assistance is afforded in the direction proposed, the mines will be closed down and numbers of business people, who mostly own their own premises, will have to walk out and leave them. With a bonus low-grade ores can be worked at a profit, whereas to-day they cannot be touched. I trust that when the question of giving a bonus on gold production comes before this Chamber honorable senators will give it their sympathetic consideration. 
.- I have listened with considerable interest to the exposition of the Labour defence policy by  Senator Gardiner  and other honorable senators opposite, and the further they have gone the more they have convinced me - and I think most of those who listened to them - that their defence platform is a hollow sham. It may be made to mean anything or nothing, just as their masters may direct. The word " adequate" is used again and again. A more ambiguous' term could not have been employed had the party been advised by the most eminent King's Counsel in Australia to draft a clause to .conceal their real meaning. 
lt may mean a great force or nothing at all. In certain circumstances a considerable standing army might be adequate for our defence, but as we have been told over and over again by honorable senators opposite, and most emphatically by members of the Labour organizations outside, that there is no possibility of Australia being invaded, what in their opinion, was an adequate defence force for Australia might mean no defence force at all.  If honorable senators opposite were sincere they would have moved at the conference some such qualification as " adequate in the opinion of  Sir John  Monash, or Stir Harry Chauvel, or some other recognized expert." But as the platform is now worded, I do not think that honorable senators can hope to delude even the blindest of their followers into the belief that the defence policy of the Labour party has any real meaning. 
A force which could be readily expanded to the utmost dimensions, which could be permanently maintained on a war footing. That is to say, a skeleton force such as the Government proposes; one which could be expanded in the event of war. We should have the nucleus of five divisions of infantry and two of cavalry, which is regarded as being the greatest force which. Australia is capable of maintaining in a state of efficiency with our present population. It would be useless to have a larger organization, because it could not be maintained at effective strength. 
It does not provide anything of the kind. If the Labour party advocated a skeleton force to be maintained by voluntary effort, and the compulsory system to be introduced if necessary, the sincerity of honorable senators opposite would not be doubted as it -is at present. The whole defence policy of the Labour party, however, is a delusion and a sham. At present there is an opportunity for voluntary enrolment, inasmuch as non-commissioned officers in the infantry can extend their service. We have not had any evidence, however, of a desire on the part of noncommissioned officers to prolong their period of service. The Light Horse are recruited on a voluntary basis, but they are not up to strength. If I were Minister for Defence I would advise the Government to introduce a measure under, which we could have a voluntary infantry force as well as a voluntary light horse such as we have to-day. Such a scheme would show in some measure the extent to which we could rely upon the voluntary system. It is all very well for the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Gardiner)  to refer to what was done during the war, but honorable senators opposite must know that what was done then was owing largely to the enthusiasm and patriotism of the men who came forward. Many would not have served on a peace basis, and many would not have been in a. position to serve at all but for the fact that trained men were available in consequence of the compulsory training system. These latter men provided a skeleton force on which the whole structure of the Australian Imperial Force was built up. 
No; we would not have had the officers. I remember an incident which occurred at Broadmeadows when I was instructed to take only men who had had previous training. My recruiting area was the northern part of Victoria, where there had been practically no military forces, and it became apparent to me that if 1 followed my instructions, I should not be able to raise a regiment at all. I told my recruiting officers to interpret their instructions very liberally, but my action was discovered shortly afterwards by my superior officer, who ordered me to discharge all those who had not previously had infantry training. I replied, " If you will allow me three weeks I will discharge every one whom you can pick out as not having had previous training." He agreed, and in three weeks reviewed the battalion, and said that he was absolutely unable to pick out a single man who had not had previous training. He then asked, " What is the use of all this expenditure on compulsory military training to-day?" I replied, " I disagree with your suggestion, because without the compulsory training of officers I could not have presented you with a regiment to-day." We do not hope to maintain anything in the nature of a standing army or even a large militia force, but we hope to keep a nucleus of an army in training and well equipped. With all its faults and shortcomings, I am convinced that the force, as maintained at present, is capable of being rapidly extended into a very large force. Very severe criticisms have been made by the Inspector-General concerning the position, of our present military forces, but these criticisms should be studied with a mind attuned to the military aspect. The Inspector-General and other prominent soldiers have in mind a scheme to keep in training practically the whole of the Australian Imperial Force as it existed at the end of the war, and to send citizen soldiers into camp for three or four months in each year. Doubtless, if we could have afforded it, an efficient force couldhave been provided, which would have been much nearer the InspectorGeneral's idea of efficient military protection than the present force can possibly be. Hadwe done so, however, we should have been charged, and- perhaps rightly, with accepting militarism, and of being stampeded in the way the French and others were stampeded when it was thought that a renewed outbreak of war was imminent. We resisted the proposal, and I think the results have shown the wisdom of our action. We would have been placing a very heavy burden on the people without obtaining benefits commensurate with the expenditure. There are certain degrees of readiness in which a force has to be held in time of peace and in time of war. When in close grips with the enemy the officers and men have to sleep in their clothes and be fully equipped for action; but further back, easier conditions are available. It is so in times of peace. We have to preserve different degrees of readiness, according to the advices received as to the possible outbreak of war. I have no doubt that the Government is kept in close touch with the international situation through the British War Office, and if unsettled conditions developed, our state of readiness could be improved. It is unnecessary to accept the InspectorGeneral's statements literally, and the utterances he has made are doubtless with the intention of preventing us living in a fool's paradise. It would be wrong for him to allow us to go to sleep on the question, and I think that we have done everything in our power towards rapidly placing our forces on a war basis. A good deal has, of course, to be done before that stage is reached, but we are not yet at the point where we must be ready for immediate action. Although there does not appear to be any great danger, or any indication that any other nation has any intention of attacking us, that should not prevent us perfecting the necessary preparations. But what is the position which honorable senators opposite have reached? They appear to desire to abolish the military force altogether for the time being; I warn them that if they allow the vital spark to become extinguished, it will be a very difficult task to kindle it again. 
I understand that the Labour party do, unless by some means, such as exceptionally high pay, it, is proposed to encourage men to come forward to train. If the Labour party's policy provided for compulsory military training, if necessary, there would be some hope. It is said that we should organize our factories, so that we would be in a position in the event of war to mobilize the forces ofindustry to provide the necessary munitions of war. 1 understand that the Munitions Board is already engaged upon that task, and has proceeded to a considerable extent in the direction indicated by the Leader of the Opposition. To establish factories, however, throughout Australia is unnecessary and absurd. When I was instructed to proceed to Broadmeadows in 1914, we did not possess even a watercart. I remember introducing General Forsyth to the officer in control of the agricultural machinery works controlled by  Mr. H.  V. McKay, in order . to obtain some assurance as to the provision of ordinary munition, baggage, and water carts for the forces. At that time that was the only firm which had a sufficient accumulation of seasoned wood in Australia with which to equip the forces with the vehicles required. The ultimate result was that the whole of the transport equipment for the First. Australian Division was turned out by that company at very short notice. It has been said to-day that  Sir John  Monash has stated that we have no Mills bombs, but such bombs are easily manufactured. I decline . to believe that any ordinary machinery factory could not readily be converted to the production of these bombs if the necessary plans and specifications were furnished. It would, however, be necessary to provide the explosives. Honorable gentlemen opposite must bear, equally with honorable senators on this side, any blame that . may be attached to the Government in connexion with this matter. They know whence came the pressure when the tariff was under consideration to prevent protection being given to this Australian industry. 
I think  Senator Grant  will recall that the pressure on his own party came from outside, with the result that the manufacturers of explosives in Australia did not get that measure of tariff protection given to many other industries. 
Unfortunately, when explosives were being dealt with in the tariff debate there was an extraordinary conversion of protectionists to the principles of free trade. I remember protesting, perhaps more vehemently than is usual for me, against the absolute folly of denying protection to this industry. I pointed out that under the proposal made to us, instead of depending upon ourselves in this vital matter of explosives we should be dependent, not even upon Great Britain, but upon the product of black labour in South Africa. If honorable senators opposite expect the people of Australia to believe in their protestations of sincerity, they will have toradically amend, their defence policy. 
The debate up to the present has dealt mainly with the defence of Australia. I followed with interest the speech delivered by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Gardiner).  It was a remarkable utterance for one who has occupied a seat in this chamber so long, and who held ministerial office when Australia, in common with the whole of the Empire, was passing through a critical time. The honorable senator outlined the defence policy of the Labour party, but failed to indicate how the party proposed to give effect to it. When the Leader of the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  asked him how the Labour party intended to raise its land forces for the adequate protection of Australia, he said it would follow the course adopted in 1902, when troops were raised for the South African war, and also during the years of the late great war. Although the honorable senator condemned that system, he could not have paid a higher tribute to its efficiency than by saying that if the necessity arose the Labour party would adopt the same means to raise its land forces. He also stated that, were he entrusted with ministerial office, he would- take the advice ofexpert military advisers. This is exactly what the Government is doing to-day. In connexion with any scheme of defence it is very desirable to impress the rising generation with the great advantages which this country offers to them as citizens of the Empire. This should be a sacred duty laid upon all public men. The youth of Australia should not be instructed that there are only two classes in the community, the capitalistic and working classes, and that necessarily the former is the enemy of the latter. They should be taught to co-operate for the general good of the Commonwealth and for the Empire as a whole. Whilst honorable gentlemen opposite may disagree with Government supporters concerning certain legislation recently passed by this Parliament they should not forget that for many years prior to the outbreak of the war, there was an enemy in this country white-anting its institutions, and endeavouring to bring about its downfall. We should ever be mindful of that danger, and watchful that it does not recur.  Senator Greene  this evening delivered a very interesting and instructive address, in the course of which he replied to many statements made by the Leader of theOpposition. Referring to the proposed establishment of peace factories which, in time of war, could be converted for the manufacture of munitions, he instanced the desirability of encouraging the establishment of concerns for the manufacture of motor cars and internal-combustion engines. These, of course, are essential, but something more is needed. Considerable sums of money have been spent from time to time in the search for oil fuel in Australia. I am not complaining about that expenditure, because, as far as information available to us indicates, the work has been carried out in localities recommended by experts well qualified to express an opinion. But in Tasmania and in some of the mainland States there exist exceedingly rich shale deposits, which with sufficient encouragement could be developed, and should prove of inestimable value to the Commonwealth. Of what use would it be to build warships in Australia, or to manufacture motor cars and munitions, if we were without an adequate supply of oil fuel for our warships and transport vehicles. It may prove a little more costly to exploit our shale-oil deposits, but as their resources are almost unlimited, and as oil fuel is an essential in time of war, the industry should receive substantial encouragement. 
Yes,as is done in connexion with so many other indus-  tries. I hope, therefore, that the Government will give this matter very careful consideration, and agree to assist the shale-oil industry. One of the difficulties up to the present has been to get a suitable retort. I understand that a company will begin operations in the near future. It claims to have devised a suitable process for the extraction of the oil from the shale deposits. The matter is so important that the Commonwealth Government could very well offer a reasonably substantial reward to a company which gave practical proof that it could invent and work a retort which would produce on a commercial basis oil from these shale beds. There is the further question of the big hydro-electric power scheme. It was established to assist what at the time was considered a national industry. I refer to the big zinc industry, which would be indispensable to Australia in time of war. That scheme cost Tasmania between £3,000,000 and £4,000,000, but the Commonwealth did not give the slightest relief in the shape of . a remission of duty upon the machinery that was required. The industry is essential to the well-being of the whole of Australia, and it should have some consideration extended to it. Further developments are taking place, and I urge upon the Government the desirability of affording relief in connexion with the duty on the additional machinery that will be required. The Government should do all it can to encourage the establishment in Tasmania of industries that are made possible by the cheap power that can be obtained. 
I take this opportunity to refer to the timber industry, which, not only in Tasmania, but also throughout Australia is languishing. It is well known that large quantities of softwoods 'are 'being imported into Australia, the average over a twelve-monthly period being at the rate of1,000,000 feet a day. The result is that half our mills are closed down and our workmen have been thrown out of employment.- 
A lot of it is Baltic pine. I am disappointed that the Government did not afford further protection to this industry in its new tariff schedule. 
I do not. I recognize that there is work in which only oregon and similar woods can be used; but our mills and workmen would be kept fully employed if our own timbers were used in the general building trade. 
Yes. The serious aspect of the matter is that each year our imports show a substantial increase, whilst there is a decrease in the use of our own timbers. 
Yes. Protection is the established policy of Australia, and that, combined with the standard of living that has been set up - and to which I take no exception - undoubtedly increases the cost of production. The Government should take such steps as will prevent the wiping out of some of our best industries. 
I do not suggest that we should place an embargo upon the importation of timber. What I say is that protection has increased the price of many articles that are required in the timber industry, and has thus had the effect of raising the cost of production. The Government should follow up that policy by granting adequate protection to this industry. 
Such a comparison could hardly be -made, because they are handling softwoods, whilst we handle hardwood. 
I desire to refer also to the fact that goods, which, in the ordinary course, would by this time have been distributed, are still lying in the holds of overseas steamers, and when they are released they will be subject to thi increased duties provided for by the new tariff schedule. That is most unfair. I am not aware of the view of other honorable senators, because I have not discussed the matter with them. If I remember rightly, a promise was made last year that action would be taken to remove such an injustice. If the he-ld-up of overseas shipping had not occurred, these cargoes would have been landed, and thus would have escaped, the higher duties. I know that it is difficult for a "Minister to determine whether they would have been distributed  immediately  or would have remained in bond for some time. It is, however, fair to assume that a big proportion would have been distributed. The matter is causing importers a great deal of concern, and I  believe  that they have a just grievance. I ask the Minister in his reply to indicate the attitude of the Government. 
.- I do not know whether I should  express  surprise at the attitude which was adopted this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Gardiner).  I have almost reached the stage of not feeling any surprise at an utterance of his on the floor of the Senate. It appears to me that whenever we have before us a measure which contains a reference to expenditure upon our defence policy, the honorable senator immediately seizes upon it as a justification for attaeking  the Government. I listened with keen interest to his vigorous statements, and I could not avoid coming to the conclusion that he condemned himself out of his own mouth. I took the trouble to turn up some of the statements that he made last year. He cannot deny that to-day he adopted the attitude of entire opposition to the spending .of any money on the defence of Australia- 
Excepting only such proposals as he considered were necessary. He vigorously protested against the expenditure of approximately £4,000,000 a year  on  defence, because, he contended, no results were being obtained. Last year the honorable senator  spoke  very strongly against the attempt of the Government to ensure the more adequate defence of Australia by the building of wo cruisers. 
The honorable senator stated that in a few years' time those cruisers would be obsolete, and ihat, consequently, the money would be wasted.  His  argument was that there was no need for cruisers, and that we should rely upon submarines and aircraft and the manhood of Australia. On the 7th August, 1924,  Senator Gardiner,  according to  Hansard,  page 2906, made this extraordinary statement: - 
If then we are to start with a serious defence scheme, and if we are to spend £4,500,000 on cruisers, what better proposal could we have than to start building cruisers now,, even if they cost £10,000,000? 
That shows clearly that the honorable senator believed in the Government's policy of defence, but the fly in the ointment was that the Government was not prepared to spend £10.000,000, when it could obtain a corresponding measure of defence for £4,500,000. I always advocate avoiding the closing of the door after the steed has departed, and I think that the Government is to be complimented upon its defence policy. To-day we have heard severe criticism about the money being wasted, but I challenge any honorable senator to take up the budget proposals for this year and show where any substantial saving could be effected with safety in connexion with the Defence Department. The honorable senator urged to-day that the whole scheme should be scrapped, but would he scrap our military college? Would he not retain, at all events, the nucleus of an army in the shape of a staff? Does he suggest that we should abandon our munition factory? I defy any honorable senator to show that we could afford to scrap any of these services, and yet maintain what is necessary if Australia is to be defended. There must be an expenditure in connexion with the central administration. The following, items show how the proposed expenditure for 1925-26 is distributed:- 

<graphic href="111332192509090_39_2.jpg"></graphic>

I desire to refer to another item in the bill.  Senator H.  Hays referred to the necessity for the Government giving every encouragement that it fairly could to the shale oil industry. I have taken keen interest in the efforts of the past few years to locate flow oil in Australia and in its dependencies, and I deeply regret that so far the efforts have not been successful. I am inclined to think that we should devote more attention than we have in the past to the extraction of oil. from our shale deposits, which are practically inexhaustible. 
That is problematical. If as much vigour had been put into the development of the shale oil industry as into the attempt to discover flow oil, probably by this time machinery would have been invented which would have insured the economical production of shale oil. After all, the success of the undertaking depends largely upon the yield that can be obtained from the shale beds. I know one locality where bulk samples of shale have produced 130 gallons to the ton. The average bed would probably yield from 30 to 40 gallons. We have millions of tons of oil-bearing material in Australia that will produce high yields.  Senator H.  Hays was correct in saying that if we could ensure the production of oil on a commercial basis, even though it might mean a large expenditure, the cost would be more than justified since it is highly necessary for Australia to be independent of outside sources of supply. 
There is another matter of which  Senator H.  Hays reminded me when he mentioned the hydro-electric power now available in Australia. We should do all we can to encourage the building up of local industries. In every State unemployment is rife, but we have such a productive country that the sooner we add materially to our population the better it will be for our primary producers. Great benefit would result if we did everything possible to attract the attention of people with capital to what Australia can offer to-day. I draw attention to the enormous value of the cotton textile fabrics imported into the Commonwealth. They represent nearly twenty million pounds annually. During the last few years it has been proved beyOnd doubt that Australia can produce cotton on a commercial basis. Cotton that is equal to any in the world has been grown in Queensland.. In Papua the cotton industry will be eminently successful from the point of view of quality, and I have no doubt that it has come to stay in Australia. Seeing that we have established factories in the Commonwealth for the manufacture of woollen textile fabrics and other woollen goods, it is just as imperative to turn our attention to the spinning of cotton and the manufacture of cotton textile goods. It is appalling to learn of the ignorance regarding Australia that exists in Great Britain among some of the head officials of the large cotton textile manufacturing concerns. Last year the Governor of Victoria, when paying a visit to England, visited the large cotton textile works of Horrocks, Crewdson  and Company. During his tour through the works he referred to the fact that cotton was being produced commercially and satisfactorily in Australia. The  chairman  of directors of the company admitted that, but said that there was no possibility of ever entertaining the idea of cotton spinning and the manufacture of textile fabrics being undertaken in Australia. . It, had been proved beyond doubt, he said, that the industry could not be carried on in such a hot,, arid climate, because the cotton would break in the spinning process. But, I ask, is Australia, an island a hundred miles in circumference with only one climate  1  There are hot, arid portions, and there are also cold and foggy portions, where the humidity is very great. I could mention one portion of Australia where the conditions are almost the same as obtain in Lancashire, the Cottonopolis of the Empire. I refer to my own State. There are portions of Tasmania where 'every requisite from a climatic point of view is to be found. I do not contend that these conditions are essential to the successful carrying on of the industry, but I know that they are highly desirable, and, when they are present, manufacture can be much more economically carried on than if machines for producing humidity have to be employed, as they are in some parts of the world. Tasmania has pure water, suitable atmospheric conditions, and. best of all, absolutely cheap power. My desire is to impress upon the Government that the High Commissioner's Office in London should never weary of rectifying the errors of opinion existing in Great Britain regarding Australia. 
Yes. If we entered only into the manufacture of plain cotton fabrics, grey and white, bleached and unbleached, suoh as calicoes and sheetings, we could give employment to many hundreds of operatives. As far back as 1873 or 1874 grey calico of an excellent quality was manufactured as an experiment at Ipswich, in Queensland, but those engaged in the venture had not much capital, and also for other reasons they could not extend their operations. I ask the Minister to bring this matter before Cabinet with a view to awakening some enthusiasm in the High Commissioner's office on this matter, because the statements reported to have been made can only be harmful to Australia. Efforts should be made to rectify the false impression that evidently exists as to Australia having a hot, arid climate, which would never permit of the manufacture of cotton textiles. 
I support what  Senator H.  Hays has said about goods in ships' bottoms held up owing to the present unfortunate shipping strike. I do not know whether the Minister for Trade and Customs has any power to deal with the matter in the direction suggested by the honorable senator, but when I was coming through Launceston yesterday a deputation of business men waited upon me, and pointed out how unfortunately they were situated. They knew that portions of cargoes had been landed and cleared, and placed on the markets, and that they' were goods of the same description as those on which they would have to pay a higher, rate of duty than had been paid by their more fortunate competitors in the same lines of business. I ask  Senator Pearce  to get in touch with the Minister for Trade and Customs to see if there is any possibility of having something done to relieve this unfortunate situation, even if it be necessary to amend the Customs Act, to prevent a. recurrence of it in the future. I trust that this will be the last occasion on which we shall hear such unjust and unfair criticism levelled against the defence policy of the Government. 
I shall bring the remarks of Senators H. Hays and Payne under the notice of the Minister for Trade and Customs. This afternoon  Senator Hannan  complained that certain statements were being made about two gentlemen who are now appearing, before a board in Sydney. I remind the honorable senator that the board is not a court, and that while certain statements may have been made, about these two gentlemen, they themselves have not since the case commenced hesitated to make statements reflecting on the British Empire, and most offensive to every true Australian.  Senator Hannan  rebuked the Prime Minister for statements he is alleged to have made, but he has not a word of protest against the gentlemen who are making the statements to which I have referred. 
I have just a few brief words to say about  Senator Gardiner's  utterances today. The honorable senator said that he would tell the Senate what the Labour party's defence policy was. We were intensely interested, but when he sat down we were as wise as we were when he. commenced. We still did not know what was the Labour party's defence policy. He read a statement showing that included in the Labour party's defence platform was the abolition of the military oath. What is that oath? It is simply the oath of allegiance to  His  Majesty the King. Why should it be abolished? Are our friends opposite opposed to anybody proclaiming his loyalty to the King? Do honorable senators opposite know where the principles, if they can be so called, of the election, of officers, the abolition of saluting, and the abolition of the death penalty first originated? They were inaugurated by Kerensky after the downfall of the Czarist Government. But when Kerensky was in turn overthrown by the Bolsheviks, Trotsky very quickly re-established all of them. Have honorable senators seen in the illustrated papers a picture representing Trotsky reviewing the Red army? If so, they will have noticed that the Red army was going past Trotsky at the salute. Trotsky also re-instituted the death penalty. 
He was. He instituted it not merely, as in the British Army, for desertion, but for a great many other offences which in the British Army would not be regarded as crimes.  Senator Gardiner  says that the Labour party stands for " adequate defence." Let us see what that means. First of all, the party does not want defence at sea, because last year  Mr. Anstey;  its  Deputy  Leader in another place, who was acting Leader during the absence of  Mr. Chariton,  submitted the following amendment :  - 
That after the word "That" the following words be inserted: - "as efforts are being made by the  President  of the United States and the Prime Minister of Great Britain to convene another conference to deal with the question of further- disarmament, and in view of the early sitting of the League of Nations, it is the opinion of this House that expenditure on naval construction should be deferred for the present." 
Every member of the Labour party in another place voted for that amendment, which was against the construction of cruisers or any other form of naval construction. 
That amendment did not relate to construction in Australia. It was against construction at all. 
I have quoted the whole of the amendment. As recorded on page 2906 of  Hansard  of last year,  Senator Gardiner  said - 
I hold the view that the expenditure of money outside Australia for the defence of Australia is worse than useless. I have heard it said that we want these cruisers for the protection of our trade routes. I believe  Senator Payne  will agree with that statement. 
Later on he said - 
Our exportable commodities are chiefly primary products. We require no fleet for the protection of. our food supplies. 
Further on, as reported at. page 2911, he said - 
To spend £4,500,000 on building cruisers for our defence is equivalent to throwing the money into the sea, because their construction will not be completed for two years, and they will have to be scrapped in ten years. 
Then  Senator Needham,  now  Deputy  Leader of the Labour party in the Senate, said, as recorded on page 2925 of  Hansard  of last year- 
A cruiser, in . my opinion, is a . battleship. Instead of devoting our energies to the building of 'battleships, we should be giving our attention to the building of friendships. 
Friendship is a more effective means of defence than a battleship.. 
On' page 2928,  Senator Needham  is recorded to have said - 
I wish to again emphasize the point that I am opposed to the construction of cruisers; but, if Parliament determines that two are to be built, I shall strongly advocate that the work of construction be undertaken in Australia by Australian workmen. 
And he moved the following amendment :  - 
That after the word "That" the following words he inserted: - "as efforts are being made by the  President  of the United States and the Prime Minister of Great Britain to convene another conference to deal with the question of further disarmament, and in view of the early sitting of the League of Nations, it is the opinion of this Senate that expenditure upon naval construction should be deferred for the present." 
This amendment was supported on a division by every honorable senator of the Labour party in the Senate. According to page 373 of  Hansard  for this session,  Senator Needham  said - 
From the outset, the members of the Labour party in both Houses of this Parliament opposed the construction of cruisers, and said that, if Parliament decided that they should be built, their construction should be undertaken in Australia. 
They were opposed to the construction of cruisers. So much for naval defence: 
Now we come to military defence.  Senator Gardiner  says that his party stands for adequate home defence. How can a country be defended without an army ? First of all our friends opposite will have no Navy, and they say that they will take no part in war outside Australia. Therefore, having no Navy, and not being prepared to meet an enemy away from our shores, we must be ready to meet one within Australia, and to do so we must, have an army . But as honorable senators opposite are opposed to compulsory training, they will have no army on a compulsory basis, and as they are equally opposed to what they call militarism, they will have no standing army. In these circumstances the only force on which they can rely is a voluntary army.  Senator Gardiner  says that, because we raised an army of 400, 000 men during the war on the voluntary principle, we should still rely on voluntary training. But surely he can see the difference between a spirit of enthusiasm generated by the patriotism of a people during a war and that cold spirit which exists in peace time, when men are called upon to give up their spare time and train. Does not the honorable senator know that the voluntary system has been tried in Australia and proved a. failure? Is there  anything more undemocratic than the system he proposes ? Why should one mau give up his time to train if another will not do so ? Both have an equal stake in the country. Why should one give up his time and not the other? If the Labour party believes in democracy it must hold that the obligation to defend the country rests on all and not on any section. As a party it claims that it does not stand for classes, but the base of its defence policy is class. It would have one class called upon voluntarily to defend Australia while another class would be taking all the benefits given by the country and doing nothing to defend it. How can honorable senators stand by such a policy? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Towards the close of last financial year Parliament granted Supply for the ordinary purposes of government to cover a period of two months. This grant is now exhausted, and the Government is now asking for Supply for a further two months. The total of the bill is £3,322,820, made up as follows: - 

<graphic href="111332192509090_45_0.jpg"></graphic>

When the previous Supply Bill was passed, Estimates for the current year had not been prepared. The schedule to the bill was, therefore, based on the Estimates for 1924-5 and not in the form just presented. A comparison of the first two months' bill with the present bill, which is for a similar period, can be made on totals only. The total of the Supply already granted is £4,459,235, as compared with £3,322,820, the total of the present bill. It should be stated, however, that the first bill contained, under Treasurer's advance, an amount of £1,000,000 to provide for a continuation of works pending the passing of the revenue and loan works bills, whilst no such provision is necessary in the present bill. In addition, a larger amount was included in the first bill for refunds of revenue, to provide for special refunds of direct taxation following on High Court judgments and amendments in the law. Omitting Treasurer's advance and refunds of revenue, the total of the present bill is £3,122,820, whilst the amount of the first Supply was £3,109,235. This slight increase of £13,585 is unimportant when it is remembered that many thousands of pounds will be expended in quarterly and half-yearly contract payments which fall due in the period covered by the Supply. The total of the two Supply bills, which cover four months' expenditure, excluding Treasurer's advance and refunds of revenue, is £6,232,055, whilst one-third of the total expenditure under votes in the main Estimates in respect of which Supply is granted is £6,358,780. These figures show that the Supply bills are £126,725 less than one-third of the total estimated expenditure for the year. When it is remembered that in the four months covered by Supply there are ten pay days, the requirements for which are considerably in excess of one-third of the total salary provision for the year, it will be seen that the proposed expenditure is well within the programme for the year. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator J  . Grant) adjourned. 
Can the Minister for Markets and Migration state when it is proposed to bring down a bill for the re-organization of the Institute of Science and Industry on the lines recommended by the conference appointed by the Government for that purpose? 
SenatorWILSON- The matter is under consideration, and it is hoped that the bill will be introducedat an early date. . 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister,  upon notice - 
Have a number of men been appointed as peace officers? 
If so, how many? 
Were applications called for such positions within and without the Commonwealth - Public Service? 
If so, how were applications invited? 
If applications were not called for in the usual way, in what manner and by whom were these men appointed? 
What are the rank and salary of all those appointed as Commonwealth peace officers? 
What are their duties? 
The answer to the honorable senator's questions are - 
Yes. 
Twenty-five. 
No; as owing to the refusal of the State Government of New South Wales to assist in the enforcement of Commonwealth law, it became necessary to take immediate action. 
See answer to No. 3. 
In pursuance of the provisions of the act, the Acting Superintending Peace Officer was appointed by the Attorney-General, and the other officers were appointed by the Acting Superintending Peace Officer. 
One Acting Superintending Peace Officer, salary £450 per annum; one inspector, salary £400 per annum; two sergeants, salary £1 per day each; 21 other peace officers, salary 14s. 6d. to 17s. 6d. per day each. 
The preservation of the peace throughout the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Customs,  upon notice - 
If he will make available to senators the Tariff Board's report on the timber industry? 
Yes. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster- Gen eral,  upon notice - 
Whether hehas been advised of the delay in the delivery of a wireless message dispatched from the strandedsteamer  Karamu  from South-West Cape? 
Will he state the conditions regulating the control of the wireless station in Hobart? 
Whether, in view of its importance to shipping, he will consider the advisability of giving a continuous service at this station; and also make inquiries regarding the undue delay mentioned, which was the alleged cause of seriously endangering the lives of a ship's crew ? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are - 
Yes. 
This station, together with all other Commonwealth coastal radio stations, is controlled by Amalgamated Wireless Limited under the agreement between the Commonwealth and the company of 1922. 
These questions have been referred to the company'. On receipt of information a further reply will be given. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Works and Railways,  upon notice - 
Will the Minister state whether a tender has been accepted for the construction of the railway from Kyogle to South Brisbane? 
If so, what is the name of the succesful tenderer and the amount of the tender? 
What is the schedule rate per cubic yard for excavating rock in tunnel? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are - 
The matter is in the hands of the Railway Council appointed by the Grafton to South 
Brisbane Railway Act, which will meet in the next few days to consider tenders received. 2 and 3. See answer to No. 1. 
On Friday last  Senator Lynch  asked the following question : - 
What is the amount of bounties or bonuses granted by the Government to each industry in the Commonwealth for the purpose of its encouragement since the establishment of Federation ? 
What was the total amount granted by the Government to all industries for the same purposes and forthe same period? 
The Treasurer  has  now furnished the following information: - 
The following were the amounts of bounty paid bythe Government to each industry in the Commonwealth for the purpose of its encouragement since the establishment of Federation to the 31st August. 1925 :  - 

<graphic href="111332192509101_1_0.jpg"></graphic>

The above amount is the total paid to all industries for thesame purpose during the same period, as there have been no payments by the Government made to encourage any industry outside the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General,upon  notice - 
Is he aware whether, by a legal decision recently, broadcasting firms are compelled to pay royalties on items rendered from their studios? 
Ishe aware whether these royalties absorb a very large proportion of the sums received? 
Is he aware whether action has been taken by the New Zealand Government to exempt broadcasting items from royalties by declaring them to be public utilities? 
Will the Government give consideration to taking similar action in order that listenersin may receive the benefits for which they pay a licence fee? 
The answers to the honorable senator's questions are - 
Yes. 
I am aware that the proportion is appreciable. 
No, not as regards copyright. 
This aspect is determined by the provisions of the Copyright Act. 
On the 3rd September  Senator Gardiner  asked the following questions: - 
How many excess taxation officers were there outstanding at 31st July, 1025, pending suitable positions being found them in other branches of the Service? 
When is it anticipated that the classification of the Clerical Division of the Commonwealth Public Service in New South Wales will be finalized? 
What is the number of temporary clerks at present employed in the Commonwealth Public Service in each State of the Commonwealth (the number for each State to be shown separately) ? 
When is it expected that the positions at present held by them will be filled by permanent officers duly qualified, and who have a superior claim to such positions? 
I now desire to inform, the honorable senator that the replies to his questions are as follow: - 
Forty-nine at present. 
The classification is being effected in sections of departments, each section generally embracing several divisions, including the Third Division. It is not anticipated that the last section willbe classified before 30thJune. 1926. 
New South Wales, 74: Victoria, 181; Queensland, 30; South Australia, 45: Western Australia, 35; Tasmania, 5. 
The temporary employees are not all filling created positions in which excess taxation officers could be placed. The excess officers are fully and profitably employed, but the necessity for absorbing them in permanent positions as opportunity offers is recognized. It cannot be definitely stated when all the excess officers will be so disposed of. 
I ask the 
Leader of the Senate - 
Did  Senator Pearce,  speaking in the Senate on the 10th October, 1924 (Hansard, page 5548), say - " I direct the attention of honorable senators to the fact that the Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page),  in the most unequivocal terms, said, in introducing the budget - 
  When the Superannuation Bill was under discussion in Parliament, a promise was made by the Government that arrangements would be made to amend the act to provide for the special conditions of the defence service. . . . 
Any new provision will date from the 1st July, 1024."' 
And again, on the same date(Hansard, page 5552), did he state,' when the Superannuation Bill was being discussed - " We propose to make an amendment which, we understand, will provide for the class referred to by  Senator Gardiner?" 
Did all the persons who came under that amended clause receive increased payments as from the 1st July, 1924? 
Did any of the persons who came under that clause lose about two months' pay at the increased rate? 
What is the reason for not paying these persons the increased rate as from the 1st July, 1924, as promised by the Treasurer in introducing his budget, and by  Senator Pearce  in his place in the Senate? 
I shall endeavour to get the information for the honorable senator during the afternoon. I have already given instructions for the necessary inquiries to be made, and will see that it is supplied to the honorable senator as soon as it has been obtained. 
It is possible, under this motion, to discuss at length a variety of matters, but in view of the desire of the Government to have the bill passed as quickly as possible I shall make my remarks very brief. 
I invite the attention of the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  to an article which recently appeared in the Melbourne  Herald  to the effect that the disease of cancer is making rapid and serious inroads on the health of the Australian people. I suggest that the Government should make provision in the Estimates for a very much larger expenditure on research work than is provided for the current year. The article in question makes the statement that approximately 750,000, or one in every nine, of the present population of . Australia will die of cancer. I have no means of verifying the statement, and I cannot vouch for its accuracy. None of the questions that confront the people of the Commonwealth or of the British Empire is worthy of more concentrated attention than is demanded by the- increase in the number of those who contract cancer. It is quite impossible for me to state the cause of the disease. It may be due to malnutrition, over-eating, the consumption of large quantities of tinned foods, or other causes. Both its cause and its cure have so far baffled the medical profession. I appreciate the work that is being done, and the money that is being spent by the Government in investigating the disease, but having regard to the supreme importance of protecting and conserving the health of our people, a substantially greater sum should be voted annually if it is possible to expend it judiciously. "We should not remain comparatively inactive year after year when such a large percentage of our people are swept away by this dread disease. It must be remembered that for many months, and sometimes years, its victims suffer excruciating agony, and once they contract the disease there is no possibility of their being cured. 
During the last financial year the expenditure on old-age and invalid pensions totalled the very respectable sum of £7,146,857. Despite the operation of our " glorious " policy of Protection, I find that the revenue from Customs duties especially, and also from excise duties, has considerably increased. Last year the revenue from all sources enabled the Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page),  to close the year's accounts with a very substantial credit balance. The cost of living has advanced appreciably, and is still rising, and every member of this Parliament favours the proposal to increase the old- age and invalid pensions. I, therefore, disagree with the attitude of the Government in refusing to make the increase applicable to the payments from the 1st July last. It would merely be doing justice to those who find it difficult to make ends meet if the Government made the payment of the increase retrospective. 
Whenever additional Customs or excise duties are brought down they take effect immediately. Why should not that principle be applied to the remission of taxation ? It is intended at some future date, which is being kept a close secret by the Government, to remit the entertainments tax on tickets costing up to 2s. 6d. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the Hon. 
Givens). - Order! I point out to the honorable senator that these are matters that ought properly to have been discussed on the motion for the first reading of the bill. The remission of taxation, to which the honorable senator has referred, is included in the budget papers, a motion relating to which appears on the notice-paper, and under our Standing Orders honorable senators- may not anticipate the discussion of any subject that is on the business paper. On the motion for the second reading of this bill, all that may be discussed is the general administration. 
I suppose I am out of order. I notice that there is an amount of £16,830 for salaries and contingencies in connexion with invalid and old-age pensions. 
The honorable senator will be in order in discussing the administration of the Pensions Department, but when called to order he was dealing with certain remissions of the entertainments tax. 
The honorable senator must not trespass too much upon my ruling. 
The question of protection does not arise in connexion with the administration of ordinary supply, and cannot be discussed on this motion. There will be opportunities later to discuss the items which the honorable senator has mentioned. 
I have not ruled in that way. If there is an item in this ' measure which has a direct bearing on the timber industry the honorable senator will be able to refer to it more effectively in committee. 
I wish, however, to take advantage of the opportunity to say that I am opposed to the immigration agreement entered into between the Commonwealth and Great Britain. I cannot sec any necessity whatever for it. The agreement has been entered into with a view . to bring more people to this country. One half of the expense so incurred is borne by Great Britain and one half by the Commonwealth. There does not appear to be any reason for such an arrangement when we have in the Commonwealth to-day a considerable number of men who are quite unable to obtain employment. While such conditions exist we are not acting in the interests of the Commonwealth, or in the interests of the migrants who are really being brought here under false pretences. 
A great deal of trouble is experienced by electors in New South Wales in ascertaining whether their names are on the Federal roll, and some thousands are fined every month because they have failed to enrol. In a large number of cases this misunderstanding has arisen because electors believe that as their names appear on the State roll they are also on the Federal roll. In some of the States an elector whose name appears on the State roll is also enrolled for Federal purposes, but that does not follow in New South Wales. I believe the New South Wales authorities are to blame to some extent. 
When the Minister for Markets and Migration  (Senator Wilson)  wasabroad some time ago, we were informed that, as a result of his efforts, the marketing of Australian fresh fruit in London would be placed on a more business-like basis. If reports published in the newspapers are correct, that promise has not been realized, as recent cables indicate that some fruit has reached London in a very bad condition. Apparently the strictest supervision has not been exercised over the shipments sent overseas, with the result that low prices have been obtained and Australian fruit has obtained anything but a good advertisement. Knowing that we grow in Australia some of the best fruit on earth, we should see that it finds its way oversea, and, if possible, that it is sold in a good market, and that good prices are obtained for it. It would appear, further, that there is an oversea ring controlling the fruit business. I read recently that the authorities in Australia House had said that the fruit market was controlled by a ring, and a writ was served on them calling upon them to prove the statement. Up to the present, I have not heard whether the case has been proceeded with. 
The marketing of Australian fruits, in my opinion, is not being controlled as it should he. A  Mr. Arndt  represented the fruit-growers of New South Wales at the Imperial Fruit-growers' Conference in London in 1924, and I understand that on his return he presented the Government with a report in which he stated that he had traced the history of a consignment of apples from Tasmania, and that that consignment was not of the very best quality. He speaks of a consignment of Jonathan apples that were bought by a ring at lis. a case. They were resold for 17s. a case, and the buyer at 17s. resold them at 25s.. They were then retailed at lOd. a lb., or 34s. a case. Out of that the grower received ls. 6d. a case, 9s. 6d. being absorbed in middlemen's charges.  Mr. Arndt  suggests that a portion of the floor-space of Australia House should be set apart for the storing and marketing of Australian fruit, which should be sold direct to the consumers. If there be space available at that institution, it would be well for. the Government to consider the suggestion seriously. Australia is extremely interested in primary production, and the Government has been approached, not once, but several times, by those engaged in the primary industries, for financial assistance, and different sections of primary producers have been assisted financially. Instead of assisting the fruitgrowers in that way, it would be better for the Government to place at their disposal space in- Australia House that is not being utilized to its full capacity at the present, time. .The disparity between the price the grower receives and the price the consumer pays is too great. 
It does. Displayed on the railway stations in this city are very catchy and " meaty " slogans designed to increase the consumption of fruit. Although it is comforting to be told that if you eat more fruit you will be healthier, the man whose purse is so limited that he is not able to purchase the fruit at the prices charged for it cannot get much comfort out of it. I do not say that the grower receives too much; he receives too little, and the consumer pays too much. Every Government should strive to bring the- producer and the consumer closer together. In the export fruit trade there is an oppor tunity for the Government to do something to assist those men who, according to  Mr. Arndt,  . speaking in a representative capacity, .are being ex,ploited in both wholesale and retail markets. If anything can be done to prevent that exploitation, the Government should do it as soon as possible. 
In reply to the question raised by  Senator J.  Grant, the vote for cancer research is part of the annua] vote of £5,000. The Treasurer, in his budget speech, said of that vote- 
The subsidy provided by Parliament for the investigation of cancer has been distributed to aid research work at the Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide Universities, and at the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. 
We all agree with what  Senator Grant  has said about the serious ravages of this terrible disease, and anything the Government can do in the direction of finding a remedy will be done. Before the Government decided to make this money available, the best advice obtainable- was sought regarding what could be done in Australia, and the conclusion was reached that all we could do was by assisting research. The universities are the best equipped bodies for that purpose, and the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories can also undertake the work. The amount of money provided is sufficient to enable such research work as can be done in Australia to be done here. If the amount, proves insufficient, the Government will be only too willing tq increase it, if an increased sum can be usefully spent. If we can do anything to check the ravages of this disease we shall render a service, not merely to. Australia, but to humanity. 
Regarding, the complaint- about fining people in New South Wales for not enrolling on the Commonwealth Electoral Roll, the Government has repeatedly urged, not the present, but previous New South Wales Governments to adopt an arrangement for a joint State and Commonwealth roll. I shall see that similar representations are made to the present Government in that State. A joint roil has already been adopted in some of the States. I am glad to say that the Western Australian Government has introduced a bill to provide for a joint roll, and when that is carried, the only States that will not have a joint roll will be New South Wales and Queensland. 
The door isopen to New South Wales, and no blame in the  , matter  can be attached to the Commonwealth Government, which wishes to have a joint roll. 
The Government is alive to the importance of the question that has been raisedby  Senator Findley  - that of the marketingof fresh fruits. Legislation has been passed in regard to the marketing of (dried fruits, . and the Minister for Markets and Migration  (Senator Wilson)  has under consideration in his department at the present time the question of what . action can be taken along similar lines with respect -to fresh fruits. It is an unfortunate circumstance that our fresh fruits ; are not satisfactorily handled overseas, and some legislative action will need to be taken. . I shall bring . the remarks of the honorable (senator under the notice ofmy . honorable colleague. I can assure him that the Minister is . sympathetic, and hopes to' bring forward a. proposal dealing with the 'matter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Schedule. 
SenatorFINDLEY (Victoria) [3.45].- Under the heading "Territories of the Commonwealth,"I notice, in relation to the Northern Territory, an item of £1,375 as " subsidy for steamship service (passengers and cargo) between Melbourne and Darwin." Does the  Government  subsidize steamships for the conveyance of passengers and cargo? 
 Yes. There is a contract with Messrs. Burns Philp &amp; Co. 
SenatorFINDLEY.- Is it distinct from the mail subsidy? 
 Yes. Nocompany would run a vessel  to  Darwin  for  the conveyance of passengers and goods if it were not subsidized. Tenders are invited each year, and the lowest is accepted. 
Is the subsidy to the Western Australian Government for the shipping service between Fremantle and Darwin granted for a similar reason ? 
Schedule agreed to. 
Preamble : and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without request; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
.- I move- 
That thebill ; be now read a second time. 
Honorable senators are, I think, con- . versant with the principle of thebill, which is one of the most popular measures that can 'engage the attention of members of this Parliament. It is very short . and authorizes theGovornment to subsidize State Governments on the £1 for £1 basis up to £500,000 for the construction of main roads within the meaning of the act and regulations. But this measure,as compared with the two main roads development bills of previous years, introduces a new principle. Under it the Government proposes to set apart £250,000forallocation among the States,on the same proportional basis as in the case of the grant of . £500,000, but free of any condition in regard tocontributions of an equal amount by the State Governments. Grants from this additional £250, 00 will be made available for the reconditioning and strengthening of portions of 'existing main roads. The. following statement sets out the position with regard to' the allocations, commitments, and expenditure under the grants already authorized : - 

<graphic href="111332192509101_6_0.jpg"></graphic>

It will be' noted, that there is . still . available from the two. previous grants an amount of, approximately, £400,000. However,I invite attention to the fact that practically the . whole amount, namely, £918,540, has been either expended on or actually committed to works in hand. As a result of the grants, the Commonwealth hasbeen, provided -with the following lengths of new roads : - Length of roads cleared, 700 miles;  length of roads still to be cleared, 250 miles; length of roads formed and metalled or gravelled, 1,050 miles; length, of roads still to be formed, metalled, or gravelled, 300 miles, representing in all about 2,000 miles of roads cleared, formed, or constructed.' It. is unnecessary for me to enlarge upon the value of good roads to people living in outside districts. It is essential that they shouldbe provided with reasonable  facilitiesThe  works ita all t(he States are now being considerably accelerated, owing to a more complete understanding of the Commonwealth Government's  requirements. By the end of the present, financial year it is anticipated that the whole of the present unexpended balances, together with the amount of £1,000,000 to be made available by the Governments of the Commonwealth and the respective States during the current year, and the additional £250,000 which it is proposed to advance free of the condition as to an equal contribution by the States, will have been expended or commitments entered into in respect of it. The proposal to advance to the States this further sum of £250,000 for the reconditioning and strengthening of portions of existing main roads in the various States is, in the opinion of the Government, reasonable in view of the difficulties experienced by some of the States in providing funds for main roads as well as roads under the Federal scheme. This money is not to be used for filling up "pot holes" and the payment of casual labour work. The Government,, realizing the  benefits  derived from the works already carried out, will consider, at a later stage, the desirability of extending the operations and scope of the act, with the object of presenting to the Senate a more comprehensive scheme of road construction. I submit the bill for the favorable consideration of the Senate, in the interests especially of good roads in the outback districts. 
.- The Minister stated that the bill was a popular measure. There is no doubt about that. The Government, embarrassed by its riches, is extremely anxious to placate its constituents by doing something that will meet with their approval. Whilst road construction is essential to the development of Australia, it is doubtful whether it is wise for the Commonwealth Government to enter this domain. 
Till recently, I was under the impression that road construction was the responsibility of municipalities. We all know that at frequent intervals these local governing bodies in the various States approach State Governments seeking, and very often receiving, financial assistance to carry out road construction work, lt is only recently that a departure has been made from the established custom, and grants have been made available by the  Commonwealth  Government. 
I hope we shall not lose sight of the main principle in the discussion on this measure. I take it that every honorable senator, whether he be supporting the Government or opposed to it, believes in the construction and maintenance of good roads. We cannot expect to make progress unless we get away from the primitive conditions that obtain in many parts of this and the other States. Good roads are essential. We need not go very far to discover bad roads. Within a short distance of this building there are roads which a few years ago were considered good enough for vehicular traffic, but which are not now fit for present-day heavy traffic. They are really in a shocking state. In places not far distant from Melbourne the dust from the roads is so bad that persons in proximity to heavy wagons have either to submit to a more or less suffocating dust bath, or take shelter and wait until the dust clouds pass by. Health is paramount to wealth. We cannot expect to have a healthy community if, owing to faulty roads in our cities or inland towns, we make no attempt to get rid of this germ-laden dust that is constantly floating about whenever the north wind blows. 
The honorable senator says that he does not worry much about germ-laden dust that contaminates our foodstuffs and is responsible for so much sickness. We should jealously guard the health and comfort of the people. No work is more important than the construction and maintenance nf roads. Within a short distance of Melbourne I have seen children  going  to school in the winter along roads on which there were pools of water and slush, and it was impossible for them to enter the school without getting their feet damp, and so endangering their health. 
It is proposed to spend it in different States, and Melbourne is the capital city of VictoriaHow are we to know that some of it will not be spent within the metropolitan area? Are we to understand that .it must all be spent in country towns? 
Roads are just as important within a metropolitan area as they are in country districts. 
If the Govern- . ment is interested in the health and comfort of the people it should not confine its assistance to roads in country towns. Apart from the £1 for £1 subsidy there is to be a grant of £250,000 without that condition attached. Clause 7 refers to the proposed reconditioning or strengthening of existing main roads. Some main roads run through many country towns. I am glad to see that provision in the bill, because there are roads in the country which are in a very bad state, and an opportunity will thus be afforded to municipalities to place them in good order. The expense of that work now is much greater than it was a few years ago. This policy marks a distinct departure by the Federal legislature, which is entering a domain that was not previously entered. Once we establish the precedent of distributing our surpluses in this way, we shall have similar applications from those who are engaged in other spheres of activity. I believe that the money which was voted in past years has been well spent, and that our roads are in a much better condition than they would have been without that assistance. This proposed vote will provide a greater opportunity for progress in main roads development, and will enable some municipalities to recondition roads that have got into a state of disrepair because of the lack of the finance necessary to place them in proper order. 
I was rather' surprised to hear  Senator 
Findley disagree with the principle of the bill, in view of the emphasis that last' night was laid upon the defence plank of the Labour platform, which provides for the construction and maintenance of main roads. I am well aware of the necessity for having good roads, but I do not think that we should surrender, as we appear to be doing, our power to control the expenditure of funds that are contributed by the taxpayers of the Commonwealth. If the Commonwealth Government desires to have money spent on roads it should, as quickly as possible, evacuate the field of direct  taxa-.  tion which was entered as a war measure, and should allow the States to make their own arrangements in regard to the construction of roads. My reason for adopting that view is that I am convinced that a great deal of this money is wasted, and that we do not get anything like value for the expenditure. We are departing from the safeguard which was provided at the initiation of this policy, and nothing but disaster can result. I doubt whether there is a single reliable authority on roads in Australia. The Melbourne City Engineer is one of the leading engineers in the Commonwealth. He has visited not only America, but also many of the cities in Great Britain and on the Continent, and no doubt he is very well grounded in the work of constructing roads. 
Few engineers of shires have had the opportunity to gain experience in the construction of roads that are suited to present-day traffic needs. If honorable senators will study the reports of  Mr. Morton  and others who have had that opportunity they will find that even in America, where for a long time experiments have been made in an endeavour to construct roads that will resist modern traffic, they have not reached the stage when they can say with certainty that any particular class of road will bear the strain that is likely to be imposed upon it. If experts are still wrestling with the problem, of what use is it for us to hand over very large sums to municipal engineers who have had no experience and no opportunity to gain a knowledge- of the requirements of a modern road? I should rather see a larger sum made available to then Institute of Science and Industry, or some similar body, to enable it to experiment and distribute its results for the benefit of. engineers who are confronted . with this problem. 
.- The Treasurer  (Dr. Earl Page)  would have acted wisely had he proposed to reduce the income tax to the extent of £1,000,000, rather than collect that sum. and then hand . it 'back for use in a way that will increase the. value of the land that is held . by wealthy land-owners of the Commonwealth. In New South. Wales there is in operation an excellent system that follows strictly the canons of taxation laid down by Henry George. The city of Sydney iscalled upon to pay¼d. in the £1, and the shires and municipalities½d. in the £1 on, the unimproved' capital value of the. land in., their areas., the revenue thus derived being utilized in the construction, of roads,. In addition, the shires and municipalities levy rates of 5d., 6d,, and even higher amounts, to raise the revenue necessary to keep their roads in a passable condition. Why should the Treasurer . of the Commonwealth, . impose taxation by means of Customs duties, -excise duties, probate duties,' entertainments tax and income tax, and.' collect . at enormous expense revenue that in many cases is handed back" to the.very people who should in the first instance have paid the taxation locally? It is undoubtedly an extremely objectionable method of financing the construction of roadways. One of the main reasons why. many of our main roads are in a deplorable . condition is the exceptionally high '.cost, of cement, . which makes the use of- that material, . almost prohibitive. In the. vicinity of Melbourne there is- an ample supply of blue metal almost alongside the roads, but in other parts of the Commonwealth, good- stone cannot be. obtained' 'within many miles of where it is required. In such circumstances there is no opportunity, of constructing a permanent roadway unless concrete is used, which is . entirely beyond the financial resources, of. many local governing bodies. Instead'of voting from the Consolidated Revenue the amount it is now proposed to grant to" the States, it would be better to carry', it forward to next year and to reduce the income tax. 
SenatorJ. B.. Hayes.- Why not reduce thelandtax? 
Commonwealth land taxation is. imposed only on estates the unimproved value of which exceeds £5,000. 
That is one' of the legacies handed down to us by gentlemen who once occupied seats at Labour conferences,, but- who are now on the opposite side of the chamber. That is the present policy of the Government, but it is . a wonder Federal income taxation has not been, entirely abolished. 
Money is obtained by the municipalities, almost exclusively by a -straight-out land values tax of 6d. or 7dL in the £1. The main roads in New South Wales are under the control of a roads board, which derives its revenue from½d. in the £1 tax imposed by the municipalities, and possibly with the assistance of a State subsidy. 
No. There is always a great reluctance on the part of people to tax themselves. Some of the wealthiest shires in New South Wales are the most persistent beggars, and are' always approaching the Treasurer for subsidies, whilst shires whose finances, are not in such a buoyant state are honorable enough to raise nearly all the revenue they require. Instead of taking the amount now proposed from the Consolidated Revenue, the Government ought to inform the States that the work of road construction and maintenance is no part of its duty. At the inception of Federation it was never contemplated that the Federal Parliament would be asked to collect money and hand it over to the States in this form. It is a matter of one authority collecting the money and another spending it. 
No; I' am strongly opposed to it. The principle is entirely wrong. The proper course would be to retain all the revenue received from the Customs and to remit the Federal income tax, and allow . the States to collect a similar amount. 
Yes. We should dispense with the Federal income tax. The State should collect taxation upon incomes. If we were to do that it would show clearly and conclusively what arrant humbugs' these gentlemen are who never tire of proclaiming themselves as being in favour of local industries, because it would then be clearly shown that while we derive the bulk of our revenue through the Customs House:, goods made in lowwage foreign protectionist countries are still coming to Australia. Instead of paying this money to the. States we should inform them that the proper course for them to adopt is to impose a straightout land values tax of1d. in the £1, as is being done in some instances. Such an impost on the land values shown in 1914 would produce about £2,000,000 per year. 
But the land tax can be passed on. 
I am glad to have that admission. I have foundit very difficult- tomake some people understand that it cannot be passed on. On the land values shown in 1914, a straightout tax of1d', in the £1 would produce about £2,000,000'. I supposethat the value of the land in the Commonwealth could now be set down at £1,000,000,000, and if the Commonwealth or the States were to impose a tax of1d. in the £1. such a tax would produce at least £4,000,000. The total amount spent on roads- in the Commonwealth does not exceed £15,000,000 to £20,000,000 a year. Whenever the construction of a road, is commenced the land in the vicinity immediately increases in value to aremarkable extent ; but- those who benefit by increased land values do not contribute to the extent they should. Instead, of those who derive the benefit contributing persons' who attend picture: shows are taxed. The only proper method to adopt is to: discontinue the- imposition of  a  Federal income tax, abolish the  per capita  payments, and allow the States which needthe money to raise it for themselves. 
Idid notanticipate any opposition being offered to the bill, and I am sur prised that one honorable senator should suggest that the Commonwealth should not interest itself in the construction or maintenance of our national- highways. The departure made by the Government two years ago has met with the general approval of the wholeof the people. The assistance given to the States' by means of a Federal road grant has been very much appreciated,, and. the proposal under this bill to increasethe amount from. £500,000, which was paid last year, to £750,000, I am. sure will meet with, general approval. It is now proposed to allow £250,000 of this amount to be used, for reconditioning and strengthening main, roads, and that money thus made available will be of great assistance to- Tasmania. With other' honorable senators, I have maderepresentations to the Minister controlling the- department in regard to the urgency of recognizing how essential it is that a portion of the grant should be made available for reconstruction purposes in order that roads- may be capable of carrying traffic which is now much heavier than when they were firstconstructed.  Senator Findley  and  Senator J..  Grant have suggested that municipalities in rural areas should bear the whole of the cost of maintaining the roads under their control, but apparently they have no knowledge of the actual conditions existing in many parts of- Australia.. In. the municipality in Tasmania in which I live a local rate of1s. 8d. in the £1 on the annual value is imposed, which is spent solely on the maintenance of our roads. 
I have not worked it out on that basis. 
-I have not.an opportunity to test the accuracy of the honorable- senator's figures at this juncture, but I know a rate of1s. 8d. in the £1 on. the annual value would, considerably exceed the amount he mentions. For some time we have been asking the Minister for Works' and Railways (Mr.Hill) to- reduce&gt; by one half the minimum amount to be spent on one road, so that States such as Tasmania may obtain the utmost benefit. I trust the Minister will; confer with the Minister for Works and Railways with a view to seeing if the regulations- madeunder this-  measure cannot be amended in order to give effect to our wishes. If that is done, one of the greatest difficulties we have in Tasmania in obtaining the best results from the expenditure cf this money will be removed. 
This matter was so thoroughly threshed out a few nights ago that I do not purpose to deal with it at any great length now, but I wish to register my disagreement with  Senator J.  Grant and  Senator Elliott,  who said that they did not think that the Government should provide this assistance. I have said before; and I repeat now, that the Government could not have evolved a better scheme for distributing its surplus revenue than by employing it to build better roads for the people of Australia. When  Senator Elliott  said that he did not think there ' was a reliable road-builder in Australia, his opinion was endorsed by some honorable senators. 
At least, he said there were not many of them, and he gave me to understand that our engineers were not so up-to-date in road-making its the engineers in other parts of the world. Owing to the more extensive use during the past few years of petrol-driven vehicles for transporting goods, . a new system of road-making has come into use all over the world. I am distinctly of opinion that our road engineers know as much about road-making as any one else; but their trouble at the present time is not want of knowledge, but want of cash.  Many  of the States, in the matter of roadmaking, have tried to make bricks without straw. We have built roads in Tasmania for from £800 to £1,000 a mile, and an engineer employed in road-making in England spoke to me of a road that cost £42,000 a mile. When the difference in the two amounts is considered, it ~s easy to realize that there must be a difference in the quality of the roads. If we can get the money, we can build the roads, and the more money we spend the better will be the roads we build. I welcome, as  Senator Payne  did, the Government's intention of complying with our joint request to apply portion of this grant to reconditioning and strengthening the main roads. The Government has provided £250,000 this year for that pur pose, and I am sorry that it was not able to increase the amount to £500,000. Notwithstanding all that has been said on the subject, the conditions applying to the old grant of £500.000 are unaltered. I realize that they can be altered under the regulations. If I thought they could be altered in the bill, I should take  steps  to test the opinion of the Senate on the subject. I believe the Government is sympathetic, and I hope that when it frames the regulations under which the money will be spent, it will try to meet the views of honorable senators. In allocating this money, the Government should take into consideration the different conditions existing in the different States. It is impossible to give satisfaction by sitting down in Melbourne and formulating a road policy for the whole of Australia. In some States a road may run for 100 miles through dry country, with a poor rainfall; but the conditions are quite different in Victoria or Tasmania. A man accustomed to making roads in a dry State would be lost in Tasmania. The road engineers and Ministers for Works m the different States should have a louder voice in determining how the money should be spent. The local authorities, by their long experience, know what suits their States best, and the Government will get better value for the money if it will take more notice of them. After all, what we want is to get the best value for the money, and to render the best service to the people. I am quite satisfied that if the Government will confer with the road engineers of each of the States the money will be spent to much better advantage. The larger States, when they spend money on roads, want to do an appreciable amount of work, and open up new country, and it may seem absurd to them to suggest that less than £1,000 should be spent on one road. They look upon such work as belonging to a shire council. There is something in their point of view, but in a small State a large amount of good work can be done "by an expenditure of even less than £500 on a road. The other night I cited roads with dangerous curves and other disabilities that could be removed for less than £500. I hope that the Minister will instruct his engineers to confer more frequently with the engineers of the States. I accompanied a deputation to the Minister the other day, and when I referred to two parallel  metalled roads 3 or 4 miles apart, the engineers said that one of them was not necessary. But owing to the nature of the country we are compelled to have those two roads. We have hundreds of miles of metalled roads running parallel to one another . I know places where one could stand on a metalled road and fire a rifle bullet to another metalled road, but owing to the mountainous nature of the country and the ravines lying between, it would be necessary to travel many miles to get. from one road to the other. The contour of the country has compelled Tasmania to spend huge sums on its roads. We have 7,000 or 8,000 miles of metalled roads, and surely with all our experience wo know better than the Federal authorities where to spend the money most advantageously. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 5 agreed to. 
Clause 6 (Additional payments for reconditioning or strengthening). 
 If in reconditioning or reconstructing a road a bridge in a bad state of repair is met with, will the replacement of the bridge be paid for out of the amount provided? I understand that it probably would, and I should like an assurance from the Minister to that effect. 
What does the Government mean by main roads, and who decides what is. or is not, a main road ? 

 Senator C. W. GRANT (Tasmania) (4.49].  -  I should like to know whether the request of  Senator ,  T. B. Hayes, for the reduction of the minimum amount permitted to be spent, on one road from £1,000 to £500, will be complied with. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 7 and 8 agreed to. 
Preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment. 
Standing and Sessional Orders suspended report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
.- I move- 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till 3. p.m. on a' date to be fixed by the  President,  which date shall be notified to each senator by telegram or letter. 
On present appearances, it looks as if the Senate could safely adjourn for four or five weeks. Of the fourteen measures before another place, nine or ten have already passed this chamber, and the others are of such a character that it will be some time before they are ready for presentation here. But in these times of stress it may be necessary for honorable senators to be called together at any time, and, therefore, I am submitting the motion in this form. I trust, however, that it will not be necessary for the  President  to summon the Senate to meet at an earlier date than at least a month from to-day. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 (By leave.)  - I move - 
That leave of absence be granted to every member of the Senate from the determination of the sitting this day to the day on which the Senate next meats. 
This motion is necessary to. safeguard the position of absent senators. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Some weeks ago I received from the Ministers of State for the Commonwealth an invitation requesting my presence at a dinner at Federal Parliament House to-morrow night in honour of the Governor-General. This week the two leaders of theNational Government,  Mr. Bruce  and  Dr. Earle  Page, have referred to certain political leaders  as criminals. I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether Ministers wish to force the Governor-Gfeneral to sit with criminals at the same dinner table? 
Do I understand  Senator Gardiner  to say that the Prime Minister has referred to him as a criminal ? 
Knowing the Prime Minister as I do, I am quite sure the honorable senator has misunderstood him. 
What object has the Government in obtaining a dissolution of the House of Representatives? What additional power does it hope to gain by an appeal to the people, seeing that it now has a majority in both' Houses ? 
The reasons prompting the Government in advising the Governor-General to grant a dissolution, and the powers the Government hope to obtain from the people, will be fully explained when the Prime Minister makes his policy speech. 
Is the Government aware that, during the last 24 hours, the following notice has been posted on public buildings and in the streets of Melbourne :  - 
Corrupt Police Force; comprised of scabs, blackmailers, and bloodsuckers. Unionists, are you aware that they are taking what other men  have  fought  for! 
This placard bears no signature- 
Order! The honorable senator is not in order in making any statement of fact, except in so far as it is necessary to explain his question. 
Is it the intention of the Government to make a definite announcement in reference to the payment of a bounty to gold-mining companies? 
The honorable senator knows that it is not the practice to reply to questions of policy. 
Has the Government definitely decided to increase the old-age pension? If so, when will the increase be payable? 
The honorable senator will obtain the information he requires at a later stage of the sitting, when the Invalid and Old-age Pensions Bill will be under consideration. 
I have to inform the Senate that I have received a letter from  Mrs. Russell,  widow of the late  Senator E.  J. Russell, thanking the Senate for its resolution of sympathy inconnexion with the death of the late senator. 
-Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Pearce)  noticed that the shipping interests have refused to produce their books before the Deportation Board? Is it the intention of the Government to pass through Parliament a bill to give the Deportation Board power to order the production of these documents, if it has not already power to do so ? 
It is the opinion of the Government that the board constituted under the Immigration Restriction Act has all the powers necessary for its inquiry. 
It is not my intention to discuss the proceedings of the Deportation Board. 
In view of the statement of the Minister that the Deportation Board has all the powers necessary for its requirements, will the right honorable senator say what he considers are the board's requirements? 

 Question not answered. 

The answers are - 1 and 2. The following nine continuing permits have been issued under Section 286 of the Navigation Act during the past three years to unlicensed Britishships to engage in the coasting trade within the limits mentioned: - 

 Gorgon, Minderoo, Gascoyne and Centaur - Between Fremantle, Geraldton, Denham, Carnarvon, Onslow Roads, Point Sampson, Port Hedland, Broome, Derby and Wyndham, subject to the condition that as regards trade between Fremantle and Geraldton the permit covers the carriage of passengers only. 

 Tanda - Between Thursday Island and other Commonwealth ports. This permit was issued in substitution for a similar permit issued to the s.s  Eastern. 

 Veimauri and Ballengarra - Between ports and places on the coast of the Territory of Papua. 

 Papuan Chief - Between Thursday Island and/or ports and places on the coast of the Territory of Papua. 

 Poonoar - Between ports and places on the coast of the Territory of New Guinea. 
It is understood that all these vessels carry coloured crews. 
Yes. 
*5. Section 7 of the Navigation Act provides that the Governor-General may by Order declare that the carrying of passengers or cargo between ports in any Territory under the authority of the Commonwealth and any Australian ports shall not be deemed engaging in the coasting trade. But no such power exists in regard to trade between ports in the States of the Commonwealth. 
In this matter Tasmania cannot be treated on a basis in any degree more favourably than any other State, Section 00 of the Constitution distinctly prohibiting the granting to any one State or part thereof, by any law or regulation of trade or commerce, of any preference as compared with any other State or part of a State. 
.. - In view of the fact that it is desired to conclude the business of Parliament as early as possible, so that the members of both branches of the Legislature may go to the country, I move - 
That so much of the Standing and Sessional Orders be suspended as would prevent the bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
I am as anxious as anybody that the business of the country should not be delayed, but I see no necessity to suspend the Standing Orders to hurry matters. So far as I am aware - and I have not yet had a copy of this bill - the measure is one demanding very grave consideration, particularly by the Senate. Since a dissolution is imminent, it is indecent on the part of the Government to attempt to pass legislation of this character. I admit that I am in the dark to some extent as to what the contents of the bill are. . 
Then the fault is my own, since I arrived in Melbourne only to-day. The Government is going to the country, and I venture to say that we are all heartily glad of it. It does not affect the financial position of retiring honorable senators whether the election takes place in October, November or December, or even next January, since their term of office does not expire until the 30th June, 1926 ; but, surely, if the position of the Government is so serious that it feels the necessity for a further expression of opinion by the people, it will see that it is indecent to pass any legislation at all prior to the election. There was a time when- the mere fact that a censure motion, that it was feared might affect the fate of the Government, had been submitted in the other branch of the legislature, was regarded as sufficient to warrant the Senate's adjournment. In the present case, however, the fate of the Government definitely hangs in the balance, and still it proposes to pass legislation before appealing to the people. Such a procedure is unheard of. Talk about constitutional government 1 What could be more unconstitutional than for a ministry that has relinquished the reins of government to attempt to pass legislation on the eve of an election? Only one measure should be submitted - a bill to grant Supply to carry on the necessary services of the country. 
Even that measure,- important as it is, should 'be at once laid on the table or put into the waste-paper basket. When a ministry has asked for and obtained the promise of a dissolution, it is indecent for it to attempt to pass any legislation until the verdict of the people has been obtained. 
On the eve of the election this Government proposes to add half a crown a week to the income of a very desirable section of the community. That of itself is an indication of the extent to which the Ministry is prepared to go on the eve of an election. It might he possible, although I hardly chink so, for Australia to be cursed with a more inept government than we have at present. 
That is purely a matter of opinion. If any ten men in the community were casually selected I do not think it would be possible for them to have less ability than the present Ministry has shown. I suppose that the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce),  judging by his statement in another place, has approached the Governor-General. I can imagine his saying to  His Excellency,  ' ' I cannot carry on. I desire your consent to dissolve both houses of Parliament, and I wish to be permitted to make an announcement to that effect to the country." It is easy to imagine such a conversation as that. I can also imagine  His Excellency  replying, "Why? You have a majority in both Houses. In the Senate you have 24 supporters as against twelve senators in opposition. In the House of Representatives there are 46 anti-Labor members and only 29 Labour members. Surely, if there is any danger threatening the country, there is no occasion for a dissolution now." 
Order! The question under discussion is the suspension of the Standing Orders, and not that of a dissolution. 
 The honorable senator is really condemning his own leader, because  Mr. Charlton  specially asked for a dissolution. 
.- I desire to say a few words in support of the protest made by my leader,  Senator Gardiner.  I wish also to take advantage of this opportunity to protest against the slanders which are being heaped upon Australia and its people by the Government and its supporters. In every paper published throughout the civilized world to-day there are appearing reports that would  lead the people of those countries to believe that Australia was in a state of lawlessness. An attempt- is being made to create the impression that a reign of terror exists in Australia, and that bolsheviks, communists, and the representatives of all revolutionary elements throughout the world have taken control of the country. Extracts from the principal British newspapers are appearing in our newspapers in which comment is made upon current Australian, events. As an Australian citizen and a representative of the people in one of the  branches of our national Legislature, I desire to tell those persons responsible for such paragraphs that no such conditions as are reported exist in Australia. 
The motion has been submitted to assist the Government to complete its business and enable an appeal to be made to the electors in an endeavour to crush what is termed the communistic and bolshevik element operating in Australia to-day. As an Australian, and a representative of the people, I give the lie direct to those making the libellous and slanderous statements that are appearing in the press. The Government is going to . the country in an endeavour to crush the British seamen, who have conducted themselves in a most exemplary way. Instead of the police being compelled to use force in arresting the seamen, the men have marched in a body to jail. 
An appeal is being made by the Prime Minister with the object of crushing the British seamen. What are they asking for? Merely that their monthly wage of £10 shall not be reduced. The whole power of the Government is to be used to prevent them from receiving a living wage on which to maintain themselves, their wives, and their children. I wish to repeat the statement made by  Mr. Lloyd  George after the termination of the war, when he said, "Victory is ours,  and England will be a land in which heroes will be able to live." Who made it possible for the Allies to achieve victory ? The members of the British mercantile marine assisted in that direction, and they are the men who are to-day fighting for their rights- 
I have also allowed  Senator Hannan  to digress somewhat, but I reminded the honorable senator that his remarks were not relevant to the motion. Any further discussion must be directly relevant to the subject-matter of the motion moved by the Minister for Home and Territories  (Senator Pearce). 
Order ! The honorable senator is not in order in referring to the strike of British seamen. That is a matter which can be discussed on the motion for the first reading of the Supply Bill. To debate it at this juncture is irrelevant. 
Order ! 
I can well imagine circumstances in which it would be highly desirable to support a motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders, so that the proposal before the chamber might be considered without going through the usual procedure. On this occasion, however, we are asked to suspend the Standing Orders to enable a most contentious measure to be discussed. The bill, which it is proposed to introduce, relates to the imposition of Customs duties. 
It has everything to do with it, and the honorable senator knows it. The proposal is to amend a most important act upon our statute-book, and one which affects our glorious policy of protection. The bill relates to the policy of those who are alleged to be ardent supporters of the policy of protection which is responsible for creating vast armies of unemployed, and under which the Government receives large sums in ' revenue through the Customs House. We are informed year after year by these gentlemen that Customs duties are imposed for the purpose of excluding goods manufactured in lowwage foreign protectionist countries, in order that Australian workmen may have an opportunity to produce similar goods in the Commonwealth. Those who have given the matter any consideration are well aware that the sole reason for the existence of the Customs Department and the introduction of this measure is to protect, not the Australian workmen or the Australian manufacturer, but the Australian land-owner from taxation. That principle has been followed from time immemorial, and the most illustrious exponent of it in the Commonwealth Parliament to-day is the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Pratten).  He knows that so long as the Treasury is well supplied with revenue by his department it is improbable that taxation will be levied by any .other means. That is the object behind this measure, and no doubt there will be further proposals having the same end in view. The following figures show the Customs receipts during the last few years - 

<graphic href="111332192509230_7_0.jpg"></graphic>

As details are unpalatable, I shall not give them. Year by year the Customs taxation is increasing, and despite what may be said to the contrary, it will continue to show an upward tendency. 
I am using it as a reason for declining to suspend the Standing Orders. If they are suspended honorable senators will not have an opportunity to discuss the bill as closely as they would like. 
What is the nature of this bill with which the Government is asking honorable senators to deal so hurriedly ? It proposes to amend the principal act, by inserting the following provision - "151a. - (l) Where in or under any Customs Tariff, whether passed before or after the commencement of this section, duties of Customs are imposed upon goods the produce or manufacture of the United1 Kingdom, the following goods shall, subject to this section, be deemed to be the produce or manufacture of  that country : - 
Goods which are wholly produced or wholly manufactured in the United Kingdom : . 
Provided that goods shall not be deemed to be wholly manufactured in the United Kingdom if, in the raw material used; or in the finished goods, any manufacturing process has been performed in any country outside the United Kingdom (other than Australia) which is being commercially performed in the United Kingdom ; 
It appeared to me that honorable senators were not fully acquainted with the contents of the bill, and I was merely endeavouring to, place before them some of its salient features. If there were any particular urgency for the passage of the measure I should not object to the suspension of the Standing Orders. The week before last, at the instigation of the Government, the Senate suspended its sittings. Why could not this bill have been brought forward then, so that we should have an opportunity to discuss it fully ? This is typical of the action that we may expect will be taken in the next few days. I should not be surprised if we are frequently asked to suspend the Standing Orders in order that important measures, including another Customs Bill that is now being considered by another place, may be guillotined through this chamber. Unless no other course is open to it, the Senate should not agree to suspend its Standing Orders. Many persons hold the belief that Parliament is a place in which work is done. It is not; it as a place in which to talk. The Senate * has a very comprehensive list of Standing Orders that have been framed for the express purpose of conferring upon honorable senators the right to discuss fully any matta!- that is brought before them. Measures that are hurriedly passed .are as hurriedly repealed. We do not desire to -see such legislation placed on the statute-book. We should jealously guard our rights. I am entirely opposed .to the suspension of our Standing Orders, particularly in connexion with such an exceedingly contentious measure, that has been shrewdly conceived and should, therefore, receive from us the most earnest consideration that we can give to it. The bill was placed in my hands only a few minutes ago, and I have not yet had time to study it properly. For that reason, and others I have given, I must oppose the motion. 
I also, protest against suspending the Standing Orders for the reason put forward by the Government. I agree with what my .Leader  (Senator Gardiner)  has said. The Government has already a mandate from the people. No other Government in the Commonwealth has enjoyed such an overwhelming majority as it has in either House. Tt ' can do whatever it likes  Yet it proposes to go to the people and ask for a fresh mandate, not because of something which has been brought about by Australians, but because something has happened in another part of the world. Some of our .kith and kin have come to Australia, saying, " We were not notified of this happening before we left our country, and we .send out an S.O.S. to you Australians to ask you to help us." 
The only legits Mate excuse the Government has in calling the Senate together a month before it originally intended to do so .is to pass Supply to enable it to carry on the functions of government during the. holding of an election. Yet now it asks us to suspend the Standing Orders to validate a schedule of Customs duties. I am a protectionist. I would impose a prohibitive tariff to enable Australia to build up its industries, and  equip  itself in every possible way to do every thing a nation requires to do for its own welfare and self-protection. But I know that this schedule imposes duties on some articles which cannot be made in Australia, and I am asked to suspend the Standing Orders to enable that stupid thing to be done. I repeat that the Government is not warranted in asking the Senate tq do anything except grant Supply. The Leader of my party in another place told the Government long ago that, although it had a majority, it was so supine, helpless, and weak, and its party was so disintegrated, that the position was unsatisfactory to the people of Australia. 
I thought that I was on sound ground in putting forward reasons why they should not be suspended, and why the Government should not dream of asking for their suspension, for the reason the Minister has advanced. 
I am not concerned about that. I welcome an election. I echo what has been said by another honorable senator. I should welcome a double dissolution. 
Following the suspension of the Standing Orders, this bil) will be put through, and for a period covering the elections certain Customs duties will be collected. 
This bill will have a vital effect upon the collection of Customs duties. 
I thank you,  Mr. President,  for your guidance; but the bill makes provision for the collection of Customs duties according to a schedule which has been submitted in another place, and which will remain in force until after the elections. In the meantime, the merchant will increase the prices of his goods. For instance, the whisky merchant will increase the price of whisky by1d. a nobbier, and will charge me the increased price. If the duty is not validated later on, he will claim a rebate from the Customs Department, but I shall get nothing back. 
I do not wish to delay the Senate, but I emphatically protest that the Government should have asked for one thing only, and that is, Supply, to carry it over the elections. Ministers declare that they want to go to the country as quickly as possible. Very well, let them ask for Supply only, and they will not hear one word from me in objection. Let us get to the people of Australia, and let them say whether they will stand for the crucifying or jailing of English seamen. 
I have finished. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This afternoon it has been said that the Government should do nothing but seek Supply. I remind honorable senators that the Government has a duty to. perform, and that is to see ' that the affairs of the Country are carried on. The Customs Tariff Act provides that the British preferential tariff shall apply to goods the produce or manufacture of the United Kingdom. The description " goods the produce or manufacture of the United Kingdom " requires definition ; otherwise there Would be continual friction and confusion. The first portion of clause 2 of the bill defines the preference conditions. When preference was introduced in 1907, the Minister of the day provided a definition which stipulated that goods containing not less than 25 per cent. of United Kingdom labour or material should be entitled to receive the preference. This arrangement continued in operation until the 1st April last, when new conditions were brought into effect, and these are set out in paragraphs  a, b,  and  c  of the first sub-section of the proposed new section 151a, as set out in clause 2 of the present bill, which is introduced with a view to securing the approval of Parliament. It was found by experience that under the 25 per cent. condition, preference was having an effect quite inconsistent with that in view when the policy was introduced. Owing to the lower labour conditions on the continent, combined with the substantially increased preferences of the 1921 tariff, large quantities of semi-manufactured goods were imported into Great Britain from the continent, veneered there with a mere 25 per cent, of British labour or materials, and exported to Australia with the benefit of the preference. The result was not only to injure Australian industries by subjecting them to the competition through Britain of the cheap products of foreign countries, but also to discourage the use of British materials in Britain. During the Prime Minister's visit to England in 1923 the question was investigated. Leading British manufacturers full)' admitted the abuse which was being made of the preference concession. British manufacturers, who would willingly have used British materials, were forced by the competition of those manufacturers using cheap semi-manufactured continental materials- to adopt the same practices to preserve their business. The Australian Association of British Manufacturers sought "the views of British manufacturers. A circular was sent to 506 British firms, and 272 replies were received. Of this number 226 considered that the percentage to entitle to preference should be 50 per cent, or over. Of the 226, .179 favoured 50 per cent., 38 favoured '75 per cent., and seven thought it should be 100 per cent. The result of this inquiry throws a very vivid light on the total inadequacy of the 25 per cent, condition. It is, however, only to be expected that objections will be raised by those British manufacturers who were largely using the cheap continental materials. Briefly put, the new conditions are as follows : - A British manufacturer may import raw materials of any origin, and, provided those raw materials are not subjected abroad to any process which is being commercially performed in the United Kingdom, and provided all the additional processes necessary to convert the materials into the finished article are performed in the United Kingdom, the finished articles will get preference irrespective of the proportion of British labour and materials. If any process which is a process commercially performed in the United Kingdom is applied abroad either to the materials or in the manufacture of goods therefrom, then British labour and material will have to form 75 per cent- °f the factory cost of the finished article to entitle the goods to preference. 
For example, a British manufacturer may import wool. If all the processes of converting the wool into yarn or cloth are performed in the United Kingdom, the yarn or cloth will be entitled to preference, irrespective of the proportion of British labour or materials. If, however, the British manufacturer imported, say, from France, wool tops for making yarn, or yarn for making cloth, the finished yarn or cloth would have to contain 75 per cent, of British value to get preference. 
They would bo regarded as French goods. The whole object of this measure is to keep the labour within the Empire. A distinction is made in regard to Australian materials. A British manufacturer may import Australian material at any stage of manufacture and, provided he does all the rc-st of the work in the United Kingdom, the goods will get the preference. A further exception is also made. Where the goods are of a class or kind not manufactured in Australia, 25 per cent, of British labour or material will suffice to entitle them to the preference. 
.- I hope that the Minister  (Senator Wilson)  will consent to the ad,journment of this debate. To my mind, this is one of the most important measures that the Senate has been called upon to discuss. Any bill that attempts to interfere with the trade of Great Britain should receive our serious consideration; but, following the brief explanation given by the Minister, it is impossible for one to discuss fully the details of this measure. Since the Minister is evidently not prepared to adjourn the debate, I shall have a few words to say. The Minister, in reply to an interjection, indicated that wool manufactured into wool tops in France would be regarded as of French origin on entering Great Britain. Do we really want to trade with the Old Country? Personally, I do. I want Australia to trade with Great Britain, irrespective of any handicap placed upon her products. Remembering the conditions existing in Great Britain to-day, it is hardly fitting far anybody in Australia to prate about the Empire, and at the same time place further restrictions on British trade. I do not imagine for a moment that any member of the Commonwealth Government can solve the difficulties with which British manufacturers have to contend in holding their position in the markets of the world, and particularly those of Australia. A regulation was made some time ago requiring 25 per cent. of British manufacture in goods to which the preference was to. be extended. That margin has not proved sufficient to prevent British goods partly manufactured in other countries from coming' to Australia. For instance, the pulp from which paper is made in Great Britain is manufactured in Norway or Sweden; but we now say that 75 per cent of the labour and material used in the manufacture of paper must be British if the preferential rate is to be secured. We are not producing paper to any extent in Australia. 
Why put a handicap an Great Britain now in the hope that, later on we shall be producing paper here? If ever there was a government that appeared to have an undying hostility to the Mother Country it is the present Ministry, which, by legislation, has treated Great Britain, not as the mother of the Empire, but as a country that is not entitled to an advantage of more than 5 per cent. or 10 per cent. over countries for which we have no respect. Whereas our products enter Great Britain practically free of duty, British goods are penalized to the extent of 10, 20, 30, and even over 50 per cent. on coming to this country, which Las developed under Britain's policy of free harbours and free trade. Why should we impose any handicap at all on British goods coming here? If it is found that one country can undertake a certain stage of the manufacture of a particular article, and another can complete the process more economically and successfully than any other, thus giving the public a cheaper and better article than could be otherwise obtained,- why should the purchasers of that commodity say, " Although it is the most effective method of manufacturing, we shall not let you land it here"? 
Some honoiable senators believe that high tariffs mean high wages, but I do not subscribe to that doctrine. Every time the tariff is raised unemployment increases. We see Western Australia and Tasmania withering like leaves under our destructive fiscal policy. If there is one criminal act for which this. Government is to be held responsible - and I am now employing the phraseology used by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  outside Parliament - it is this blow that the Government is striking at Great Britain and her trade, by taxing the industries of Great Britain. 
Order! That has nothing to do with the question before the Chair. 
, - In order to satisfy a doubt raised in my mind by the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Gardiner)  I desire to ask the Minister  (Senator Wilson)  if, when he replies to the debate on the second reading, he will state if it is not a fact that the requirement under this bill that the manufacturers of Great Britain, instead of being asked to use 25 per cent, of British labour or material in the articles on which they claim a preferential tariff, shall use 75 per cent., will not to a large extent benefit the vast body of unemployed alluded to by the honorable senator? I should also like to know whether this is not a friendly, and not an unfriendly, act on the part of the Government towards the unemployed of Great Britain and Great Britain generally. 
I do not for a moment imagine that the Government is anxious to extend Australia's trade with Great 
Britain. We know it is not. It is only a few weeks ago that Parliament decided to remove the preference afforded to Great Britain in the matter of newsprint, and to place the American manufacturers on the same basis as British manufacturers. 
Only a few weeks ago. Under the policy previously in operation, the volume of trade in newsprint from Great Britain steadily increased and that from Canada decreased, and supplies from the United States of America were reduced to a negligible quantity. The trade with Great Britain increased because of the preference given to Great Britain as against Canada. Notwithstanding that, the Government has now decided to reduce the preference previously in operation. 
I was merely referring to it in a casual way, and showing that, although the Government pretends to be in favour of increasing the trade with Great Britain, on a recent occasion it did something which had an entirely different effect. I agree very largely with the views expressed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Gardiner).  It appears to me that we cannot very well debate this question without becoming involved in a fiscal discussion. If I were satisfied that the proposal would have the effect the Government claim I would not oppose it, but I do not think it will. One of the strongest arguments used in support of federation was that under a Federal scheme State Customs barriers would be swept away. That has been achieved. Interstate barriers have now been dispensed with, but the Government, instead of facilitating trade between all portions of the Empire, is restricting it by professing to give a concession to Great Britain. So far as I can see, the preferential proposals of the Government will be of no value to Great Britain, and will be of no more benefit than the alleged concessions given in connexion with Canadian preference. In view of these facts, I intend to oppose the bill. 
 I am somewhat surprised at the statements made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Gardiner)  and  Senator J.  Grant. In moving the second reading of the bill I stated that of 506 British manufacturers approached concerning the preference to be given, 272 replied. Of that number 226 were in favour of a preference of 50 per cent. and over. Of the 226, 179 supported a 50 per cent. preference; 38, 75 per cent.; and seven, 100 per cent. Under this proposal work will be kept within the Empire, and unscrupulous manufacturers in Great Britain prevented  from taking advantage of Australia's preferences. On the old basis that British goods should contain 25 per cent. of British labour or material, it was found that a number of manufacturers were operating unfairly, and an alteration was necessary, not only in our interests, but in order to protect the manufacturers of Great Britain who were " playing the game." After the most careful scrutiny of the proposal under which preference is to be given on articles in which 75 per cent. of British labour or material is used, I do not think any fault can be found with it ' What would be the use of giving preference to British manufacturers if we allowed some to secure the preferential rates in respect of products that should be subject to the higher or general tariff. As I am sure that honorable senators will not subscribe to a principle under which some manufacturers derive an unfair advantage, I trust the Senate will support the second reading of the bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee': 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 - 
For the purposes of the last three preceding sub-sections the Minister may, from time to time, determine - 
what shall be deemed to be raw materials and in any suchdetermination may include materials partially manufactured in Australia; 
the method of determining factory and works cost and the value of labour and material; and 
whether any manufacturing process is being commercially performed in the United Kingdom and whether any goods are of a class or kind not commercially manufactured in Australia, and shall be notified in the  Commonwealth Gazette. 
StatutoryRules 1925, No. 20, shallbe deemed to have been valid and effectual from the time of their making to the commencement of this section. 
 Those portions of the bill under which such extensive powers are given tothe Minister should be deleted. The tariff generally is so objectionable to the whole of the people that we are always confronted with difficulties arising out of it, and those who suffer the most get the Minister or the Tariff Board, which really acts under the direction of the Minister, to relieve them of their difficulties. Those who are able to place their case before the Minister obtain relief, whilst those who suffer and pay do not obtain any consideration. In legislation such as this the powers of the Minister should be fixed, and Parliament should deprive the Minister of the right to discriminate. 
No ; because the regulations would come before Parliament. 
When Parliament is not in session the regulations must be laid before both Houses within a specified time after Parliament meets. Parliament itself should decide the conditions under which trade shall be conducted between twodifferent countries. Honorable senators must realize how seriously an alteration in the tariff affects importers, and such alterations should not be made by the Minister, but by Parliament. During recess the Minister has power to frame regulations that will be effective for perhaps six months. It may be that the Minister and the members of the Tariff Board listen only to one side of the case, and after having done so, regulations are framed which will be in operation until Parliament meets. In our tariff laws, we should depart from that principle. Parliament should pass the best tariff of which it is capable, and every one should work under ituntil it is altered by Parliament. Subclause 4 reads: - 
For the purposes of the last three preceding sub-sections the Minister may, from time to time, determine - 
what shall be deemed to. be raw materials and in any such determination may include materials partially manufactured in Australia; 
the method of determining factory and works cost and the value of labour and material; and 
whether any manufacturing process is being commercially performed in the United Kingdom and whether any goods are of a class or kind not commercially manufactured in Australia, and shall he notified in the  Commonwealth Gazette. 
Why should such power be given to a Minister? He may make a regulation. Some one may show that it is wrong, and he may alter it. Some one else may then come along and show that it is still wrong, and he may alter it again. For the next six or eight years there will be Labour Ministers in power in the Commonwealth, but I would not give even them this power. If a Minister is to be allowed to make these alterations, why should he not also be allowed to alter the tariff, if it suits him to do so? I move: 
That the words " Forthe purposes of the last three preceding sub-sections the Minister may, from time to time, determine," he left out. 
If the committee agrees to the deletion of those words I shall move to insert others in their place. 
I support the amendment. The measure should clearly lay down what the Minister can do, and be so definite in its terms that there will be no mistaking its meaning. Probably no body of men in Australia has caused more dissatisfaction than" the Tariff Board. It is clothed with very extensive powers, and at one time could hold its inquiries behind closed doors. It is now proposed to set up another authority in the form of the Minister. Under this provision he may, without consulting anybody, frame regulations which may set aside the decisions of this Parliament. Instead of clothing the Minister with such power we should insert in the bill a provision so definite that every one will know exactly where he stands. Any one who reads the reports of the Tariff Board cannot avoid.  coming to the conclusion that its decisions invariably benefit only a small number of persons. I do not want the Minister to be clothed with such power that those who may be affected by his decisions will not know where they stand. I shall, therefore, vote for the amendment. 
It is usual for regulations to be laid upon the table of Parliament, in addition to being notified in the  Gazette. 
Will they have to remain on the table for 30 days before becoming effective? 
Will it be competent for Parliament to disallow them? 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill gives effect to the announcement in the Treasurer's budget speech that the Government intended to increase the general exemption from entertainments tax to all payments for admission to entertainments where the charge is less than 2s. 6d. The present general exemption is1s. The present rate of tax is1d. in the first1s., where the payment for admission to a taxable entertainment is 1s. or over, and id. for each 6d. or part of 6d. by which the payment for admission exceeds1s. The present bill adheres to the existing basic rates, and accordingly provides that on the first 2s. 6d. of any payment for admission of 2s. 6d. or over, the tax shall be 2½d.., and id. for each 6d. or part of 6d. by which the payment for admission exceeds 2s. 6d. I think that this measure will meet the wishes of the general public, especially those who can enjoy going to the pictures. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Entertainments tax). 
The proposed reduction in the entertainments tax has been too long delayed. The Senate has not been informed to what extent the reduction -will effect the revenue, but that fact does not disturb me. The greater the reduction the more I appreciate it, because the taxation of amusements is most vicious. It is  undoubtedly a direct tax on the poorest section of ' the community, and it was only introduced in the Commonwealth to assist in defraying the cost  of  the late war. The exemption of tickets up to 2s. 6d. is  a  step in the right direction. The bill is not too clear, but  I  take it that the tax on tickets costing 2s. 6d. will be 2½d., and that if the charge for admission exceeds 2s. 6d the tax will be 2½d., plus½d. for each 6d. or part of 6d. by which the charge for admission exceeds 2s. 6d.  I  take it also that if the ticket of admission costs 2s. 5d. it will be free from taxation. Quite recently  I  tried  to  have widows exempted from the payment of estate duty on estates up to £5,000 in value, but the Government could not see its way to agree to my proposal, mainly on the ground that the revenue would suffer. Yet it can bring forward  a  proposal to make the revenue, suffer considerably by exempting a very large section of the community from the payment of entertainments tax. This type of legislation should never have been placed on our statute-book, and I welcome its repeal, even to the small extent proposed. There are many other sources of revenue at our disposal, and we should retire altogether from the field of taxing the amusements of the people. 
I wonder if the Minister would consider a proposal that would afford considerable relief to the musical world. I suggest that the exemption should extend to entertainments the charge for admission to which is 2s. 6½d. That would enable persons paying 2s. 6d. for a ticket to escape the payment of the tax 
I could not accept the honorable senator's suggestion. Exhaustive inquiries have been made by the department, and the point raised by the honorable senator has not been overlooked. 
The loss to the revenue by the proposed reduction of the tax is estimated at £360,000 per annum. 
Clause agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without request; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This bill appropriates into a trust fund the sum of £1,500,000 for naval construction to meet obligations already entered into in connexion with the construction of cruisers and submarines. It is also intended to commence the construction of a seaplane carrier at Cocka-  too Island, and an order for a large quantity of material for the construction of this carrier has already been placed. It is hoped that the building of this very necessary adjunct to our fleet will be commenced at Cockatoo Island at  a  very early date, and that the work of construction will be completed within two years. The purpose of this bill is simply to pay the sum of £1,500,000 from the Consoldated Revenue into a trust fund. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
.- I move- 
That the bill he now read a second time. 
This measure provides for the appropriation of a further £10,000,000 for the payment of war pensions. It deals in no way with the rates and conditions of pensions, but merely provides the money to pay pensions which have been or will be granted in accordance with the conditions set out in the war pensions sections of the Australian Soldiers' Repatriation Act. When it is remembered that the war, which necessitated the granting of these pensions, broke out in 1914-15, and that the pensions of incapacitated soldiers and dependants of deceased soldiers totalled more than £129,000 in the following year, it will be seen that the Commonwealth was prompt to recognize and meet its liability in this regard. The pension bill rose each year in leaps and bounds until, in 1920-21 the maximum payment of £7,389,739 was reached. Very little reduction has been made since then, and the estimated expenditure for the current year is £7,200.000. Included in this amount is a small sum for the payment of pensions granted by the Mother Country, and for dominions, which will be subsequently recovered . 
The practice is to appropriate sums from time to time as the money becomes available, and to pay them into' the trust fund. The total number of pensions in force on the 11th of this month was 246,152, whilst the annual liability was £7,063,306. A considerable number of new claims is still being received, the majority of which are in respect of new dependants, such as newlyborn children and recently married wives of ex-soldiers who are pensioners. Up to the close of last financial year, the total expenditure on war pensions was £50,810,959. The last War Pensions Appropriation Act was passed in August, 1924, the amount of the appropriation being £10,000,000. The balance of this appropriation remaining unexpended at the close of last financial year was £3,689,765. This will barely suffice for six months' payment, and therefore, a further appropriation becomes necessary. It is anticipated that the appropriation now asked for will cover the expenditure for approximately eighteen months, and that is why the amount exceeds the annual requirement. 
It is somewhat pleasing to know that the expenditure on war pensions has reached its peak, and is gradually decreasing. 
They show a slight decrease. I desire to bring under the notice of the Government a case in which, in my opinion, justice has not been received by a returned man. 
No. I do not intend to take full advantage of the opportunity the bill affords me of discussing the administration of the department, but I think that it should exercise a good deal more sympathy than it has done in some of its administrative acts. 
The Minister  (Senator Pearce)  is right in saying that matters of administration could more properly be discussed on a Supply Bill, which would cover, not merely the administration of, but also the details of expenditure on, war pensions. I am not prepared, however, to rule that  Senator Grant  would be out of order in bringing forward any matter relevant to war pensions on a bill which appropriates money for the payment of those pensions. To so rule would be to unduly restrict the rights of honorable senators. 
I shall certainly have the case brought under the notice of the Minister. I am inclined to think that there must be some disqualification, because the regulations specifically set out the class of cases entitled to payment for an attendant. I do not think that a matter of his kind is. left to the determination of the Minister. 
If in a ease of this kind the soldier is entitled to the allowance, reference to the Minister should be unnecessary. The fact that it has not been paid suggest? that such cases do not come within the provisions of the act, . and I presume that the Minister could not do otherwise than refuse. Unquestionably, a man is helpless if Be has lost both legs. If what the honorable senator has said is correct, it may be necessary to amend the act or the regulations. I shall have his remarks brought under the notice of the Minister. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - 
That  the bill, be now read a second time. 
This is merely a machinery measure to  place  the administration of the War Service Homes Act under the Department of Works and Railways. It is necessary  that  the  chairman  of the Repatriation  Commission should be relieved of the duties of War Service Homes Commissioner, and it is proposed under this bill to appoint the Secretary of the Works and Railways Department to that office. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The object of the bill is to give effect to the promise contained in the Treasurer's budget speech that the maximum rate qf invalid and old-age pensions -would be increased to £1 per week. It is proposed that the act shall come into operation on the 8tb October, 1925, on which date al! pensions then in force will' be increased by 53. per fortnight. In order that pensioners may still earn 12s. 6d. per week without affecting the amount of their pensions, it is also proposed to raise the statutory limit of income from £78 to £S4 10s. per annum. The position will then be as under - 

<graphic href="111332192509230_20_1.jpg"></graphic>

Thus, under the act when amended by this bill, a single man will be able to receive pension and income together amounting to £S"4 10s. per annum, or 32s. 6d. per week, whilst a married couple receiving pensions will be able to have a total income, including pensions, of £169 per annum, or £3 5s. per week. It is also intended to increase the amount of allowance which is paid to pensioner inmates of benevolent asylums and hospitals from 3s. to 4s. per week. Prior to 1923 a limited class of persons who were inmates of benevolent asylums were eligible to receive special pensions of 2a. per week only. Other inmates of asylums, and all inmates of hospitals, were ineligible to receive any pension. As a result of the 1923 amendment, all inmates of asylums, whether they were previously pensioners or not, were granted pensions of 3s. per week provided they would have been eligible for pensions if resident outside the institutions. Payment of this amount was also authorized in the ease of all pensioners who were inmates of hospitals for more than 28 days. As a result of the proposed amendment, these persons will in future receive 4s. per week instead of. 3s. The cost of invalid and oldage pensions last year amounted, roughly, to £7,000,000. With the increase in pensions provided for by the- bill under consideration the total annual payment will amount to over £8,000,000. 

 Senator J. GRANT (New South Wales) [5.45). - I wish to take advantage of this opportunity to dispose of the claim made by honorable senators opposite that the party which they represent was responsible for the introduction of the scheme of old-age and invalid pensions in the Commonwealth. That is not so. This matter was discussed by the executive of the Australian Labour party in New South Wales very many years ago. A deputation waited upon the late  Sir William  Lyne, who promised that, if he. became Premier of Now South Wales, a measure for the payment of old-age pensions would be introduced. Some trouble occurred, engineered, I believe, by  Mr. Holman, Mr. Hall,  and probably the -Eight  Hon.  W. M. Hughes, who were then known fis the three "H's," with the result that the late  Sir George  Reid was defeated, and the late  Sir William  Lyne took his place as Premier of New South Wales. Shortly afterwards a measure for the payment of old-age pensions was placed upon the statutebook, with the unanimous support of the Labour party in New South Wales. The pressure then exerted by the Labour party was entirely responsible for the passage of that legislation. 
I do not object to the proposed increase to  £1  a week. It could have been paid immediately it was ascertained that the Treasurer had a surplus of about £4,000,000 at the close of the last financial year. We may take it that this bill has been introduced because the Government proposes to have a general election on the 14th November. The first increased payment is to be made on the 8th October. I suppose it would be useless t.o submit amendments of a general character at this stage, but if that could be done it would be an advantage. Many persons receiving a pension require some one to look after them, but if they leave a home, of which they are the owner, to receive the attention of a member of the family who may be. living elsewhere, their pension is reduced or they are deprived of the right to collect a pension. A case came under my notice a few days ago of an old man living in his own home, who removed to the residence of his daughter for attention, but because he owned a property he was not entitled to collect a pension. I do not think it was ever intended that the act should operate in that way. As it is I suppose useless to submit amendments, I merely cite this case which is typical of many others, so that when a general amendment of the act is under consideration, cases such as these will receive, the attention of the Government. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5 - 
Section 45 of the principal act is amended by omitting from the proviso thereto the word " three " and inserting in its stead the word "four." 

 Section -proposed to be amended - // a pensioner becomes an inmate of an asylum for the insane or a hospital..... 


 Provided that when a pensioner has remained an inmate of a hospital for a period of twenty-eight days he shall, upon the expiration of that period* and so long thereafter as he remains an inmate, be entitled to receive a pension at the rate of three shillings per week. 

.- I should like the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  to consider an amendment to clause 4 to leave out the word " four " and to insert in lieu thereof the word " five." As we are granting pensioners an additional 2s. 6d. per week, we should' also provide that the pensioner inmates of hospitals should receive 5s. a week for themselves. If such an amendment were adopted the hospitals would receive an additional 6d., and the. pensioner inmate would benefit to the extent of an additional ls. A pensioner has to be in hospital 28 days before the pension is payable, during which time his expenses are going on, and the amount provided is not sufficient to keep him even in tobacco. Those pensioners .who have to go to homes and hospitals should receive more than the additional ls. proposed. 
I hope the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Gardiner)  will not move in the direction he suggests, because the pensioner inmate of a hospital or a home is certainly in a better position than a pensioner living elsewhere. Whilst a pensioner inmate of a hospital or home will receive 4s. to spend, I doubt very much whether a pensioner who has to keep himself will have that amount to spend on incidentals. The pensioner inmates of institutions are provided with a home and with clothing. 
They are in homes. In Western Australia such pensioners are clothed, fed, and sheltered. In such circumstances they are better off than a pensioner who has to clothe and feed himself, and find shelter on 20s. a week. 
Pensioner inmates of hospitals do not require clothing; they are in bed. 
They would not be in hospital if they were able to walk about. Those at convalescent homes, however, would be wearing clothes. For the reasons given I ask the honorable senator not to move the amendment he suggests. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 6 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
It would perhaps meet the convenience of the committee if I explained the effect of the amendments made by the House of Representatives. Only three principles are involved. In the bill, which originated in the Senate, we conferred the franchise upon British Indians. To this the House of Representatives has agreed, but it has also extended the franchise to naturalized Asiatics. That may sound somewhat alarming, but there is really no occasion for alarm, since there are relatively few naturalized Asiatics in Australia. They' consist mainly of Pales tinian Jews, Syrians, and Armenians. Beyond these there are not a great number of naturalized Asiatics in Australia. We have not been naturalizing other than these since the passing of the Nationality Act, and prior to the passing of that act, under our naturalization laws, Asiatics were excluded from naturalization. A certain class of Syrians are still ineligible ; the privilege is enjoyed only by Christian Syrians. 
I could not answer that question offhand. This will bring our law into conformity with that of most of the States. 

 -(Senator Newland). - I think it would meet the convenience of the committee if the Minister submitted the amendments  en bloc. 
That the amendments made by the House of Representatives be agreed to. 
Am I right in assuming that any person who is resident in the Territory will be eligible to become a candidate for Parliament ? 
Without having his name on any roll'? 
Motion agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
The House of Representatives has madeonly three alterations to the bill that was sent to them by the Senate. Under the law, as it stands at present, any person, to be eligible as a candidate for the Northern Territory, must be an elector who is entitled to vote at the election of a member to represent the Northern Territory ; in other words, he must be a resident of the Northern Territory. The amendment of the House of Representatives makes the qualification similar to that of a candidate in any other Federal constituency; that is, he must be an elector entitled to vote at the election of a member of the House of Representatives.In future, therefore, so long as a person is an elector in any part of the Commonwealth he may be a candidate for the Northern Territory. 
-It has come to the conclusion that the Northern Territory should not be treated differently from any other constituency. A further amendment of the House of Representatives relates to the time for holding an election ill the Northern Territory. Experience has taught us that it is not possible, in the case of the Northern Territory, to fix the same time as is fixed for other constituencies throughout Australia, because of the long distances that have to be travelled and the slow and inefficient means of transport. The amendment provides that the elections shall be held as near as is practicable to the time fixed for other constituencies. 
No. The other alteration is merely a technical one. The officer' administering the act has been known as the Registrar of the Supreme Court. His title has been changed to that of Clerk of the SupremeCourt, . and it has been necessary to alter the phraseology to make it conform to that difference in title. Imove - 
That the amendments made by the House of Representatives be agreed to. 
Motion agreed to. 
Resolution reported ; report adopted . 
.- I move- 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
Although the measure comprises 24 clauses, it is not nearly so formidable as it appears. It contains only one or two important principles, and it is necessary to pass it in order that the revenue of the Commonwealth may be protected. That is the Government's justification for bringing it forward at this juncture. The bill deals with the following subjects : - 
It cures the position which was recently created by a judgment of the High Court, which declared the Board of Appeal that had been provided for in the existing act to be invalid, and to have been unconstitutionally appointed. The cure of this position involves: - (a) The re-creation of the board under new circumstances and under a new name; (b) the validation of the past acts of the Board of Appeal in cases which were dealt with by it; (c) the consequential validation of assessments, decisions and determinations of the Commissioner of Taxation, so as to make complete the validation of the board's decisions; (d) the amendment of certain sections of the principal act containing references to the Board of Appeal, so that the rest of those sections may operate validly; (e) proper provision for the lodging of objections to assessments, decisions and determinations of the Commissioner of Taxation, so that they may be brought either before the new board or before the courts at the option of the taxpayer. 
The amendment of the existing law so that co-operative companies may, in future, be assessed only on undistributed income, and not on the total surplus income as at present, before distributions are made to shareholders. 
SenatorFoll. - The new board may be declared illegal. 
No. It complies with the judgment of the court. The following subjects are also dealt with by the bill:- 
Provision to permit the Commissioner of Taxation to adjust income tax assessments for all years which affect special contracts extending over a period of three years, such as the contract for the North Sydney Bridge, so that the proper amount of income tax shall be paid in each of the years of the contract, instead of as at present, upon estimates of profit or loss which may have no relation whatever to the final result of the contract. 
The imposition of a time limit of three years within which amendments of assessments may be made under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1915-1921. At present there is no time limit upon the Commissioner of Taxation under that act. It is: considered there should be such a limit similar to that imposed upon the Commissioner under the 1922-1924 act in respect of assessments under that act. Many people have a strong objection to what is known as retrospective legislation!; but this bill is not retrospective in the true sense. At any rate, it is not that type of retrospective legislation about which the taxpayer has any right to complain. Parliament, thinking it desirable that the taxpayer who felt that he had been hardly dealt with by the Commissioner of Taxes, should have a board to which he could appeal from the assessment of the Commissioner, appointed such a board; but it never intended that the taxpayer should, because of a decision of the High Court regarding the constitutionality of that board, be permitted to escape from the payment of taxation justly due by him. Parliament had conferred an advantage on the taxpayer by giving him a second review of the assessment made by the Commissioner, but because the High Court held that the board thus constituted was unconstitutional, owing to the phraseology of the provisions of the act, that does not mean that the High Court also held that the taxation which the taxpayers were called upon to pay should not be paid. No taxpayer is wronged if we now validate what was originally intended to be done; that is, to give him the right to some review of his assessment. To say that large numbers of people should be allowed to avoid paying taxation which is justly due by them because the law was not quite in conformity with the Constitution, and. because a board of the kind contemplated could not be appointed in the particular way which was adopted, is a strained interpretation of what is, or is not, retrospective legislation. The Board of Appeal, between the time of its appointment and when it was declared unconstitutional, gave a number of findings, some to the advantage of the taxpayer, and some against the interests of the taxpayer, from his point of view. These findings have now to be validated. By this bill we still retain a review of the Commissioner's findings by a board of review. 
Probably there are ; but that fact does not interfere with the principle laid down by the High Court, that this board cannot be regarded: as a court of appeal. It is to be no longer a court of appeal; it will be a board of review. That is the only retrospective feature of this bill. 
The board will advise the Commissioner. It is felt that the Commissioner cannot go into every case, and that where there is a difference of opinion, opportunity should be given to some, one to investigate the matter and report to the Commissioner. 
The limit is three years. There are other features of the bill which are retrospective, but, of course, they all hinge on the declaration by the High Court that the Board of Appeal was unconstitutional. 
It would be a great mistake to pass this bill. 
This is an amendment to the second most obnoxious act that has ever found its way on our statute-book. 
The honorable senator- must not reflect on an act of this Parliament. 
Act, the Government brought down a proposal to abolish the tax, it would have my very enthusiastic support. Many people were of the opinion that it was not competent for the Commonwealth to impose either an income or a land tax, but of course they were mistaken, because the Constitution gives this Parliament unlimited powers of taxation. I think that is a good thing. This afternoon we have witnessed a very small evacuation by the Commonwealth Government of the field of direct taxation, inasmuch as it has repealed an important section of the entertainments tax, under which £360,000 per annum was collected. 

 Sitting suspended from 6.30 to S p.m. 

I remind the honorable senator that it has been ruled- over and over again that the discussion on an amending bill must relate only to the sections of the principal act which it is proposed to amend. The general question of the imposition of income taxation, or whether a tax on incomes is good or bad, does not really arise in connexion with this measure. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Clauses  1  to  18  agreed to. 
.- I  move- 
That the following new clause be inserted: - 18(a) This  act  shall not apply to or affect the following: - 
The taxation business of any company upon which  a  notice purporting to be  a  determination by the Commissioner has been given, or which has been served with a notice of demand requiring additional tax to be paid under authority of section 21 of the principal act, in every instance where the validity of such demand has been, and is, disputed; or 
the taxation of any company on behalf of which the Commissioner has been notified or otherwise made aware that his power to impose and demand additional tax under authority of section 21 of the principal act is disputed, and that such claim would be invalid: or 
any application for a refund  vi  additional tax that has been improperly claimed by the Commissioner and paid by or on behalf of a company in obedience to such improper demand by the Commissioner; or 
any demand for additional tax in respect of which a writ out of the High Court or the Supreme Court of a State has been issued by the Crown, determination of which has not yet been finalized; or 
the appeal, case of the. British Imperial Oil Company Limited; or 
the decision of the High Court in respect of the appeal case of the AustralianTesselated Company Limited. 
During the second-reading debate I pointed out how unfair it was to penalize by a validating bill taxpayers who had established their position in an action before the High Court. I am not dealing with the equity of income tax at all, although I think it is most inequitable. The question is whether Parliament should come to the assistance of the Commissioner, and, by an amendment of the act, give him authority to collect certain taxation. Instead of being penalized, these people should be complimented upon their mental alertness in showing that the Commissioner and the legal advisers of the Government, to say nothing of members of Parliament, did not understand the provisions of the measure that had been passed. These taxpayers proved that the demand of the Commissioner was illegal. 
It is not right for Parliament to pass this retrospective legislation and compel people to pay demands which they successfully contested before the High Court. 
I am sure that the committee will not agree to the amendment. Parliament set up the board of appeal, not in the interests of the Commissioner or the revenue, but in the interests of the taxpayers themselves, and it was not until certain taxpayers had challenged the constitution of the board that the discovery was made that it was  ultra  vires  Can that be advanced as a reason why the litigants should escape taxation? If  Senator J.  Grant takes that view, then all I oan say is that it is extraordinary, and I hope the committee will not agree to the amendment.  Senator J.  Grant contends that this action by the Government is reprehensible, because it snatches the possible fruits of a legal victory on a technicality from those persons who have been astute enough to take legal advice and lodge with the Commissioner of Taxation special expressions of their dissatisfaction with assessments, determinations, and decisions. By their appeal to the High Court they hoped to escape the tax which Parliament obviously intended to apply to them. Those who did not express their dissatisfaction to the Commissioner would still be liable to pay the tax, notwithstanding that equity would require that they should be placed in the same position as those who: hoped to succeed on a technicality. If it had not been for the fact that Parliament made a mistake in the method it adopted in an attempt to give effect to the widely expressed wish of the taxpaying public that a board of appeal should be established to review the decisions of the department of taxation the persons who now seek to escape their just liabilities, would not have had any legal opportunity to appeal to the courts. There is therefore no good reason why they should be specially catered for. as would be the case if  Senator Grant's  amendment were accepted. If the amendment were carried it would nullify the bill, as it would make it possible for a taxpayer to apply to the High Court for an order against the Commissioner of Taxation to refund the tax paid by that taxpayer and such a taxpayer would probably succeed in his action. That would probably mean that the whole of the income tax collected during the past three years would have to be refunded, or that Parliament to protect the revenue from such a huge loss would have to re-enact the Income Tax Assessment Act in the form in which this bill places it. That is the effect of the amendment, and I am .astonished at an honorable senator submitting such a proposal. Having these facts before it I am sure the Senate will not entertain the proposal for a moment. 
I have listened to the Minister (Senator Pearce) and  Senator J.  Grant, and I am of the opinion that the only decent thing the Minister can do is to delete the provision of the bill to which exception is taken. The position is that certain persons acting within their legal rights in resisting the assessments made by the Income Tax Commissioner have had their cases decided in their favour by the High Court. Notwithstanding this, the Government say that although certain taxpayers have proved their case to the satisfaction of a properly constituted court, they will make them pay by passing this measure. The Minister does not. appear in favour of granting even moral justice, and says in effect that those .who have successfully appealed shall not escape. They are to have no  redress. Morally the Government should hand back the amount of tax collected from those who did not appeal. That should be done however costly the procedure is, and irrespective of the amount involved. If certain indi.viduals or companies in resisting what they consider an unfair charge obtained a verdict from the highest court in the country, I shall not be a party to setting aside that verdict by means of retrospective legislation. 
If the machinery employed' was illegal the charge was an unfair one. I realize that the intention of Parliament was all right, but how often is the intention of Parliament set aside by the interpretation placed upon our acts by judges of the High Court. So far as I understand the matter, the High Court has given a decision in favour of certain companies, and we are now asked to pass legislation so that these companies cannot avoid making payments which the court says are illegal. The Government has introduced a bill providing that certain individuals or companies shall pay a tax, which the High 
Court has ruled cannot be legally imposed. Legislation of this character is not creditable to the Government or to Parliament. It is legislation framed with the intention of making some one pay, and the Government is acting wrongfully in endeavouring to make legal an illegal act. We have heard a good deal lately concerning respect for law and order. Where does law and order come in now ? 
I did not say that it robbed them. The Minister has said that the Government intends to set aside the decision of the court. 
We are going in a round-about way to do certain things. The charge would not be legal without this legislation. 
Those who have obtained judgment will not be affected bythis measure, but others in a similar position will be. I do not wish any misunderstanding to occur, but there is likely to be misunderstanding in consequence of the manner in which this legislation is being introduced. J understand from the Minister that those who actually appealed will not be called upon to pay in consequence of the passing of this act. 
The Minister's statement seems to be somewhat shifty. 
I understand that those persons who proved that the action of the Commissioner was illegal will be called upon to pay up. Does the Minister deny that) 
It now appears to me in a worse light than before, because those who took their case to the court will not have to pay any more, whilst those who expressed dissatisfaction, but did not go to court, will have to pay. Is that the position  1 
That is unjust, and because I believe the action of the Government is grossly unfair, I intend to support the amendment moved by  Senator J.  Grant. 
I move - 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
This measure, which deals with the rates at which income tax shall be assessed, levied, and collected for the purposes of the financial year 1925-6, is framed in strict accordance with the terms of tlie Treasurer's announcement in the budget speech, namely, that the Government intended to reduce the rates of tax which applied in the assessment for the financial year 1924-5 by approximately 12$ per cent., making the rates 20 per cent, greater than when the tax was first imposed in 1915-6. It is not proposed to make any alteration in the flat rate of ls. which is charged upon the profits of companies. 
I enter an earnest protest against legislation of this character. The Government, having accepted the challenge to go to the country, now comes forward with a bribe in its hands for a certain section of the community. The use that it is making of its newspaper and secret-service organizations is bad enough, but it is infinitely worse to ask a Parliament that, to all intents and purposes, is dead, to sanction action of this sort. The Leader of the Opposition in another place  (Mr. Charlton)  compelled the Government to appeal to the people, and, in order to honour an undertaking that he entered into, I, this afternoon, allowed measures to go through without saying one word upon them. The Standing Orders have been suspended probably half a dozen times with but one protest from me, when that course was originally proposed. This is the first that I have heard of the Income Tax Bill. The Standing Orders have been suspended, and the Minister proposes to rush it through, in order that persons who have large incomes may be relieved from the payment of a certain amount of their income tax. 
I am gratified at the Minister's acceptance of my assertion that it will give a certain amount of relief to persons with large incomes. I have not had time to read the bill, and therefore I have not been able to ascertain whether it will affect persons with small incomes. 
That is a good reason for opposing it. I shall still have a greater sum than I would be able to earn if I were engaged in useful work. A man who, under existing legislation, has to pay a tax of £50, will, under this measure, Have the amount reduced by £6 5s. I notice that  Senator Wilson  is waiting somewhat impatiently to introduce a bill, the effect of which will be that those whose incomes do not reach £200 a year will be taxed through the Department of Trade and Customs on every piece of cotton goods that they buy for their wives and children. Is that a fair thing ? We are increasing the load that is placed on the shoulders of those who are least able to bear it, whilst ai the same time we are removing a portion of the load that is carried by those who ane well able to bear it. 
When that bill comes before us I shall probably find that it will reduce the burden of those who buy largely, and increase it on those who purchase cotton goods. This measure is in reality a bribe held out on the eve of an election to the big income tax payers. The next measure that is to come before us will be found to have been framed in such a way that it will enable the Government to obtain from the poorer section of the community the revenue that it proposes to forego under this measure. I have been studying the figures relating to employees in secondary industries, and 1 find that the average wage is not greater than £3 12s. a week. Income tax is not paid by those who earn less than £300 a year. 
I do. Does not  Senator Payne,  on the other hand, agree that the working man should be exempt from Customs taxation, some of which is imposed, not for the purpose of building up Australian industries, but purely with the object of raising revenue by taxing the working classes? Clause 4 of the bill reads - 
The rate of the income tax in respect of income from personal exertion shall be as set out in the first schedule to this act. 
The rate of the income tax in respect of income derived from property shall be as set out in the second schedule to this act. 
The rates of the income tax in respect of a total taxable income derived partly from personal exertion and partly from property shall be as set out in the third schedule of this act. 
Notwithstanding anything contained in the last three preceding sub-sections, where a person would, apart from this sub-section, be liable to pay income tax of an amount less than £1, the tax payable by that person shall be £1. 
The rates of the income tax payable by a company shall be as set out in the fourth schedule to this act. 
What is the meaning of sub-clause 4? With one hand it is proposed to take 12J per cent, off the tax that is 1]aid by the big man, whilst with the other hand it is intended to increase to £1 the tax that is paid by those who .would not otherwise pay £1. 
If sub-clause 4 does not mean that a man whose tax at present is 10s. will have to pay £1,1 fail to understand English. 
The minimum of the small taxpayer is to be increased, whilst the big taxpayer will have his tax reduced. 
I admit that the men on the lower rungs of the ladder always have the boot pub into them. What would be said if the act were amended to provide that those who now paid just under £100 should in future pay £100? 
I realize that. Is there any reason why they should not? Earners of small incomes have been taxed at an extraordinary rate for the last ten years. Revenue had to be obtained from somewhere. The Government, however, has in all its legislation and administration considered the interests only of those who have plenty of money. The load of debt is so enormous, the interest payments so substantial, that the Government should refrain from lightening the burden of those who can well afford to pay, especially as it proposes to tax more heavily the harder working and poorer section of the community. 
I do not intend to allow this bill to pass without offering most strenuous opposition to the continuation of the schedules upon which the income tax is collected. I have a distinct recollection, nob perhaps to the credit of members of this Parliament, of the occasion on which this idea of having a graduated scale - it was imported, I believe, from Germany - was first discussed here. I think the then Commonwealth Statistician sent this confounded thing up to ns, and we all looked very wise, but I do not think one of us understood it although we all agreed that it was just "it." Unfortunately a few days afterwards one of the Sydney University professors expressed some doubt as to the accuracy of the scale, and  Mr. Knibbs  reviewed his formula and sent along a fresh one. When that came before us we were no better informed than on the first occasion. We all again looked exceptionally wise, and. we agreed to apply the schedules as submitted, but I venture to say that the number of members of the Commonwealth Parliament with mixed incomes who can calculate exactly the amount of tax they will be charged by the Income Tax Commissioner is negligible. We simply pay what we are asked to pay, looking as pleasant as we can. The schedules are such that we ought to abandon them. I do not think any State in the Commonwealth has been foolish enough to adopt them. 
It is not to its credit if it has done so. Taxation ought to be imposed in such a simple way that any citizen can tell exactly what he has to pay. There are very few, if any, taxpayers who can calculate the amount of Federal income tax they are required to pay. People have either to rely on the assistance of expert agents or to pay what the Commissioner asks. I think I am correct, in saying that the staff of the Taxation Office has been seriously depleted because officers, realizing the weaknesses of the act, have set up in business on their own account, and have made very excellent incomes by piloting their clients through the various loopholes that exist in the act. It is quite common in Sydney and Melbourne and elsewhere to see on signboards the words, "Taxation Experts." A man who is paying taxation through the Customs House knows exactly what he has to pay on every item. Under our famous progressive land tax the landholders, although they do not always pay too promptly, know what they have to pay. Municipal taxation is simplicity itself. It does not matter what is the value of any property in any portion of New South Wales, it is valued by the Valuer-General at so many hundred pounds "and a flat rate of so many pence per pound is applied. The payer at once knows how much ha has to pay. But under the Commonwealth income tax method of graduated curves it is most difficult to calculate what any person has to pay. I should like to see the Government abandon this method and impose a rate of so much per pound, rising with easy breaks, say, at every £50. In that way one would be in a position to calculate the amount of tax to be paid. It should not be necessary for experts to secure lucrative employment in attending to details of assessments, and in helping taxpayers in the direction I have indicated. I shall not attempt to move tonight to have these schedules altered, because I would not succeed if I attempted to do so; but I am making these remarks in the hope that later on Parliament will insist on the adoption of a scale of tax so that he who runs may read. Another objectionable feature of the original act which I think ought to be repealed is that section which gradually but surely eliminates the £300 exemption after a person's income reaches a certain amount. 
My view is that the £300 exemption should hold right through every taxable income. However, it is not dealt with in this bill. I regret that the Government has not proposed a greater reduction in the income tax. I should hail with satisfaction the complete evacuation by the Federal Government of the whole field of income taxation. It should not- retire from the field of land taxation, but it certainly should from the field of income taxation, because the revenue from our Customs and Excise duties, which have recently been increased, is more than sufficient to meet the legitimate expenditure of the Commonwealth. It was never contemplated hy those who supported federation that the Commonwealth expenditure would' approach anything like its present enormous proportions. My opinion is that the Commonwealth should retire at the earliest possible moment from the field of income taxation and discontinue the  per capita  payments to the States. If the States like to insist on this foolish system of taxation, let them do so. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Newland).  - The honorable senator is not in order in discussing those matters under this bill. 
There is nothing in this bill except the proposed reduction of the tax, and, although I may differ in some respects from my leader in this regard, I welcome a reduction in the income tax. It is surprising, however, that all the bills before us, which are directly or indirectly taxation measures, are, when closely analysed, so drafted as to place the burden of the taxation proposed to be raised on the shoulders oi those who are least able to bear it. I shall not oppose this bill, but I should like the Government later to consider the desirability of altering the schedules so that every citizen may clearly understand what income tax he has to pay. 
.- After being in this chamber for the last five and a half years, I need hardly express surprise at the attitude adopted by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Gardiner)  towards this bill. Yet I am surprised that any honorable senator should have the temerity to oppose a measure whose object is to reduce the burden of taxation on the people of Australia. 
No, the people of Australia. The reduction proposed will apply to all payers of income tax.  Senator Gardiner  has evidently overlooked the fact that for the last three years there has been a consistently regular reduction in the income tax levied on the people by the Commonwealth. I do not intend to allow  Senator Gardiner's  remarks to pass unnoticed. He had the audacity to state that the Commonwealth Government was offering a bribe to the people on the eve  of an election in order to secure their votes. I have always understood that a gentleman occupying the high and honorable position of. Leader of the Opposition should keep himself acquainted with current events in the political arena, but I am forced to the conclusion that even  Senator Gardiner  has failed to read the budget speech . delivered by the Treasurer  (Dr. Earle Page)  early in August last. 
SenatorFindley. - Deal with the bill. We are not now considering the budget. 
I intend to refer to it. The Treasurer in his budget speech in August last indicated clearly that a bill was to be introduced to provide for a 12½ per cent. reduction in income taxation.  Senator Gardiner  should not now suggest that the mesure has been brought down as a bribe. 
Anybody who says that is trying to deceive the people. Honorable senators who support that view are angry because the affairs of the Commonwealth have been managed in such a way as to make this reduction possible. Last year the Government not only effected a reduction of 10 per cent. in income taxation, but it also raised the exemption so that persons with incomes under £300 a year were not required to pay any tax. 
The honorable senator is jealous of the fact that the Government is able to grant this relief. 
To the people of Australia. 
 Senator J.  Grant stated emphatically that the income tax levied on individuals was passed on by them to the community. Assuming that his argument is correct, does not every section of the community benefit by a reduction in income taxation, since there must be less tax to be passed on?  Senator Gardiner  therefore should welcome the reduction. I hope that when the party on this side of the chamber returns next year ' from the election considerably strengthened, it will be able to grant even more relief to the taxpayers than is now proposed. A statement that I made some time ago will bear repetition. I pointed out that it was only because we have heavy war obligations to meet that the continuance of the income tax is necessary. The amount of tax levied to-day is not nearly sufficient to meet the interest and sinking fund payments required annually in connexion with our war loan indebtedness, and therefore there must foe some other method of raising the money required to meet our obligations. Personally, I should like to do without taxation, but as long as the need exists we must meet it like men. I hope that this will be the last time that  Senator Gardiner  will charge the Government with offering a bribe to the people when he knows that the Ministry is actuated by a desire to reduce their burden whenever it is possible to do so. 
 Senator Payne  congratulated the Government on its proposal to reduce income taxation by 12½ per cent., and said that it would mean much to the people of Australia. The Minister  (Senator Pearce)  remarked that I, for one, would benefit by thisreduction. Quite so, but I do not think that I should thus be benefited. A man in receipt of £1,000 a year is in a position to pay the present income tax. 
Any reduction that can be made should be extended to those who are least ableto bear the burden of taxation. 
Although they may pay no income tax, they contribute very heavily to the cost of government through the Customs. 
Of course I am a protectionist ; but it should be possible to relieve the people on the bottom rungs of the financial ladder instead of helping those who have ° already climbed to a considerable height. I realize that the desire of Ministers is to help the big man. That is why they are on the Treasury  bench. I do not go so far as  Senator Gardiner,  and say that the proposed reduction of 12$ per cent, is a bribe to the electors. I believe that the Government, when it foreshadowed this reduction, had no expectation of an immediate election. I give it the credit, therefore, of at least being honest in that direction, but I think that it was an error of judgment to make no attempt to reduce the taxation of the small man. If  Senator Payne  had said that a certain wealthy section of the community would be benefited by the reduction  lae  would have been nearer the mark than he was. Why should we reduce taxation on one hand, and borrow millions of pounds abroad? The fact that we are constantly borrowing shows that the revenue is insufficient for our purposes. It seems unnecessary and undesirable, therefore, to reduce the present income taxation. 
I shall point out to the electors that this measure will benefit the rich man, while the poor man will have to carry the same burden of taxation as he does at the present time. 
I congratulate the. Government on its start to evacuate the field of direct taxation) which it entered on account of war obligations.  Senator Hoare  surely does not imagine that the people who will benefit directly by the reduction will put the money thus saved into a stocking. It will be used in industries, and will directly provide employment for the section whom the honorable senator claims to represent. We are suffering to-day through a shortage of capital for investment in industries. If one tries to borrow, even on the best security, he must pay 6 A or 7 per cent, interest. It is well known that nothing checks the expansion of industry and the provision of employment more than financial stringency. Although there may not be any individual instances of great reductions of taxation, the Government's proposal will mean a large sum in the aggregate. The money saved will not be hoarded up, but will be used at once to nourish industries, and provide work. Australia's most pressing need is a reduction of taxation, and the cessation of strikes, which, together, are responsible for the unem ployment trouble. I trust that in the next Parliament it will be possible for the Federal Government to. evacuate the field of direct taxation altogether, and leave it to the States. 
Following the argument of  Senator Elliott  to its logical conclusion, rich men should not be taxed at all. I quite understand the honorable senator's attitude, because he represents the wealthy section. Although he opposes direct taxation, he does not object to the indirect taxation of the poor. He does not mind what they pay for their cotton shirts and overalls, and he does not protest against the heavy payments they are called upon to make through the Customs. He has no sympathy for the worker who may feel the need of a pint of beer at the close of a heavy day's work, and has to pay increased taxation on his refreshment. 
But the worker pays 90 per cent, of the indirect taxation, and cannot pass it on. He is in a worse position to-day than he was three years' ago. The cost of living has gone up, and there is an attempt to cut wages down. It is not fair that one section of the community should be heavily taxed, whilst the wealthier classes escape their fair share of the burden. This is what the Government is attempting to do.  Senator Elliott  said, without reservation, a moment ago that the wealthy should not be taxed. 
That is the only meaning that can be read into the honorable senator's remarks. He urged that the wealthy people should not be taxed, so that the money thus saved could be put into industry, to earn greater profits and help them to further exploit the workers. I can assure the honorable senator that the working classes will not forget this on the 14th November^ We never hear  Senator Elliott  asking why  Sir Sidney  Kidman failed to furnish income tax returns for seven years. We may be quite sure, however, that if any member of the working classes failed to do so 

 Senator Elliott would be very ready to conduct a prosecution on behalf of the Government. As a supporter of this Government, he stands for the exploitation of the workers, and for a policy that seeks to make the rich richer and the poor poorer. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from committee without request or debate. 
Report adopted. 
I take this opportunity to reply to a statement made by  Senator Payne,  who, during the second-reading debate, took exception to an interjection which I made that, . in introducing this bill after the announcement of the dissolution of Parliament, the Government is really offering a bribe to the rich taxpayers of Australia. 
The honorable senator, in his speech, made it perfectly clear that no person in receipt of £300 a year would be required to pay income taxation under this measure.- If the Government had passed this bill in the ordinary course of business, I would not have said that its 'action was suggestive of a bribe; but, in view of the fact that the head of the Ministry in another place has announced the intention of the Government to appeal to the people, and in view also- of the assurance of the Leader of the Opposition that he is prepared to grant Supply so that an appeal to the country may , at once be made, it is most improper to introduce a measure which, in my opinion, is a flagrant bribe, to insure the support of the wealthier section of our community. The bill will not come into operation until July next, so there was no need for its introduction at this stage. In the circumstances, I can employ no other language. The bill is a flagrant and an open bribe to the rich people of this country. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
If,under the Customs Validation Bill, consumers  01  imported whisky who have been accustomed to pay 9d. will now have to pay1s. per nobbier - that is the effect of the increased duty - the Government might assist thelocal producers by reducing the excise instead of increasing the Customs duty. I do not drink whisky, but I would make a good deal of noise if I had to pay taxation on every cup of tea that I drink. Therefore, those who consume other beverages have as much right as I have to consideration in the matter of taxation on beverages. I thought that the Government, instead of increasing the Customs duty on whisky, might want to reduce the excise duty to give the local manufacturer some advantage. If that is not the intention,I have nothing fur-' ther to say on the matter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
.- I am very glad that the Senate is to meet to-morrow morning, as we shall then have an opportunity to debate the measures which the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  has mentioned. If we cannot comfortably dispose of the business to-morrow we may as well meet again on Friday, as Melbourne is a rather unbearable city in which to spend one's time when the Senate is not meeting. Although I shall endeavour to assist in expediting the business of the Senate, I shall certainly speak on the Customs Tariff Validation Bill and the Supply Bill. 
It is most important that those vessels should be here on that date. These vessels are to leave Jervis Bay, and are to be in company with the  Adelaide,  until they are off Port Phillip Heads. What happens after that?. The  Adelaide  for reasons best known to the authorities, is to leave the others and is due to reach Port Adelaide on the 4th November. In the interests of the defence of Australia, I consider that the  Adelaide  should not go to South Australia on the date mentioned, but should come up to Melbourne to see what is doing here. I absolutely object to that vessel being detailed for duty in South Australia, as there areno " reds " or communists there. We require the  Adelaide  in Melbourne not later than the 3rd November. I am glad, however, that there is. a clause in the communication, which I hope will be put into effect. It reads - 
The programme is liable to alteration according to circumstances which may arise. 
I trust the Minister representing the Minister for Defence will take the necessary steps to see that the proposed trip of the  Adelaide  to South Australia is cancelled, and that that vessel will come to Melbourne in company with the other vessels of the fleet. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
What fees are being paid to the Deportation Board? Is the sum of £25 mentioned by  Mr. Bruce  paid to each member of the board for his-services per day or per hour! What fees are being paid to  Mr. Lamb?  In addition to  Mr. Lamb's  fees, does he receive a large sum at frequent intervals in accordance with the custom of the legal profession under the heading of " refreshers " ? What is the cost of the board's inquiries to date? Has the Government put any limit to its  expenditure  ? 
I do not mind adding that question also, but I did not' know that the Government had briefed  Mr. Watt.  I was under the impression that the other side was paying him. 
Senntor GARDINER. - This is not a joke. 
Order ! This is not a subject for argument. Questions must be asked solely for the purpose of eliciting information. 
As this may be the last sitting of the Senate this session, I shall endeavour to obtain the file for the honorable senator before the 'adjournment. I invite  Senator Gardiner  to supply similar information as to what is being paid to  Mr. Watt  and as to who is providing the money. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice -  1.Isit a fact that it has been decided to dispose of certain plantations in New Guinea ? 
If so, how many are to be offered for sale ? 
What are the terms and conditions? 
The Treasurer supplies the following answers: - 
Yes. 
258. 
The terms and conditions cannot conveniently be given in reply to this question, hut will be published almost immediately. 
In addressing myself to the proposal to validate taxation imposed on the working classes by the Government, I shall endeavour to placemy views fully before the Senate, but . not with any desire to place obstacles in the way of the completion of business. 
It is a public holiday to-day, and members of another place are enjoying it, and Ministers will not mind admitting that it was my suggestion that we should meet 'early today in order that we might get through our business, and enable the House of Representatives, if it so desired, to finish the session's programme to-morrow. But this bill is of such far-reaching importance that I am not disposed to let it go without question, even if other honorable senators should be willing to do so. In order that my remarks in regard to the effect of the tariff may not be interrupted, I propose at this stage to quote the opinions of two of Australia's foremost statesmen on the tariff a few years ago. Perhaps it may be necessary to explain that one of the two gentlemen to whom I have thus referred is  Senator Wilson,  who is the Minster in charge of the bill.  Senator Wilson  is reported in  Hansard,  of the 14th July, 1921, page 10061, to have said - 
I am not likely to support heavy duties on tools of trade or any articles necessary in producing from the soil. 
I interrupted him, and asked - 
Does the honorable senator favour a reduction of the duties upon farming machinery? 

 Senator Wilson replied ; 
I have already said that I do. 
Later on, he added - 
I hope that, in the interests of the primary producer of this country, the honorable senator will assist' me to secure a reduction of many of the duties which have been imposed under this Tariff. The farmer, the grazier, and the fruitgrower will be pleased indeed to know that  Senator Gardiner  is willing to aid me in the matter. "Barkis is willing," but where is the Minister? 
I am still willing to aid  Senator Wilson  in the matter. In moving for a reduction to item 161, the Minister said - 
It is indeed difficult to understand why duties, any duties at all, should be placed on. items of this character. If I had my way. or thought it possible to get my way, I should move for much larger reductions. 
I realize that  Senator Wilson  has seen the light, andI should like to have an explanation from him as to why it has so dazzled him. The honorable senator went on to say - 
Earlier in the debate I stated, that I was pledged to' secure, if possible, a reduction in. the duties on tools of trade. . . This is a very important matter to every one connected with those industries that arc producing the wealth of this country. It is not-sufficient for us to stand up in this. Senate, and talkabout what the farmers should or should not do. This is a time when we might fairly he judged by our actions rather than our words. 
Undoubtedly this is the time when we should be judged by our actions rather than by our words - 
It . should not be forgotten that, in addition to the tariff itself, the local maker has considerable protection by way of packing charges, carriage, wharfage, and general expenses. . .  . . We cannot expect our primary interests to expand under duties which actually amount to prohibition. 
Those duties are still operating, and this tariff schedule will impose a still heavier burden upon the man on the land. It will tax him in respect of the shirt he wears, and the other clothing he buys for himself and his family. Yet the Minister, who introduced this bill, then said - 
I certainly desire to make all articles that are used by the individual largely for the benefit of the community, free of duty. 
There is nothing ambiguous in that statement. It is a clear expression of the convictions of a man who, according to  Senator Reid,  was then groping in darkness.  Senator Wilson  referred also to bananas - 
In order to protect a Queensland industry, every section of this community is being unnecessarily burdened. . . . We arebeing asked to agree to a duty which is considerably higher than the cost of producing other fruits. 
I have no desire to charge the honorable senator with inconsistency.  Senator Reid  explained this metamorphosis exactly when he said that  Senator Wilson  had seen the light. What was that light? Was it the dazzling glare he passed through in London? Was it the spotlight that shone upon him at Wembley? Or was it the radiant glory that surrounded his elevation to the Ministry, as a representative of the Country party? We can never forget how  Mr. Bruce  took  Senator Wilson  on to the platform in Adelaide and referred to him as " a gift from the gods." Unquestionably, he was a gift from the gods. The only sad feature of that gift is that  Mr. Bruce  and  Dr. Earle  Page are trying to flog the Nationalist and Country party . organizations in South Australia into continuing it for a further period. I hope they may succeed, for, apart from our political differences, I realize that  Senator Wilson  jumped into fame in an amazingly short time; he made such marvellous strides that he outstripped all other members of his party. Indeed, his capacity for getting on - I will not be hypocritical enough to refer to his capacity as a statesman - far exceeds his merits, and he has established almost a record in the public life of this country, especially, having regard to the opinions he held only a few years ago. However, I leave  Senator Wilson  and turn to his colleague, the Minister for Home and Territories. In order to get some indication of  Senator Pearce's  earlier fiscal faith, I have had to search further back in the records of this Parliament, and, naturally, I have succeeded in finding a more weighty quotation. I shall quote fromHansard of 14th May, 1902. 
-The honorable senator piloted through this Chamber last night a bill to make retrospective collections of taxation from people who had legally resisted the Government's claims. Therefore, he must not complain of a retrospect of his own career. Again, I have no desire to show that he has been inconsistent, because if his views had not altered in 23 years we should regard the steadfastness of his faith as proof that he is, in fact, as cold as he appears to be. When I contemplate the honorable senator in charge of the business of this Sen ate, he appears to me as cold and impassive as a statue on a pedestal, or as a flint which - much enforced, shows a hasty spark, 
And straight is cold again. 
I make this quotation from  Senator Pearce's  speech in 1902, because of its historic value - 
I am sure that all those who have studied the Labour movement in England must recognize the service that has been rendered to that movement by the newspaper known as the  Clarion.  In 'an article which appears in that publication from the pen of Robert Blatchford; entitled "The Wisdom of the Times," the writer, after dealing with the opposition of the Tories to the social reform movement, says - 
 They are not the most ominous signs of the times.No;by far the ugliest sign of the times is the fact that, of late years, two words, which have for half a century been tabooed in British politics, are now, after some whisperings and stealthy hintings, beginning to be spoken trippingly on the tongue. These words are ' Protection ' and' Conscription.' They are words of abomination and desolation; words that, being openly spoken, should be resented by the people as an insult to their understanding and a threat to their liberty." 
That is a weighty utterance. 
If I amnot on the platform now I very much mistaken. Nobody but  Senator Ogden  would fail to appreciate that this matter is meant for outside consumption. If  Senator Ogden  will resign his seat, and contest it with me, I shall be content to let the people of Tasmania pronounce upon this proposal to tax them in the interests of the rich. 
I am not bluffing, and I invite  Senator Ogden  to accept my challenge. 
I have quoted  Senator Pearce's  reference to protection and conscription, as words of abomination and desolation, and an insult to the people, and a threat to their liberty. Changing circumstances do not alter general principles, and if, 23 years ago, protection and conscription were abominations and insults to the people, they are abominations and insults to-day. Yet the honorable senator who quoted those words is to-day supporting a bill to add to the burdens of the people by the abomination of protection.  Senator Pearce's  speech in 1902 continued - 
Two British union secretaries -  Mr. Thorne,  of the Gas Workers Union, and  Mr. In  skip, of the Boot and Shoe Operatives Union - were sentas Labour delegates to represent Great Britain at the Convention of the American Federation of Labour, held in Kansas City early in 1809; and on their return they made these statements: - 

 Mr. Thorne. ; As  a working  man, I  would not choose the United States of Amercia as a home. 

 Mr. Inskip comes to the same conclusion. Speaking with deference to his American brethren, he is, nevertheless of opinion that - "the -workers in England are better off than the workmen in the United States of America, for, while the hitter may earn more in actual cash, the purchasing capacity of their wages for the necessaries of life is less by comparison than the wages paid in England." 
That quotation was read by the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  with all the weight of a strong oppositionist in this Senate,  and with  all the power of an alert young intellect entering the fiscal fight. Even liberty can be taken from us by laws which people imagine will do the country good. The greatest industrial development that the world has seen has occurred in  the  last 80 years. Great Britain is very small in area by comparison with the United States of America, and she lacks the natural resources of oil, silver, gold, lead and other minerals that America possesses; but, without the assistance of protective duties, she has developed her industries to such an extent that with her 45,000,000 of people she is still ahead of the United States of America with its population of 110,000,000. During the last 80 years one country has been governed under free trade and the other under protection. I admit that until I had travelled through Great Britain 1 had no conception of the enormous extent of her industrial development. 
Yes. That is why I  am  opposed to this bill.  But  grave as is Britain's present danger, it must be admitted that- of all the nations that participated in the late war, she has emerged the most successful. If her war obligations had not placed her in a bad position, it would have been most extraordinary. She financed not only herself, but a number of her dominions, and allies. Whilst Britain has arranged to wipe out her indebtedness to America within a given time, other countries have not been so prompt to make repayment. Her ships are upon every sea; her commerce is being carried to every country. This has been accomplished under a policy of free trade. 
This bill will cause an even greater stoppage of imports to Australia than any other . obstacle could, without benefiting local industries. 
I do not suppose so, but I shall give some facts that will substantiate my argument, and that the honorable senator may be able to understand. Figures published in the  London Industrial Year-Book,  1922, show the imports and exports of Great Britain to be as follow: - 

<graphic href="111332192509241_3_0.jpg"></graphic>

The corresponding figures for the United States of America are as follow: - 

<graphic href="111332192509241_3_1.jpg"></graphic>

Compared with Great Britain, the United States of America is a new country, and despite the latter's enormous mineral and agricultural resources, Great Britain, without the assistance of duties, still leads the world in industrial development. When we want the best of anything we go to England for it. If it is a motor car, we choose a Rolls-Royce. 
If we want the best, we go to England for it. 
Owing to the blight that Australia suffers in the form of the present Government, it has never  had an opportunity to build cruisers. I am speaking of the conditions that now obtain. 
When I refer to England I have no desire to exclude the rest of Great Britain. I include the shipping yards on the Clyde and at Belfast, but the fact remains that when we want the best in ships we go to Great Britain. In ship building, the yards of Great Britain hold supremacy.  Her  doors are open and her ports are free to every country. When the war broke out her industrial development savedher. We do not question the bravery of her men or our own, but we know that her ability to throw her industrial machinery into the manufacture of munitions was the weight that turned the balance in favour of the Allies in the recent gigantic struggle in which most of the nations of the world were engaged. I have met men who argue that before the war England laid the foundations of her industrial strength under protection. According to my reading, a protectionist Prime Minister of Great Britain - I refer to  Sir Robert  Peel - saw the people starving under protection, and consequently altered the fiscal policy of the country. 
I believe that conscription and protection are becoming an abomination now, and I believe that the short-sighted policy of manufacturers in Great Britain may yet put her in the position of having to adopt protection. Ifso, good-bye to her industrial supremacy. 
And with disaster to herself. Australia is so large in territory, and her population is so small, that under a crippling tariff, industrial stagnation is produced. Evidence of it is to be seen in the smaller States, such as Western Australia and Tasmania. This industrial disease is destroying the vitality of the larger States, but its effects arenot so noticeable where the population is great as " they are in Tasmania and Western Australia. In the smaller States the primary industries are suffering, and it is there that the primary industries are most important. The best of the population of those States is hurrying to the subsidized factories of the larger States, which are steadily and surely sucking the life-blood of the smaller States.. In protectionist America Henry- Ford has shown the world that high wages and low selling prices can go together. Since 1900 the consumers in Australia have provided £300,000,000 for the Government in Customs taxation. Why should the public be called upon to bolster up inefficiency in industry? 
I say that if they cannot compete with the manufacturers of other countries, they must be inefficient, because the Australian workmen are as efficient as the workmen of any other country. To-day our industries are not flourishing under high tariff duties, and it is for the Government to require the replacement of the present inefficient with scientific and efficient machinery. Australia's progress depends on thriving and prosperous primary industries. I wish to place before the House the view of the primary producers. Since  Senator Wilson  forsook them they have had no representative here. To be fair to him, he never was their representative. He is quite well aware that he has gone from flower to flower, and sipped the honey of the Country party, the National party, and the Liberal-Unionist party. He has tried to be everything to all of them, and has been nothing to any of them. 
If I had thought my words were insulting, I would not have used them. I thought that I was merely voicing a self-evident truth.  Senator Wilson  fired across the chamber at me recently the statement that he had never attended either the Country party or the Nationalist party meetings. If the truth is insulting I shall always be insulting. I have before me a copy of a letter sent by accredited representatives of the primary producers to the Prime Minister. As the primary producers have no representative in this Senate, I consider that it is my duty to take up the job, and let their voice be heard here. Their letter to  Mr. Bruce  states - 
On behalf of the Victorian Farmers' Union and the Town and Country Union, representative of both primary and secondary industries and consumers generally, we express our appreciation of your promise to give this appeal your special and personal attention. 
The part you have played in international matters, your participation in the Councils of the Nations, your statesmanlike decisions, as exemplifiedin the construction of Australian cruisers, inspire confidence in your national leadership. 
The elementary truths underlying international trade relations need not be traversed at Length, and we are quite sure you recognise - 
That the needs and wants of the nations of to-day are so complex that, as our . Australian families are dependent one upon the other for requirements, so also are nations mutually dependent. 
That the principle of high, protection may appear sound when applied to one or two industries, but it fails to fulfil its promise when generally applied. The product of one industry being frequently the raw material of another, any duty upon one makes the manufacture of the other more costly, and so hinders the establishment of export markets and consequent extension of local turnover. 
That international trade consists of the exchange of goods for goods, and therefore all goods imported are paid for by goods locally produced. 
That excessive protection decreases employment by diverting capital from more to less profitable industries. 
Advancing civilization and the higher standards of modern living demand supplies from many parts. Each nation contributes to the welfare of others. Labour and material from many countries now largely enter into the manufacture of goods and the construction of machinery. International trade therefore is now. of more vital importance to the prosperity and material welfare of each nation than ever before, and it is not possible for any progressive and prosperous community to be wholly self-contained. 
We need more permanent commercial patrons in the, world's markets, and this need could be met by reduction of excessive Customs duties, which are limiting the volume and value of our exports. 
Our prosperity will be best served by producing goods we are specially fitted to produce under most favorable . conditions. 
Such suitability is the solution of the present problems of markets, population, and prices, and this solution of these weighty matters may be brought to nothing by creating privileges for the few at the expense of the many by means of excessive tariff taxation. 
Efficiency and reduced coat of production in both primary and secondary industries were never so necessary as now. Recovery from the recent devastating war is proceeding elsewhere, and Australia's contribution to and profit from serving the material welfare of the nations are dependent upon these factors. 
Efficiency and lower cost of production are hindered greatly or prevented by high Customs duties, and the urgent and widespread demand for substantial reductions in tariff taxation, and for a greater recognition of those fundamental industries upon which our national solvency, social stability, and progress depend is indicated by these two resolutions: - 
On the 13th. March, 1925, 350 delegates from the various branches of the Victorian Farmers' Union met, in Melbourne, and unanimously carried the following: - " That this Conference considers the Australian Commonwealth tariff unnecessarily high, and that its incidence is hurtful to the great primary producing interests, and also to the welfare and progress of the Australian community as a whole; and this Conference further considers that a percentage reduction should be made annually on all tariff items dealing with the staple necessities of primary and secondary industries." 
Similar resolutions have been carried by the Country party in nearly every other State, and also by" the Federal body." 
On the 5th February, 1925, 200 persons, representative of professional and commercial interests, at the inaugural meeting of the Melbourne branch of the Town and Country Union, unanimously resolved - "That the primary and secondary industries should be relieved from the burdensome disabilities imposed upon them by the present tariff." 
This organization, its brandies throughout the State of Victoria, and kindred organizations in other States, support these principles. 
Increasing numbers of Nationalist, Country party, and Labour supporters are realizing that extreme fiscal duties grant privileges to ' the' few at the expense of the nation. 
The State Governments rightly spend large sums of money in the construction of railways, harbours, and roads that settlement may be expedited and effective transport be cheapened, and at the same time the Commonwealth Government inconsistently levies duties upon the construction material, rolling-stock, &amp;c, involved. 
Licence fees paid by motor vehicles contribute to the fund out of which roads are built, and, maintained; but we restrict the efficacy of these roads and limit their convenience by levying heavy taxation upon these vehicles, and upon the lubricating oil and fuel they use. 
Transport, the handmaid to settlement and production, thus becomes more instead of less costly. On one hand, the necessity for markets, population, and transport is proclaimed, and simultaneously a high Customs tariff is imposed, which hinders or defeats attainment of these conditions. 
The depredations of wild dogs have excluded she*;]) farming in certain outback areas. The remedy is a cheap supply of wire netting for fencing, but the extension of our most profitable primary industry, and the addition of millions of sheep to Australia's flocks, with additional millions of money to our annual production, have been checked, because, notwithstanding the bonus to local manufacturers  o'  wire  netting, employing relatively speaking few hands, dumping duties have been imposed to make wire netting still  dearer  The privileged wire netting manufacturers have repaid this political patronage by selling wire netting to New Zealand farmers and graziers at a lower price than to Australian pastoralists. 
The creation of pools for the marketing of certain primary products has. been considered necessary to keep certain .of Australia's land under cultivation. Subsidies have also been granted. Neither of these expedients can permanently satisfy those engaged in these industries, nor meet economic loss. 
Arrangements have been made with the Imperial Government for the settling of British immigrants on our land, with a view to developing our undoubted resources. The initial disability is the high cost of living and taxation upon almost every machine and implement required for their work, and upon all daily requirements. The correction of these conditions is urgently necessary if we are to maintain or increase the proportion of our population now engaged in primary industries, and if our immigration policy is to foster settlement of country areas. Failure to correct these matters will result in difficulties through the drift of peoples to our already overcrowded cities. 
The high tariff, rather than ministering to increased prosperity, progress, and sound industrial development, has hindered greater progress and better development, and, in addition, exposes our people to the. effects of a disastrous reaction. 
Favoured industries have experienced, and arc experiencing, a temporary inflation at the expense of sound progress and development. 
Complications following inflation of capital, reduction in volume of money available for substantial enterprise,' -losses in returns from marketing, reduction in number of foreign buyers of Australian goods, unemployment due to higher wages that are ineffective because of increased cost of living, false values of both locally -produced goods and heavily taxed imports, following the incidence of the present tariff, are the conditions from which we seek some relief. 
Because of alleged " insufficiency " of present duties, high tariff advocates are asking higher or more duties. We submit the remedy is the reduction of existing duties. 
The great natural resources of the Commonwealth., and the abilities of its people, are be- ing seriously checked in their development by the high tariff, and the harassing anomalies arising from its administration outside the control of Parliament. 
The conditions complained of as due to tariff taxation are intensified by Australia's vast public expenditure, which is largely increased by the operations of the tariff. 
That- liberal and general distribution of commodities at reasonable prices, which belongs to real prosperity, and which follows natural rather than artificial conditions of trade, is a disappearing factor in our commercial transactions. 
No single individual in this country escapes the blighting effect of heavy taxation. Housewives, wage-earners, and settlers each bear it, and it presses with greatest harshness upon the family man. 
The cost of living is one of the questions of the day. lt is discussed in every place by every class. Courts base their decisions upon its movements, and wages move accordingly. As each tariff imposition increases this cost of living, so wages are increased, and the higher wage is swallowed up in the reduced purchasing power of money. " More protection.'' therefore, will be the continual cry of those desiring political patronage, while the distrust and discontent engendered continue to be serious factors in preventing national development. 
Besides the toll upon the actual and potential wealth by industrial and rural failures, there remains the more subtle and extensive loss through failure to find those markets which, under 'less artificial trading conditions, would be found throughout well-settled country areas, as contrasted with the present lamentable drift to the overcrowded cities. 
Mutual prosperity of both primary and (secondary industries follows rural development whenever natural-conditions obtain. Indeed, the importance of rural development as the greatest factor in national progress can  scarcely  be over-estimated. With it will come a general efficiency unhindered by industrial mischief-makers and unreasonable opposition to the mutual welfare of each section of society. 
The production at lowest cost of quality goods, and of crops, under a system making for industrial contentment, and for a greater share in the value of increased output by the' worker, will aid greatly in the solution of the problem of marketing to advantage. 
The nature of the mutual effort, and its rewards in a country such as ours, enjoying favorable climate, great areas of good land, are dependent upon national policy, and are keenly susceptible to the errors of wrong leadership. 
Originally the protective policy was intended to give our infant industries assistance over and above the natural protection of freight, landing charges, &amp;c. It was not, however, intended practically to blockade the primary producer by an excessive tariff that retards rural development, and jeopardizes our immediate welfare. 
The gradual removal of hindrances to production in the form of excessive tariff imposts on machinery, tools, implements, fencing materials, clothing, and other general supplies necessary for farms, orchards, mines, stations, road construction, transport facilities, and electrical installation, is advocated to encourage land settlement and the development of primary industries. 
We urge that inefficient industry or inefficient individuals should not benefit at the expense of the public, and submit that the expressed intention of the Government to assure efficiency is impracticable under an excessive tariff. Efficiency is the result of keen competition. We urge the adoption of scientific modern methods in all branches, both of agriculture and production, and the encouragement of such educational and research work as will secure for each increasing prosperity on sound economic lines. 
Progress and prosperity, peace, and goodwill in national and international life, spring from that mutual consideration, mutual service, and mutual confidence, encouraged by liberal trading relationships; but these ends are endangered, and fear and prejudice fostered, by the spirit responsible for commercial exclusiveness. 
We append detailed statements, as typical illustrations, of the burdens due to the existing high -protection policy, dealing with - 
Agricultural machines and implements; 
Oils: 
Wire netting; 
Matches: and we hope to send you, in the course of a few days, similar statements with regard to - 
Woollens, galvanized iron, fencing wire, and transport. 
I have read that letter, because it represents the views of the primary producers who have no voice in this chamber. 
It is my policy. 
Perhaps, when I am a little nearer to the views held by the honorable senator, I shall go out of the Labour movement. 
If they do, all I can say is that I have never heard them express themselves as such during the six years that they have been in the Senate. Neither have I heard  Senator Elliott  say anything on behalf of the primary producers. Let us examine the position. The Prime Minister's reply to this appeal from the primary pro ducers is increased taxation ; but not for the purpose of building up industry in Australia, because the facts disclose that the contrary happens. I am aware that a number of people believe that Customs taxation means protection. I believe nothing of the kind. The fact that last year the Government raised nearly £40,000,000 from Customs, duties on goods imported to Australia shows clearly that a Customs tariff does not prevent imports. Consequently, it does not relieve the Australian manufacturer from overseas competition. 
I do. If I thought otherwise, I would not favour giving that system a trial. Will any honorable senator contend that secondary industries in Great Britain have not prospered during the last 80 years? 
Yes, remembering the state of affairs in other countries. 
I am aware of that, and I suggest that the policy of ; his Government is partly responsible for that unemployment. If we removed the barrier to British trade, manufacturers in Britain would be able to employ many thousands of additional workmen. 
The imposition of heavy Customs duties will not necessarily lead to further employment in Australian secondary industries. A heavy duty on cotton goods, for example, will not help Australian manufacturers, since we are not manufacturing cotton piece-goods in Australia. The industrial position in England is not unsatisfactory in comparison with that of Germany, France, and Italy. I think I am right in saying that the volume of British trade is equal to the trade of . those three countries combined. My statement that Customs duties do not necessarily mean more employment in Australia is based on returns furnished by the Commonwealth Statistician of the number of factory employees in Victoria and New South Wales. After the 30 years' race between freetrade New South Wales and protectionist Victoria, New South Wales had the advantage. 
I can only put that remark down to lack of knowledge of the policy of New South Wales prior to federation. I venture to say that New South Wales still holds a large a moun t of Tasmanian trade which she won in her freetrade days. 
I shall quote from the statistical record of the two states prior to federation. That will be a fair comparison. During the period, 1871 to 1901, which I shall take into account, Victoria was imposing high protective duties, and New South Wales was not doing so. The two States were inhabited by a similar class of people working under practically the same conditions. 
For the information, of the honorable senator, I may say that in the Bourke district, in the western division of New South Wales, the population is one man to every 16 square miles. What bearing has that on the industry of a country? So far as the productivity of the soil is concerned, I think I may fairly say that New South Wales has 20 acres of waste land for every acre of waste land in Victoria. I wish to make a perfectly fair comparison. New South Wales had 601 factories in 1861, and Victoria had 531. In 1871 the respective figures were 1,813, and 1,740. At the end of the 30-years' period New South Wales had 3,367 factories, and Victoria 3,249. I know that there may be a big difference in the nature of some factories. Two or three people may be employed at one establishment, and several hundreds in another. For that reason I intend to give the total number of employees in the factories of the two States during the same period. The Victorian tariff was first enacted in 1865, so "that my figures begin after it was well established. The table from 1871 to 1901 is as follows:- 

<graphic href="111332192509241_8_0.jpg"></graphic>

It will be seen, therefore, that at the end of the 30-years' race Victoria had lost her advantage. Since then the two States have been protectionist, on an equal footing, and New South Wales has not grown in the same relative degree. It may be argued that the fact that New South Wales had coal available and Victoria had not, accounted for the increased development in New South Wales; but the coal deposits at Fort Kembla and Woollongong are for all practical purposes as accessible to Melbourne as to Sydney. The population figures of the two States are even more startling. I regret that I have not the actual returns at hand, but, speaking from memory, the population of New South Wales increased far more under freetrade than that of Victoria under protection. Since the adoption of protection New South Wales has not developed in the same ratio as she did under her freetrade policy. During the 30-years' race that I have mentioned, the people of New South Wales were buying their goods for less than was paid in Victoria, and New South Wales occupied the better position. 
I propose now to turn to the bill. If it is agreed to, heavier burdens will be placed upon our people. My objection to the protectionist policy is that it unduly burdens our people. When protectionist supporters find that their policy is not doing what they expect it to do they immediately ask for more protection. I should quite willingly support protection if it did what was claimed for it, but it does not provide employment for our people, nor make conditions better for them. I do not want foreigners to do our work, but I cannot for the life of me see that protection is helping our Australian workers. Our exports are made up of 94 per cent. of primary products and 6 per cent. of manufactured goods. Our primary producers are paid for their goods in other goods that are imported from abroad. If a 40 per cent, tariff is imposed on imported manufactured goods it simply means that the Government retains 40 per cent, of the value of our primary produce or, in other words, that our primary producers get 40 per cent, less than they should for their goods. With a 40 per cent, tariff, if our exported primary produce is valued at £100,000,000, the primary producers get only £60,000,000, and the Government get the other £40,000,000. As a matter of fact, protection is killing our primary industries. It has already killed the mining industry. I am aware that raining fields peter out, but our artificial trade arrangements have caused many mining shows to cease operations, notwithstanding that under fair conditions they could pay handsomely. Why? Because an attempt is being made to  enrich a few at the expense of the many, and in consequence primary production is decreasing. 
Certainly. Every increase in wages - has that effect, but although the wages paid are higher they cannot be considered better. A rate of 10s. a day, such as 1 received when I was at my trade, was worth more than 20s. to-day, although those engaged in that trade are receiving only 16s. a day. Although wages are higher productivity has not increased, and the purchasing power of money is, of course, not as great as it was a few years ago. High wages are not necessarily good wages, but the rates now paid will not enable mines from which low-grade ores are produced to be successfully worked. I have no quarrel whatever with those who believe in building up our secondary industries, but if we approached those in control of such industries, and asked them to consider their position, apart altogether from the fact that they are operating under conditions which give them a certain sense of security, they would tell us bow they were handicapped by the tariff. Our tariff is crippling Australia as tariffs helped to cripple Great Britain, and this latest instalment will make our position worse than that of Great Britain at one period in her history. During the year 1914, 572,182 persons engaged in primary production produced £150,915,000 worth of produce. In 1923-24, 550,538 primary producers produced £260,178,000 worth of produce; It will be seen from these figures that during the ten years, 1914 to 1924, the number of persons engaged in primary  produc-tion  decreased by 21,644, whilst the value of the produce increased by £109,263,000. The chief reason for the increase in value is the enhancement of pricey but in a young coun*try such as Australia we cannot view a reduction in the number of out primary producers without the gravest concern. The figures; contained in the  Commonwealth Y ear-Booh  reveal an astounding position, and- show how heavily the tariff is pressing on primary producers. The figures in relation to the manufacturing industry show that in 1914, 313,136 persons engaged in manufacturing produced £59,004,000 worth of goods, while in 1923-34j 403,855  person5 produced £132,392^00. The number of employees increased by 90,719 during the period of ten years, whilst the value of the production increased by £73,388,000. If these figures are analyzed it will be seen that while the number engaged in primary production was reduced by 21,644, the number engaged in manufacturing increased by 90,719. The manufacturers, with approximately 90,719 more employees, increased their production to. the extent of £73/388,000, but from that amount we hare to deduct the huge sum of money paid in the form of Customs duties to enable our secondary industries to continue. I believe that our secondary industries can continue to operate successfully in Australia, and compete with the  manufacturers  in other parts of the world. One of the largest employers of labour in Australia -  Mr. Baker,  who laid the foundation of huge works at Waratah, and has employed men in practically all countries - has publicly stated that the Australian workman is equal, if not superior, to any workman he had seen iri any other part of the world. -  [Extension of  time  granted.'] -  Our tariff is not a protective tariff. I have received a communication from a manufacturer of cotton goods - I refer to Bond, who has just established a factory at Wentworthville, near Parramatta, in which he points out that his firm really requires a bounty, and not a duty. 
I now wish to show how our present tariff will affect our trade with Britain, and in this connexion shall give particulars concerning the old duty on cotton goods, the rates for which were 15 per cent, foreign, and British free. The proposed duty is, British, ls. per square yard, and 30 per cent.; and foreign, 2s. per square yard, and 45 per cent, ad valorem. Cotton tweed, of British manufacture, 27 inches wide, at ls. per yard, has been landed here at ls. lid. a yard-; and foreign cotton tweed, costing ls. per yard, at ls. 2d. per yard. Trousers made from either British or foreign tweed at these prices are retailed at from 8s. lid. to 9s, 6d. Under the proposed tariff British cotton tweed at ls. f.o.b. will cost 2s. 2$d. per yard landed in Australia. This will mean that the retail price of similar trousers will vary from 15s. to 17s. lid. a pair, and these higher rates cannot possibly be paid with the present basic wage. No attempt is being made to produce these goods in Australia, and I ask the Minister to seriously consider the suspension of the application of this duty until these goods are being commercially produced in Australia. As cotton tweed is not made in Australia, the duty on this item does not protect any industry, and the ultimate result will be that we shall have more unemployed. The Government evidently intends to protect the manufacture of cheap woollen tweeds in Australia, with which cotton tweeds do not compete. Shoddy tweeds are generally used for suits, but it is not so with cotton tweeds, which are mostly used by miners, labourers, and farm hands, as they are hard-wearing and wash well. Several lines of cotton tweeds are used for motor coats, mens' working shirts, and overalls, and shoddy woollen tweed would be quite useless for that purpose. The cotton tweeds imported into Australia are specially manufactured for our market, and are suitable for the climatic conditions which prevail here. The position of those who have tweeds in bond and on the water should have some consideration from the Government, as it is impossible for them to resell them in any other country, and the proposed tariff really prohibits payment of the duty. Let me give an example. One holder in bond of cotton tweeds foreign invoiced at £840, required £139 for duty under the old tariff. Under the proposed tariff the duty required is £2,554 on the same invoice. That is only one instance. The proposed tariff will not produce any revenue, for the reason that it means prohibition. The preferential tariff is usually 15 per cent, in favour of British goods, but under the proposed tariff the flat rate of 2s. per yard on foreign goods means 100 per cent, preferential tariff. That is out of all proportion. Those particulars, which I have obtained from  Mr. Holland,  I place on record because of  Senator Elliott's  interjection, " Why- do we not manufacture them here?" We are only a young country with a population of approximately 6,000,000 people, and our manufacturing industries have not grown to the same extent as the manufacturing industries of other countries. If the honorable senator will study my figures regarding primary and secondary production, he will see that primary production, is the more profitable. Many people in our midst speak as if they believe that the ideal condition would be for large numbers of factories to be established; but I do not think so. I have visited a large number pf factories in Australia, and while I am glad that in the last few years enormous strides have been made towards bettering the conditions of the workers, I should not like to work" amid the whirl of belts and the clash and din of machinery. The nerve-racking factory life is not the life that I am fighting for. In Australia we have wide expanses of rich country, and had the money which has been wasted in attempts to build up our secondary industries been used to send water from the tropical regions to Central Australia, we should 'now have millions of people settled there. Australia can produce the food, the wool, and the cotton that the world wants. We should realize that they know not Australia who only Melbourne and Sydney know. Australia contains large areas of magnificent country which is only waiting to be developed by an intelligent democracy. Those areas will not be developed while the people believe that by establishing secondary industries, in which we hand the earnings of the worker to the manufacturer, we are attaining prosperity. 
I am not remaining silent on the eve of an election. I know that freetrade is  a  dead question in this country, and that the? politician who is not adaptable to present- day views is in danger politically; but I would rather that my last utterance in this Senate was an outspoken one, showing1 that the way we are treading is  a  dangerous path, than remain silent on this matter. With  Senator Pearce  I agree that protection and conscription are words of abomination and desolation. ' I desire to place on record a letter received from an English firm of manufacturers by the Australian Association of British Manufacturers - 
The proposed duty increase on gents' and boys' waterproof coal's of 7s. 6d. and 30 per cent. or 45 per cent. on gents', and 5s. each and 30 per cent. or 45 per cent. on boys', is, strictly speaking,a prohibition tariff, for evidence can be produced showing that even at the old rate of tariff, i.e., 40 per cent., local manufacturers are quoting and selling similar goods to ours at considerably below our landed cost. 
For example: - We can produce evidence that the present price of a gent's black rubber waterproof coat of our manufacture, at the old rate of tariff, landed here at 25s. 6d. each. Local Sydney manufacturershave. and are now selling, a similar coat made up- with our cloth at 22s. 9d. each, against our old landed cost of 25s. 6d. each. At the new rale of tariff, we cannot land our coat here under 33s. 6d. each. 
So much for gents' coats. Now take boys' coats. We have evidence of one Sydney manufacturer who is selling for indent 1926 delivery, 'boys' waterproof coats at less than our English invoice price, made up of our V16 material. 
Taking the above into consideration, we submit that, at the old rate of tariff, the local manufacturers have ample protection, and an)' further increased duty is prohibitive so far as British manufactured goods are concerned. 
Attached to the letter is a sample of imported material. Local manufacturers are underselling the British manufacturers; yet we are putting exorbitant duties on these materials in order to make a present to the local manufacturers. The result of these duties will be not to help Australian industries, but to crush them. I thank the Senate for the opportunity to place before it these facts in connexion with the attempt to cripple the trade between Australia and Great Britain. 
I  do not suppose that any honorable senator regrets more than  I  do that we shall not have the opportunity to discuss fully the tariff which has lately been laid upon the table of the House of Representatives. I realize that there is a great deal in it to discuss. It may be to my credit that it is because I realize the paramount importance of the crisis which has arisen, that I am willing to forgo any but a passing reference to a subject which not only affects me, but also affects the State which I have the honour to represent in this chamber. I do not propose to spend more than a few minutes in addressing the Senate on this occasion. I want, first of all, to congratulate  Senator Gardiner,  who is the Leader of the Labour party in this Senate, upon the extremely rational, sensible, and moderate speech which he has just delivered. On many occasions, the honorable senator has provided us with surprises which have been most staggering, but on this occasion he has outdone himself. I can pay him no higher compliment than to congratulate him on having broken away from what I consider are the worst principles of the Labour party. I do not wish to be misunderstood when  I  say that the two outstanding members of the Labour party in this Senate, are senator Gardiner and  Senator Ogden.  Perhaps those honorable senators will not thank me for coupling them together, and it might appear to some that to do so would be like tying together the tails of two Kilkenny cats and hanging them over a clothes line, when they kick themselves to death. The melody resulting from coupling those two honorable senators in that way would be worth going a long way to hear. In that they pick the good out of the Labour platform and eschew the bad, those honorable senators resemble each other. I have here a copy of the Sydney  Worker  for Thursday, the 27th August. 1925, which contains the Federal platform of the Australian Labour party. I should like  Senator Gardiner  to understand that I am not making a quotation from that journal out of any disrespect for him, or with the intention of doing him an injury. I desire merely to point out that he, at all events, has recognized the futility of, and the danger that lies in some of the planks of the Labour platform. He and  Senator Ogden  have realized that in good time, and are evidently preparing to escape from the  débâcle  which may be experienced in Australia if the present  policy of the Labour party is adhered to. Item No. 4 in the platform of that party is " New Protection." 
SenatorKINGSMILL. - What that may be, I candidly confess that I do not know. The protection enunciated by the honorable senator who has just delivered such an eloquent speech, however, contains so many novel features, and is so unlike the protection that is advocated by other members of his party, that it is indeed " new." In order to clinch the matter, a further plank in the platform defines "New Protection" as follows: - 
Import embargoes for the effective protection of Australian industries, subject to the control of prices and industrial conditions in the industries benefited. 
That does not quite fit in with the speech of the Leader of the Opposition, but I have no doubt that he has for that, as he has for everything else, an extremely ingenious explanation. The honorable senator's faculty for getting into difficulties is equalled only by his agility and ingenuity in getting out of them. He reminds me very forcibly of a gentleman who occupied a high position in Western Australia, whom I often accused in public of tumbling into pitfalls merely in order that he might show how clever he was in getting out of them. If I may be permitted to rase a metaphor which is familiar to some honorable senators, at that game the honorable senator can give to the gentleman to whom I have referred, 40 in 100. 
Having dealt with the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition, I shall say a word or two regarding the policy of other members of his party; that is, the policy of high protection, which, of course, necessarily involves high wages. I hope that I am not ungenerous in supposing that the Labour party, with the possible exception of  Senator Gardiner,  values protection on Account of the high wages that it brings in its train, rather than because of its benefit to the industry that it is supposed to protect. Certain members of the National party also value protection. I hope that I am not wrong in saying that they value it because of its presumed tendency to increase production and create secondary industries. That supposition, however, has been pretty well "knocked on the head" by the utterances of  Senator Gardiner.  I am glad that my attitude on this matter coincides with what might be expectea from a representative of Western Australia, or, indeed, a Tasmanian representative; because I maintain that, for the present, at all events, and assuredly for many years to come, the primary industries will be very much more important to Australia than the secondary industries. I greatly fear that if this country, under a mistaken sense of doing good to the secondary industries, builds up those industries on a basis and under conditions which will not allow them to compete with similar industries in other parts of the world, we shall be very much better off without them. This artificial feeding, this hot-house treatment of industries must result in their, withering and dying when they are brought into the bright light and the clear sunshine of world- competition. 
I am but a humble follower, who has not signed a pledge, and who does not hold as pronounced views on protection as are held by other members of the National party. The policy of high protection is not a plank in the platform of the National party. 
It is. I have shown that by what I have just read. 
If the National party cannot corporately make up its mind, at all events some members of that party are able to do so. I have never been backward in expressing my opinions, whether they be in agreement with or contrary to the supposed policy of the party to . which I undoubtedly belong. I thus have the right to express an equally strong opinion in regard to -the platform of any party to which I may be opposed. 
I shall be delighted to do so, and I shall not give such an evasive answer as was given by the honorable senator, when, on one occasion, I asked for his opinion regarding a certain matter. Shortly, my opinion is that the National party embraces all those attributes, and the ability to give effect to them, wherein the salvation of Australia lies. I admit that that is an allembracing answer, but it is not worse than that which was given by the Leader of the Opposition when he said that the defence policy of the Labour party aimed at providing for an adequate system of defence. When I occupied, in the Western Australian Parliament a position similar ' to that which you,  Mr. Deputy President,  now occupy, am honorable . member, realizing that I was regarding him in a questioning way, said, "  Mr. President,  you are wondering what this has to do with the subject. Indeed, I am thinking the same thing myself." So, warned by your kindly but neverthe-less  threatening' look, I shall return to the subject under discussion. Listening to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Gardiner),  one could be pardoned for thinking that he. represented Western Australia or Tasmania, instead of New South Wales. I thank him for giving utterance to sentiments that can be said to lead to that belief. I hope that he will not mind if, in the coming campaign, or in any future campaign, I use a few of his arguments. I could not possibly express my views with such force or cogency - as he has applied to them, and I shall endeavour to employ the sense and tha gist of his arguments to clinch any statement that I may make on this matter. 
It is only my recognition of the importance of the present crisis, and the need to determine whether this fair land of ours is to be governed by constitutional law or mob rule, that prevents me from dealing with the tariff in detail. I hope that the State that I represent will forgive me for that admission. I am forced under the circumstances to support the bill. 
I intend not to speak at length on this measure, but to make one or two observations regarding certain omissions from the tariff schedule, and the Govern ment's neglect to caro for some of our principal industries. I listened with interest to the speech delivered by the Leader of the Labour party in the Senate, who professes to be a freetrader. An honorable member in another place said the other day that freetraders belong to the prehistoric age. 
The honorable senator thought fit on previous occasions to flay me for infringing what he considered to be Labour principles. He said that I was a believer in black labour in Australia, because I dared to urge the amendment . of the Navigation Act. Surely the honorable senator who laid that charge against me is an advocate of black labour when he would permit the products of cheap foreign labour to enter Australia duty free to compete with the products of our highly-skilled labour. The honorable senator has thrown out a challenge to me to contest my seat at the next elections, but I do not know whether I ought to accept it, because I am told by some of his friends that if I did he would nearly die of fright. I am also informed that despite his loud voice and dominant manner he often shirks a fight. After three years' experience' in this chamber I have deliberately concluded that it would not be fair to inflict the honorable senator upon the people of Tasmania, because during that time I have never heard him give expression to one constructive sentiment. The whole of his efforts have been destructive. It seems to me that he thinks his only duty to the electors is to fill a great part of.  Hansard  with unnecessary and meaningless speeches. The Labour party has no plank in its platform dealing with protection. 
That is dead and buried. 
It is understood that every member of the Labour party - has a right to please himself on matters affecting the tariff. If that is not so, then I shall have to bring  Senator Gardiner's  position before the caucus, and at the same time ask him to resign from the Labour party, as he asked me to do. If protection is a plank of the Labour party's platform and  Senator Gardiner  is allowed freedom on that subject, I should be allowed the same freedom on other questions. 
I am not a freetrader; I favour some measure of protection. I believe in watching by the cradle of an industry, taking it by the hand in childhood, and fostering it until it reaches maturity. Protection should then be withdrawn and the industry allowed to go alone. I believe in assisting the development of an industry by protective duties, but I am opposed altogether to assisting an industry like the woollen industry, which has had adequate protection for a number of years and is still asking this Parliament for further protection. . Where is the consistency in the proposals of the present Government? It refuses to protect the timber industry, and yet in all seriousness it asks this Parliament to agree to a tax on dungaree trousers that are worn by the workmen employed in the industry. The price of a pair of dungaree trousers has been increased by 4s. 6d. Is that the result of scientific protection? Let me give the Senate another illustration. It has lately been proposed to establish a key industry in Australia - the paper pulp industry - so that Australian newspapers may be independent of imported newsprint. A certain company is willing to spend upwards of £1,000,000 on this enterprise and to pay the standard rate of wages. This industry, if established, would give employment to 4,000 or 5,000 men. This proposal was submitted to the Tariff Board some months ago. It made its recommendation to the Government, which is now going to the country without any declaration on the subject. 
No declaration has so far been made, and what is the reason for the delay? I know that certain newspapers oppose a protective duty on newsprint. Some of them are perfectly justified in their attitude. The  Argus  is a freetrade newspaper, and, like  Senator Gardiner,  is supposed to believe in the principles of freetrade. Some excuse might also be made for newspapers in Sydney and perhaps in Hobart that profess freetrade principles; but, strange to say, the  Age,  the chief protectionist newspaper of this country, which on every possible occasion has advocated the imposition of high duties upon imported commodities, now objects to a protective duty on newsprint. 
Where is the consistency of such an attitude? Is there any consistency in this world? There are only two or three newspapers in Australia whose proprietors are sufficiently patriotic to be willing to pay a duty on newsprint in order to secure the establishment of a big industry for its production in the Commonwealth. The Melbourne  Age,  by its opposition to the proposed protective duty on newsprint has outraged every principle of protection it has hitherto professed. Another Melbourne newspaper, the  Herald,  which is not regarded as able to influence public opinion to any great extent, has professed the principle of protection, but is also against this proposed duty. When a proposed duty touches the bulging pockets of these rich newspaper proprietors, they are, so far as it is concerned, supporters of freetrade. The establishment of the wood-pulp and paper manufacturing industry would benefit not only Tasmania, but the whole of the Commonwealth. Some Tasmanian people have come to the conclusion that the reason why the Government has deferred a decision on the question of supporting this industry is the opposition of the powerful metropolitan newspapers. I should not like to accuse the Government of being so weak as to surrender its policy at the dictate of the proprietors of the big newspapers, but I warn it that its failure to deal with this matter will mean the loss to the Nationalist party of at least one seat in Tasmania at the coming election, and it may materially influence the result in other constituencies in that State. Will the Government come out with a declaration of its intention to assist the establishment of the "wood-pulp and paper manufacturing industry by affording it adequate protection? The people of Tasmania are naturally curious to know why the Government has submitted a tariff schedule giving protection to quite a number of small Australian industries, and has absolutely neglected, so far, to propose any protection for the industry to which I have referred. 
Yes, and will be considering it until after the elections. 
I want a declaration on the subject. Members are returned to this Parliament to do the best they can for the country, and party considerations should not have weight where the welfare of the country is at stake. Notwithstanding all the difficulties which confront it, the Government should have gone . straight on with its policy. It should then have appealed to the people on that policy. If it did so it would be more likely to secure a mandate to continue the administration of the affairs of the Commonwealth than if, smothering up some important issues, it appeals to the electors on a question which tome will regard as one of sentiment. It may be that there is need for a strong hand to deal with certain outside influences. I have supported the Government in its efforts in this direction, and will continue to support it in those efforts, but I still contend that it should not have neglected its public duty. It should have afforded honorable senators an opportunity to consider the items of the tariff in detail before rushing them into a general election. There is another matter of importance to which I should like to refer. Honorable senators are aware that immediately a tariff schedule is tabled the duties it imposes become payable. Under section 132 of the Customs Act import duties are payable at the rates in force at the time the goods are entered for home consumption. Tasmania receives a great portion of its supplies through the distributing centres of Sydney and Melbourne, and on this account Tasmanian merchants are very frequently placed at a considerable disadvantage. Sydney and Melbourne merchants can withdraw goods from bond before proposed new duties come into operation. At the present time, owing to the strike of British seamen, a number of ships coming from the Old Country and carrying large stocks for various States, have been held up here and in Sydney. Merchants on the mainland were able to withdraw their goods from bond before the higher duties proposed by the new tariff schedule came into operation. But the Tasmanian merchants have been unable to withdraw from bond goods in the ships that have been held up, to the value of many thousands of pounds. They must, as a consequence, pay the higher duties upon them, and are placed at a considerable disadvantage compared with merchants in the other States of the Commonwealth. We have interviewed the Minister for Trade and Customs in connexion with the matter. It has been brought under the notice of the Government, and we are informed that it is not possible to so amend the act as to remove this grievance of Tasmanian merchants. Whether that is so or not, it is certain that under existing conditions serious hardship is inflicted upon the people of Tasmania. I know of one Tasmanian merchant who, because of the conditions to which I have referred, will have to pay increased duties to the extent of £400 or £500 which merchants of the mainland have been able to avoid by withdrawing their goods from bond before these increased duties became payable. This is certainly- not fair, and if it is impossible to so amend the act as to place all on an equality in this regard, it is not, I think, unreasonable that' the Government should be asked to give special consideration to the position of Tasmanian merchants under existing conditions, due to the unforeseen occurrence of the strike of British seamen. I shall not discuss the tariff items in detail, or attempt to refute arguments which I regard as futile. To compare freetrade England with Australia is ridiculous. To say that England built up her industries under freetrade is not an argument at all, because in the days when England built up her industries she was practically the manufacturing country of the world. Today other countries have so increased their industrial activities that England can no longer afford to leave her ports open to their products. If we were so foolish as to open our ports to the products of the rest of the world, Japan,  who is just at our back door, could send goods manufactured; by cheap labour to compete in our market with goods the manufacture of the highly skilled and highly-paid labour of Australians. That would certainly not be desirable. I ask the Government to make a declaration of what it intends to do in connexion with the wood pulp and paper manufacturing industry, whether .established in Tasmania or in any other State of the Commonwealth. It should make such a declaration in view of the fact that a company is prepared to spend £1,000,000 on the establishment of the industry in Tasmania. Some contend that it is not certain that the company can produce an. article which will meet with the approval of those who require it, but that is a matter which concerns not the Government, but the people who are prepared to put their money into the industry. Although I admit that the Government has certain problems to face and is perfectly justified in fighting the rebellious spirit that is abroad, and in dealing with those who are disturbing the peace, order, and good government of this country, I still contend that it would have been better for it to have carried out its policy, to have dealt with the tariff, and to have given Parliament an opportunity to consider questions vitally affecting ' tlie ' welfare of the people. It could then appealto the country on the broad grounds of its public policy instead of on a question which many will regard as one of sentiment. 
 I regret very much that the Government is again adopting the mostreprehensible practice of submitting proposals to increase the Customs duties at a time when it knows very well that it is quite impossible for them to be given that full consideration to which they are entitled. I have listened with, a great deal of attention to -the speeches delivered here this morning. It is generally recognized that the proposals now before us are mainly an effort to place 'taxation on one section of the community and relievo another section. In view of the wide range of discussion that has been permitted on this bill, I think it is highly desirable tl at we should consider another system of national taxation. side by side with that which is now proposed. I am amused to hear honorable senators talking about protecting local industries. There is nothing more fallacious than the statement that existing Customs and excise duties encourage local industries. Their main purpose is to- bring in revenue and keep the Treasury so full that the imposition of other taxation may be avoided. I congratulate ex-Senator Pratten, who is now Minister for Trade and Customs, and those behind him, on their "intelligent" efforts to place all the taxation of the Commonwealth on the shoulders of the workers ; but I am surprised at the action of many Labourites in supporting them in this endeavour. When I find recognized Tories supporting the Minister for Trade and; Customs in this, policy, I at once declare that I must be in the wrong box if I, as a Labourite, am also found supporting him; but I do not support him, and neither, I am glad to say, does my leader  (Senator Gardiner). 
I am entitled to do so, because, on the fiscal question, all members of the Labour party have a free hand, particularly in New South Wales, where the' schoolmaster is abroad and where we know full well that a protective policy does not offer any economic salvation for the workers. 
Is the honorable senator plucky .enough to advocate the exclusion of goods made in low-wage foreign countries? No; he supports those who are in favour of imposing duties on goods made in those low-wage foreign countries, such as Germany and France, and he talks about cheap goods from a low-wage country like Japan; but does he not realize that the competition Australia is likely to have from Japan is negligible in comparison with what it is likely to get from the United States of America, where intelligent workers use the most up-to-date machinery and, by means of mass production, turn out articles very much more cheaply than the Japanese can? 
Many people would not object if very substantial quantities of goods were dumped here. 
Dumping is not the cause of unemployment. Evidence was given quite recently which shows conclusively that the volume of unemployment in the United States of America is quite equal to that which is now prevailing in Great Britain or Australia. Protection has little or nothing to do with unemployment. Can I be told that there is no unemployment in Germany, France, Great Britain or the United States of America? As a matter of fact, there is unemployment everywhere in the world, and some of us know the cause of it, but protection never has been nor ever will be a remedy for it 
I do not regard  Mr. Scullin  as an authority on this question. I want to place' some figures on record to show that the so-called protectionist policy of the Commonwealth does not exclude foreign-made goods, and that there is no intention on the part of the Government to exclude them. 
It is protection only for the wealthy land-owners, who ought to pay the taxation of the country. I shall put on record, from page 406 of Henry George's  Canons of Taxation,  something to show that there are some people who understand that it is arrant humbug that-  Senator Wilson  talks when he tries to induce people to believe that a protectionist policy of either a high or a low character will benefit them, and get rid of the unemployed problem. 
No. But can the honorable senator tell me any country where there are no unemployed, where destitution does not prevail, or where poor-houses, soup kitchens, and similar institutions are not in evidence? 
There is a good deal of unemployment in Australia. The Commonwealth Treasurer forecast that he would receive a certain amount of revenue through the Customs duties for the year 1923-4, but his estimate was exceeded by about £6,000,000. Notwithstanding the alleged 'policy of protection adopted in Australia, the revenue collected through the Customs House increases year by year, and I have not the slightest hesitation in saying that the Pratten crowd are behind these duties for the sole- purpose of increasing the revenue from this source. There would be something . logical in a statement that they were in favour of excluding foreignmade goods. 

 Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.30 p.m. 

For very many years the Parliament of Victoria imposed very high protective duties, and when federation was consummated the majority of the States were in favour of the protectionist policy, and New South Wales, being in a minority, had to fall into line with them. The Commonwealth Parliament very early in its history took advantage of the opportunity to impose what were considered at that time fairly high protective duties, and the people were assured that very great benefits would flow therefrom. That promise has not been redeemed by the event, because every year in all the States of the Commonwealth there has been a big unemployment problem, and, so far as I can see, this bill contains no proposal which will assist in solving that difficulty. The Labour party has recognized for many years that the mere imposition of duties on imported goods has no really beneficial effect; but. instead of abandoning the protectionist policy, it adopted what was called the new protection, and that is still its fiscal policy. It has not yet been brought fully into operation, but I have not the least doubt of what the result will be when effect is given to it. We have been told that the members of the Labour party have not a free mind in regard to the tariff. That may be true of some members of the Labour party, but clause 3 of the constitution of the New South Wales Labour party reads - " Labour candidates shall have a. free hand on the fiscal question." 
How can a fiscal plank apply to State politics?. That clause refers to Federal politics. 
SenatorJ. GRANT. - The members of the Labour party in- New South Wales are free to advocate whatever fiscal policy they believe in. At times I have even been allowed to advocate land values taxation, which is perhaps not strictly in accordance with my party's platform. My freedom in that respect indicates the amount of liberty that is permitted inside the Labour movement in New South Wales. 
Members representing New South Wales in this Parliament have a free hand on the fiscal question. 
I do not say that it does, but members representing New South Wales have a free hand; at any rate, the constitution of the party says so. 
I have not the least doubt that some of my colleagues would like to prevent any member of this Chamber from opposing  Mr. Pratten.  I am not a supporter of  Mr. Pratten,  and when I see members of the Labour party standing behind men who are regarded as the embodiment of toryism, I am convinced that somebody is mistaken, and that somebody is not the present Minister for Trade and Customs. He knows what he is doing, even though others who support him may not.  Senator Ogden  very rightly argued that when an industry is shielded from the competition of goods produced in foreign countries, where low wages and long hours of labour obtain, it takes a long time to become thoroughly established and self-reliant. As a matter of fact, the older such an industry grows the more protection it requires. I am rather pleased to see that this Government, pursuant to its general principles, has failed, and will, I believe, continue to fail on account of the opposition of the 

 Age, the  Argus,  and other newspapers, to state whether it is prepared to grant a heavy bonus to the Amalgamated Zinc Company, to be followed later by a high duty, which, as the  Age  very well knows, will have the effect of substantially increasing the cost of the raw material. It is significant that the  Age  is not very enthusiastic about the proposal to establish the paper pulp industry in Tasmania. 
The  Age  has always been the champion of protection, and probably more hostile to the Labour party than any other newspaper in the Commonwealth. 
I will back up any statement which the honorable senator chooses to make about the  Age.  With very few exceptions, the big newspapers of the Commonwealth have as the first article of their creed high protection, and as the second article bitter hostility to the Labour party and all its works. The protectionist party and the anti-Labour press seem to go hand in hand. Some of my colleagues do not see eye to eye with me on the fiscal question. It is remotely possible that my views may be wrong, but I am convinced that they are not wrong, because no country in the world, whether it be freetrade or protectionist, is without large numbers of unemployed. That very fact should be sufficient to convince reasonable men that protection is not a complete remedy for unemployment. It is true that large numbers of people honestly and urgently advocate that policy, but in its operation it protects, not the manufacturers and the workers, but the wealthy people against direct taxation. They are the chief supporters of the protectionist fallacy in all countries. Bills for the payment of bonuses, and the collection of income taxation, Customs duties, and other taxation are merely part of a scheme to shield the wealthy, and make the poor bear the burden of government. 
I am afraid that I -would not he in order in stating at this stage my views upon taxation, but I refer the honorable senator to page 406 of Henry George's  Progress and Poverty.  where the canons of sound taxation are laid down. I have no desire to unduly prolong this debate, especially as I know that any opposition I may offer to the bill will be futile. But I protest against the action of the Government in deferring the consideration of the tariff so long, and then asking Parliament to validate the collection of duties without affording us an opportunity of discussing the schedule item by item. These duties have been conceived in -the dark : nobody knows who is responsible for them, or what pressure was brought to bear upon the Minister for Trade and Customs. 
I should like to know who is behind these proposals to increase duties and pay bonuses. Although this schedule is to be validated in its entirety, without any opportunity to analyse it having been afforded to honorable senators, I take this opportunity to draw attention to a few items. 
Nothing, is of greater importance to a very large number, probably the majority, of people in the Commonwealth, than a plentiful supply of good, well-matured whisky. The consumers of this beverage are a very tame and law-abiding section of the community. In all ages and in all countries men have produced a  stumulating  drink similar to, but not nearly as good as, whisky. At one time the manufacture and sale of vodka was permitted in Russia, but in a weak moment the late Czar abolished vodka from his dominions! A little later the Czar himself was abolished, and good enough for him! I warn the Government that its interference with the national beverage is the most dangerous step it has taken. For a number of years the duty on whisky has been greatly increased- on almost every occasion when increases in Customs tariff duties have been imposed, and to-day the impost stands at the large sum of 35s. a gallon, or nearly 4s. 6d. a one-pint bottle. I am in favour of no duty at all on whisky, but I cannot expect the Senate to adopt that very sensible view. It has been suggested by some ill-informed persons that the increase has  been brought about to encourage the drinking of Australian whisky. I do not object to whisky made in Australia, but I suggest that the best way to encourage its more extensive consumption is to abolish the excise duty. This is now 30s. a gallon, and what chance has Australian whisky with a preference of only 5s. a gallon over imported brands? But the abolition of the excise duty is most unlikely, since we have at the head of the Customs Department a Minister who knows his business, and who most effectively serves those whom he represents. He believes in placing the taxation on the poor, and, notwithstanding all his talk about encouraging local industries, he is not prepared to reduce the excise duty on locally-made spirits. He favours its retention, of course, because of the enormous revenue it yields. In 1921-2, the excise" duty collected in the Commonwealth amounted to £10,302,049. ls the Minister  (Mr. Pratten)  going to abandon that revenue for the sake of an Australian industry? He knows better than that. He is afraid that it might result in a straight-out land tax on himself and his friends, or an increase in income taxation. The excise revenue in 1922-3 amounted to £10,274,823; in 1923-4, £10,573,902; and in 1924-5, £10,787,620. If we desire to encourage the manufacture of whisky in Australia let us remove the penalty imposed on those engaged in the industry. Why should men who invest their money in .growing barley, or who 'engage in any process of the manufacture of whisky, be singled out for perpetual penalty ? If a person manufactures boots and clothing he is not penalized in this way; on the other hand, he is sometimes granted a bonus for manufacturing goods from Australian material. One of the advantages of permitting foreign whisky to enter Australia is that the persons who own the land on which barley is grown can obtain higher rents than they otherwise would from their tenants. I am of the opinion that many of the manufacturers -of whisky do not understand the business. Let me tell them that whisky must be matured in wood if it is to be thoroughly palatable. At one time strenuous efforts were made in Australia to impose a duty on tea, but it was apparent to most people that it would mean a tax. on the poor. In Great Britain, unfortunately, tea, sugar, coffee- and similar articles are heavily taxed to-day, while the lairds, lords, dukes, duchesses, counts and countesses are carefully exempted from taxation. The whole of the land-owners contribute only about £2.000,000 towards the national revenue of Great Britain. 
It is nouse asking me to listen to an argument of that nature. The land-owners of Great Britain did not contribute more than £2,000,000 last year out of a total revenue of £800,000,000 or £900,000,000. 
But it is not a land tax. There is a wide difference between the tax upon estates and a straightout tax upon land" values. The landowners of the Commonwealth paid only about £2,000,000 to the national revenue last year, while those who consume whisky and other goods on which excise duties are charged paid about £10,000,000. I intend to move an amendment to clause 4 providing that, notwithstanding anything contained in the act, no increased duty shall be collected on whisky until such increase has been approved by Parliament. I do not regard the passage of this bill as the necessary parliamentary, approval for the proposed increase. In common with other honorable senators, I receive a large volume of correspondence, but I -have not read one letter approving of the proposed duties. In fact, every letter bearing on the subject has been in opposition to them. A high revenue tariff has failed in all countries to bring about the conditions desired. Therefore, we should suspend the operation of this bill for a sufficient time to enable us carefully to consider its effect. I am sure that mature consideration would result in its rejection. At first the Tariff Board held its meetings in secret, but, fortunately, Parliament compelled it to hold them with open doors, as a result of which we now know something of what it is doing. When Parliament decides to inflict duties on the public - and they are an infliction, for no one wants, them - those duties ought to remain as Parliament fixes them until Parliament alters them. To have the board meddling with the tariff and introducing new proposals almost every day, leads to no end of litigation, and leaves the commercial community in a state of continuous uncertainty. For these and many other reasons, I hope that the Government will withdraw this bill until the new Parliament meets. 
.- I shall not, in the dying stages of the Parliament, oppose the bill now before the Senate. I recognize that it is impossible for Parliament, in the circumstances, to give to the tariff the consideration that such a great and important question requires. Irrespective of certain opinions that have been expressed, every man who stands to-day as a pledged Labour candidate under the Federal constitution of the Australian Labour party, is pledged to effective protection, pending an alteration of the Constitution to give effect to what we know as the new protection. At least 98 per cent. of the men and women who compose the Australian Labour movement, stand for the protection of Australian industries. Owing principally to the educational propaganda of the Labour party in years gone by, it is recognized that to build up in Australia a standard of living and social conditions superior to those in any other part of the world, we must not be subjected to the competition of goods produced under sweated conditions in other parts of the world. To achieve those superior conditions we established wages boards and arbitration courts to fix wages and regulate hours of work, and we built up industrial and social conditions acceptable bo the people of this country. Labour men recognize that if they compel employers to observe a 48 or 44-hour week, and to pay rates of wages that enable the working man to live as human beings ought to live in a civilized community, we must not allow the products of. the sweated labour of other countries to compete on an equal footing with the products of the industries of this country. I hope that as a result of that principle all the ships required for the Australian Navy, and the . vessels needed for the Australian trading fleet, will ultimately be built in this country. To fix rates of wages and hours of work in this country, and then to allow the products of the sweated industries of other countries to enter into free competition with the products of the industries of this country, would be to commit industrial and political suicide. I am prepared to vote for this bill, although I regret that Parliament has not had an opportunity to give consideration to the questions involved. Every man who goes to the country at the forthcoming elections as a pledged Labour candidate, will be pledged to effective protection, pending an alteration of the Constitution to give effect to new protection. 

<graphic href="111332192509241_21_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="111332192509241_21_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clauses 1 and 2 agreed to. 
I move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to insert the following new clause :  - , " 2a. Notwithstanding anything contained in this act, no increased duty shall be collected on whisky until such increase has been approved by Parliament." 
In moving that amendment I wish to express my entire disapproval of the method followed first by the Minister, and then by the Government, in placing these proposals before the Senate. . Every endeavour is made to keep alterations of the tariff secret until the new schedule is tabled. I sometimes think that information leaks out, but as to that I may be mistaken. The proposal to impose a duty upon a national beverage before the duty has been approved by Parliament, is entirely opposed to the wishes of a large section of this community. If a referendum were taken on the question of the proposed increase of duty on whisky, or, better still, on a proposal to remove all duties from whisky, I have not the slightest doubt that it would be carried by an overwhelming majority. We have no mandate from the country on this matter. Not one member of Parliament, as far as I know, when he was before the electors and seeking their votes, said that he was willing to increase the duty on whisky. 
If the object is to protect the Victorian distilleries effectively, why not go about it in the proper way? Why not remove the excise duty from the local product? Why should whisky, more than any other article. produced inthis country, be subjected to excise duty? The total amount of excise duties collected in the year 1924-25 was £10,787,620. On spirits, which I assume means Queensland rum and locally manufactured whisky, the total amount of excise duty collected was £1,510,432 in 1921-22, £1,617,975 in 1922-23, £1,757,414 in 1923-24, and £1,766,526 in 1924-25. The Treasurer has estimated that the revenue from excise on spirits for the current year will be £1,705,000, and I feel sure that he will be nearly £500,000 out in his calculation.  Senator GARDINER  (New South Wales) [3.19]. - I intend to support  Senator Grant's  request. I have no desire to see whisky distilleries established all over Australia; but if the Government really wishes to encourage the industry it can do so more effectively by reducing the present excise duty by one-half. 
I propose to move - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to insert the following new clause :  - " 2a. Notwithstanding anything contained in this act, no increased duty shall be collected on cotton piece goods, knitted in tubular form or otherwise; cotton and linen piece goods defined for cutting up for the manufacture of hemmed or hemstitched handkerchiefs, serviettes, tablecloths, or window blinds; silk or containing silk, or having silk worked thereon; velvets, velveteens, plushes, sealette, and cloths imitating furs, astrachans; lace for attire, lace flouncings, millinery, and dress nets, veilings, embroideries, tucked linens, or cottons." 
These are enumerated in item 105 of the tariff schedule. I submit this, request, not with the idea of interfering with local  industries, but to remove the burden of taxation from the clothing of the people. We are not producing cotton goods or cotton tweeds  in  Australia, or, if we are, the industry is not producing sufficient to justify a heavy protective duty. 
-I shall be pleased to learn from the Minister where and in what quantities cotton goods are being produced in Australia. The total value of cotton goods imported during the last year indicates clearly that we are dependent to a very large extent upon the British manufacturer. Instead of imposing a purely revenue tariff on cotton goods, which are so largely used by the people, the duty should be suspended until Parliament has had an opportunity to discuss the question. 

 -(Senator Newland). - Do I understand that the honorable senator has taken the items enumerated by him from the tariff schedule originally introduced. 
Then I suggest that the honorable senator should state his request in a simplified form such as that "no increased duty shall be collected on any of the goods enumerated in Item No. 105, until such increase has been approved by Parliament." 
That the House of Representatives be requested to insert the following new clause :  - " 2a. Notwithstanding anything contained in this act, no increased duty shall be collected on cotton goods until such increase has been approved by Parliament." 
 I ask the committee to reject the request. The object of the bill is to validate the amended tariff, which was laid on the table in another place recently, '  and  it is not desirable to discuss any particular item in the schedule.  Senator Gardiner  has stated that cotton goods are not being produced in Australia. I am informed that a factory was established recently in Sydney for the manufacture of cotton tweeds, and it is hoped that the output will be of considerable magnitude at an early date. 
I believe most of the raw material is Australian cotton. In the circumstances, I ask  Senator Gardiner  not to press his request. 
.- The Minister has just stated that cotton goods are being manufactured  in  Australia. I have received a letter - no doubt other honorable senators have also, from G. A. Bond, a manufacturer of cotton at Wentworth, near Parramatta, New South Wales. He states that his firm asks, not for a duty, but for a bounty, on cotton goods, because they are not yet in a position to supply Australian requirements. If it is  desired to build up the industry in Australia the duty can very well be deferred until Australian firms are in a position to supply a reasonable proportion of Australian requirements. I object to a revenue tariff. The retail purchasers who will pay this tariff on the goods they buy will not be able to get it back, if ultimately it is not ratified. 
 I have frequently spoken on this subject in the Senate. These heavy protective duties are merely to produce revenue and not to encourage our industries. The Minister is unable to inform us where cotton goods are being manufactured in Australia. A gentleman interested in this industry assured me not long ago that cotton goods were not being made here. I told him that the Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Pratten)  had given me his word that they were. He said, " Well, the Minister says more than his prayers." The budget papers showed that the revenue derived in Customs duties from apparel and textiles in the last four years was as follows :  - 

<graphic href="111332192509241_22_0.jpg"></graphic>

Yet the Minister for Trade and Customs has the hardihood to. ask us to substantially increase the tariff. He and his supporters know full well that the duties on this class of goods will be paid by the poorer sections of the community. Before I am prepared to vote against  Senator Gardiner's  proposal I shall want  detailed information from the Government as to the number and capacity of the factories engaged in producing cotton wearing apparel. The Treasurer's estimate of revenue from this source this year is ?5,490,000, but we know that his estimates are quite unreliable. I am satisfied that the figure will be nearer ?6,000,000. It is absolutely unfair that  Senator Guthrie, Senator Elliott,  and other supporters of the Government should use their position in this chamber to impose taxation of this nature on the poor people. If they would propose taxing the wealthy landowners to provide the necessary revenue I should heartily support them. 
The statements made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Gardiner)  in regard to the production of cotton goods in Australia are correct. Messrs. G. A. Bond &amp; Co. do not want protection, but a bounty. 
They did not ask for protection. If the Minister in charge of the bill can give me an assurance that a firm or firms are engaged in manufacturing these goods in Australia I shall be prepared to grant them reasonable protection. 
I should like to know the names of the firms and . where they arc carrying on their operations. I am not prepared to impose a purely revenue tariff on cotton tweeds or anything else of that nature. 
If you, sir, had listened attentively to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Gardiner)  you would have known that he particularly mentioned cotton tweeds. 
In that case I shall support the request. 
I appeal to honorable senators not to allow themselves to be drawn into a discussion of the different items of the tariff. In order to do that effectively we should need to have the schedule before us, and it is not before us. The question is, whether we are prepared to validate this tariff on the understanding that we shall have an opportunity to discuss it in detail as soon as possible after the election. It is not feasible at present to discuss the different items. The whole schedule will come before ' Parliament after the elections. The Government has decided to seek a mandate from the people on a certain policy. In the circumstances there is no time for us now to deal with the separate tariff items. We have undertaken to submit the schedule to Parliament as soon as possible after the election: I ask honorable senators not to enter upon a discussion of the merits or de-merits of particular items, but to pass the bill on the understanding that they will have an opportunity later to deal with the schedule. 
The Government would do the fair and honest thing if it withdrew the bill. If it is passed many people will be robbed before we can give any further attention to the tariff. I have received a letter from Messrs Turnbull &amp; Co., clothing manufacturers and importers, 327 Pitt-street, Sydney, which reads as follows : - 
We, the undersigned manufacturing warehousemen, makers of boys' and men's readymade clothing, and selling to the retail clothing shops, beg to point out the serious consequences and hardship that will occur if the revised tariff, asintroduced into the Federal Parliament, becomes permanent. 
Taking cotton tweed : General tariff 2s. per square yard, and 45 per cent. ad valorem, which is extensively used in . the manufacture of men's trousers and boys' knickers. Under the former tariff, men's trousers could be sold ' to the wearer at 6s.11d. per pair, under the revised tariff, not less than 13s.11d. per pair. 
A strong nap tweed, highly suitable and largely used for- working men's trousers, under the former tariff could be sold to the wearer at 8s.11d.; under the revised tariff, not less than 15s.11d. 
The some difference in cost would apply to the higher grade of cotton tweeds. Under the former tariff, heavy cotton and tweed mixture overcoating, highly suitable for men's overcoats, could be imported and sold to the wearer at 45s.; under the revised tariff not less than 65s. 
We would point out that - 
That there ore no cotton tweeds of the description referred to made in Australia, and no substitute can be bad. 
That it would amount to robbery to be compelled to charge to the working class the high price that would have to be charged to the wearers. 
We are prepared to submit details as to how we arrive at these conclusions. 
That the revised tariff has already disorganized business and caused serious loss. 
We would suggest that the revised tariff be suspended until fully considered by the Federal Parliament. 
That if not remedied as suggested, it will cause serious unemployment. 
We trust this matter will receive the serious consideration that it deserves, and feel sure the persons who mode the recommendation do not fully understand the situation as it affects the people of the Commonwealth. 
Not only should I like an opportunity to investigate the statements made in that letter, but I certainly think that the Government should reply to them convincingly before it asks us to pass this bill. Messrs. Turnbull and Co. are manufacturers, and they ought to know the position. 
I am a scientific protectionist, but not a robber. 
It is the imposition of such duties as will encourage the development of our secondary industries, and not the mere imposition of a revenueproducing tariff. If, as the writer of that letter says, cotton tweed trousers which now cost 6s.11d. will, under the proposed new tariff, cost 13s.11d., the poorer classes of our community will suffer severely. I urge the Government not to push on with this bill now. Let the matter remain in abeyance until after the election If we pass this bill, and later, when the detailed schedule is before Parliament, the increased tariff on cotton goods is not ratified, those who have paid the higher prices which will have been charged by the retailers in the meantime will not be able to get a refund of the difference. I shall need very shortly to buy a couple of cotton shirts. It is quite likely that they will cost me 5s. more each under these new conditions than under the old tariff rates. If Parliament ultimately decides against the new proposals, I shall not be able to get a refund of that extra 10s. that I have paid for them. 
I am prepared to accept them for the time being. If they are incorrect. I ask the honorable senator opposite to prove it. I ask the Minister in charge of the bill whether he can disprove them. The letter, which has been sent in good faith, states that the firm is prepared to submit proof of the accuracy of its statements, but the Government will not give us an opportunity to examine them. If the Minister can disprove what I have quoted, I shall support the clause, but in the absence of concrete proof that such articles are being manufactured in the Commonwealth, I shall support the requested amendment. The Minister has simply stated that there is likely to be somedevelopment in the local manufacture of cotton goods. Up to the present, apparently, nothing has been done, and if higher duties are imposed the workers of Australia will have topay the increased prices. 
In this act, "Tariff proposals" means the proposed duties of Customs introduced into the House of Representatives on the following dates, namely, 2nd of September, 1925, and 18th of September, 1925. 
As there is no schedule to the bill, there can be no schedule before the committee. The requested amendment submitted by the Leader of the Opposition purports to include in the measure a schedule in which it is stated that no increased duty shall be collected on cotton goods, a list of which he has submitted, until such increase has been approved by Parliament. Some of the . cotton goods mentioned in the list quoted by the Leader of the Opposition are already dutiable, and on some an increased duty is proposed in the tariff schedule which is before another place, but which is not before this Chamber. In some cases "no increases are proposed in the duties imposed in the schedule to the principal act, and in others an actual decrease is provided for. The schedule referred to in the requested amendment is not the schedule to the existing Customs Tariff Act, because, in the proposition which the Minister has submitted, a rearrangement of items and duties has been effected . If the requested amendment were accepted, we would be faced with this extraordinary position : That we should have ' carried a requested amendment which purported to put the tariff back to where it was before the Minister submitted his motion in another place, but which actually would have done something else. "We should have amended the schedule by placing goods in a different category from that in which they are in the existing tariff. I ask your ruling, sir, as to whether the requested amendment is relevant to this bill, which merely puts to us the direct question, "Will you validate the collection of duties in accordance with the resolutions tabled in another place?" 
In this Act " tariff proposals" means the proposed duties of customs introduced in the House of Representatives on the following dates, namely 2nd September, 1925; 18th September, 1925. 
I therefore took a portion of the schedule, pasted it upon a piece of paper so that there could be no misunderstanding and requested that an amendment be made to exempt cotton goods from the payment of the proposed duty until Parliamentary approval had been obtained. We are dealing with a straightforward proposal. The fact that the schedule is not before us has nothing to do with the question. It cannot be said that the Senate has lost its right to deal with the proposed Customs duties. 

 In the Senate: 

I dissent from the ruling of the  Chairman  on the' ground that the requested amendment submitted by  Senator Gardiner  deals with a proposed amendment of the schedule which is not in the bill, and is not before the Senate; that the only object of the bill is to validate the collection of Customs duties imposed by a certain resolution now before another place, and that no other question than that is relevant to the bill. 
In support of my decision, I desire to quote a ruling given on the 15th March, 1917, on what I consider to be a similar matter. That ruling was given in connexion with a Customs Tariff "Validation Bill, and, strange to say, it was  Senator Gardiner  who on that occasion submitted  the proposition that gave rise to the point of order.  Senator Gardiner  then moved - 
That the House of Representatives be requested to add the following clause to the bill :- 
Item No. 129 of tlie tariff proposal introduced into tlie House of Representatives on the 3rd December, 1914, is amended by  inserting  after the word " cent." tlie words " and on and after the 15,th March, 1917, free." 
The ruling of the  Chairman  was that the requested amendment was out of order. A motion that the Chairman's ruling should be dissented from was then moved, and, later, the  President  ruled that the requested amendment moved by  Senator Gardiner  was relevant to the bill. He considered that it was quite within the competence of Parliament, in considering Customs validating bills, to amend the items proposed to be validated, and this view was borne out by the fact that the Government proposed an amendment in clause 4 of the bill. Therefore, a senator should have the right to propose a request. In addition, any action which limited the rights of the Senate in a matter of this kind was not a desirable precedent. He therefore ruled that the point of order could not be sustained and that  Senator Gardiner  had a perfect right to move his request. I take it that the ruling of the  President  in 1917 strengthens my ruling on this occasion. 
The point of order seems bo be quite clear, and I do not feel that at this hour it would be either profitable or desirable to take up a great deal of time in discussing it. The Minister's contention would have very great force if  Senator Gardiner's  request in any way attempted to amend any Customs or excise duties which are collected under the Customs Tariff Act already in existence. That, undoubtedly, would be outside the scope of the bill. But I cannot agree with the Minister's, contention that the " tariff proposals " which are now before, another place are not also before the Senate. They are effectively brought before us by clause 2, which clearly sets out that the object of the bill is to ratify proposals which are identified as having been submitted to another place. It is inconceivable that this Senate should be asked to ratify something which is hot before it, and of which it knows nothing. The question for me to decide is whether the request is relevant to the bill ; that is the only question before us. When a bill to validate a tariff comes before a legislative body it is obvious that it must be open to that body to validate it in full or in part. The Senate, by this bill, is asked to validate proposals which are. distinctly brought before it and identified as proposals placed before another place on certain plates. If that were not so the Senate would be dealing with something of which it knew nothing, and that would be a ridiculous position in which to place it. Further, I' may point out that  Senator Gardiner's  requested amendment does not seek to amend the schedule, but merely proposes to impose a condition in the validating bill. The condition sought to be imposed' is perfectly relevant, and, therefore, is in order. In upholding the Chairman's ruling. I believe that I am acting in accordance, not only with previous rulings that I have given, but also with those of my predecessors in the Chair. 

 Incommittee: 

 I feel inclined to take the point that the committee is not in order in the action that it is taking. It roust be quite clear that, not having the schedule before us, this is only half a validating bill.  I  shall, however, act more generously than the Minister  (Senator Pearce)  did, and allow the matterto stand. 
 I move- 
That the House of Representatives  be  requested to insert the following new clause :  -  2a.  Notwithstanding anything contained in this act, no duty shall be collected on linen threads until approved by Parliament. 
I regret exceedingly that this ostensibly Protectionist Government proposes to impose a duty amounting to 25 per cent. on imported linen threads that are used by manufacturers of fishing lines. At the present time that thread is not manufactured in Australia. There can be no other object in the proposal than to impose a high revenue duty. Fishing is one  -of the most healthy, and probably one of the easiest and most pleasurable exercises in which a person can engage. This allegedly Protectionist Government claims that, in order to save Australia, it is imperative that a duty of 25 per cent, shall be imposed upon threads, out of which fishing lines are manufactured. If they were manufactured in the Commonwealth, or it was proposed to manufacture them here-, there might be some justification for the desire of the Government to make it more difficult for people to engage in this pastime. The manufacture of fishing lines involves a fairly difficult process. A great deal of expert knowledge and experience are required, and few persons undertake it. Instead of encouraging local industry, this is a wilful attempt to stifle it. The Minister for Trade and Customs  (Mr. Pratten)  probably did not know what he was doing when he included this amongst the other items in the schedule. . I have here from one of my valued constituents a communication which I shall read for the information of honorable senators. 
I am not, but I emphatically protest against the attempt of the Government to sneak through this proposal. 
-- Order ! The honorable senator must not use language of that description. 
I ask the honorable senator to confine his remarks to hia requested amendment. 
Dear  Sir, -  With, reference to the new tariff which has been in operation since last week, I would like to draw your attention to the way iu which this will affect manufacturers of fishing lines in tlie Commonwealth. 
A duty of 25 per cent, has been imposed on linen threads suitable for making these lines, and as wc have got to import this linen thread from the United Kingdom, and afterwards twist same into fishing lines, the extra 25 per cent, will just about kill this industry in Australia. The fishing line manufacturers in the Commonwealth will, -if this duty is insisted on, be compelled to shut their factories, and I hope that you will use your influence to have this duty taken off linen threads suitable for this trade when the matter is being discussed in the Federal House.. As quite 90 per cent.  of the lines used in Australia are locally manufactured, you will see that the new tariff, instead of protecting us, will be the means of our having to go out of business altogether, because, in my own case, it  means  that I will have to pay out £300 extra in duties this year, and this industry cannot stand it. 
I shall be pleased to furnish you with any particulars you may require, and hope you will favour me by letting me have a reply with your views. 
That man is fully acquainted with his subject. I am at a loss to find a reason for the action of the Government. Is it a fair thing that a man who has invested his money in the purchase of thu machinery necessary to establish and carry on an industry of this description should be required to pay out in one year an additional £800 in duty? That sum, with a substantial addition to it, will be passed on to the purchasers of fishing lines The worst phase of this question is that while the Government professes to be anxious to take action to develop our infant industries, it is doing some of them incalculable harm. 
I would point out to the honorable senator that he has used those arguments three or four times previously. 
I cannot allow the honorable senator to. use them again. 
I ask the honorable senator to resume his seat. 
.- On the report stage, I may be permitted to correct a statement made by  Senator Pearce.  I find in a leading Melbourne newspaper a statement by  Senator Pearce  contradicting our claim that Labour candidates have a free hand on fiscal questions. I take this opportunity to refer the Minister to a publication issued by the Labour party of New South Wales, rule 3 of which says that Labour party candidates shall have a free hand on the fiscal question. As this rule does not apply to the other States,  Senator Pearce  could easily make the mistake that he did. 
. I wish to refer to a matter which appears to me to be of vital interest to this country, namely, the establishment of an important industry in Australia. 
Very well; I shall do that. 
Bill reported without request. 
Motion (by  Senator Wilson)  pro posed - 
That the report be adopted. 
.- I desire to bring under the notice of the Minister for Home and Territories  (Senator Pearce)  a very important matter which I hoped would be included in the bill, but which, through force of circumstances, does not appear therein, namely, some provision regarding the proposed establishment of the paper pulp industry in Australia. 
I have not referred to the duty on newsprint. I wish merely to make a statement regarding the establishment of the industry in Australia; 
The honorable senator's desire may be most estimable, but his remarks are not relevant at this stage. The motion before the House is that the report be adopted and his remarks, to be in order, must be relevant to that question. To enter into a discussion on newsprint the honorable senator must move that the bill be recommitted. 
The honorable senator can speak on matters that are relevant. 
The honorable senator has informed me that he desires to make a statement regarding the establishment of an industry, and I rule that the honorable senator will not be in order in discussing that subject on this motion. The honorable senator will have an opportunity to deal with the matter to which he wishes to refer, on the Supply Bill which is to come before the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
I propose to make a few remarks at this stage, as this is a bill which may be debated on the motion for the first reading. I understand that the statement has been made by a Minister in the Senate that I gave my word that the party on this side would allow this and other bills to pass. 
I understand it was made by one of the Ministers in the Senate. 
I agreed with  Senator Pearce  to-day to facilitate the passage of the Supply Bill before the Senate adjourned, to enable honorable senators to attend the dinner to be given" to-night. I said I would facilitate the passage, not only of this bill, but of the whole of the business submitted. I told the honorable senator at the same time that I intended to speak upon this bill. I have never yet made an agreement with the Minister to curtail in any way the rights of honorable senators on this side.  Senator Pearce  is aware that I could not do that. 
That is so, and I think I have carried out that promise. On the principle of the redress of grievances before Supply it is usual, on the motion for the first reading of a Supply Bill to discuss, not only matters which it contains, but also matters to which it makes no reference. I have a grievance, and it is that the Government should propose to send us away from these comfortable chambers to contest an election, and that, too, in the spring of the year, when we are just beginning to enjoy our selves. Why is the Government adopting this course? I shall give the answer in the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce).  I quote what the right "honorable gentleman had to say, as reported in the Melbourne  Herald  of 22nd September, under the heading " Craven Cowardice " - 
We have seen the supremacy of Parliament undermined, and the maintenance of law and order challenged. These issues surely are great enough to stir to their depths a democratic people: but the issue before us goes much farther. We 'have seen this domination extend from the industrial to the political arena, and Governments of the duly-elected representatives of the people docilely obeying, th rough craven cowardice, the commands of a handful of extremists. The laws of the Commonwealth have been defied, the Constitution has .been challenged, and lawlessness and sedition have been openly preached. From Labour Governments in the States, and from Labour representatives iu the Commonwealth Parliament, encouragement and assistance have been given to those who are against the laws of Australia, and are openly for a system tried and found wanting in a foreign country. These crimes must be laid at the door of political Labour; it cannot shirk its responsibility. 
In these words the Prime Minister charges leaders of the Labour party in the Federal Parliament with crime, and asserts that they are criminals. I wei. come his challenge on those lines, because, fortunately, our leader in another place is a man whose character challenges comparison with that of any man of the highest integrity who has ever lived in Australia. For myself, I am too well known to put forward any excuse, but I still think that the Prime Minister, will have a job to convince the people who know me that I am a criminal. I intend now to indicate briefly what all the trouble is about. The Prime Minister says that he must go to the country to get more power. If there are in this country offenders against the law what greater power can he have to deal with them than that which he now has in the majority he commands in both Houses of this Parliament? He has in the Senate a majority of 24 to 12 and in another place a majority of 46 anti-labour members to 29 representatives of Labour. What more power does he think he will get? Surely the Government must be mad if it thinks it can get more power by an appeal to the electors. But if the Prime Minister is making his appeal to get  more power let us consider the issue which he has chosen. There is a strike of British seamen in progress, and I want to bring under the notice of honorable senators the opinion of a reverend gentleman in Brisbane, who, accompanied by his bishop, visited certain ships to learn the conditions under which British seamen are asked to work. I refer to the Reverend Farnham Maynard. 
I hope that he can be an out-and-out socialist and yet be worthy of his cloth. He appears to meto be one of the most worthy followers of the meek and lowly Nazarene that I have read about for some time. Evidently he is not afraid of the capitalist. I quote the following statement of the views he has expressed - 
In the course of his address last night Rev. Maynard said that occasions arose when questions of morality and justice were so interlocked with a dispute that it was plainly the duty of Christian men to express themselves. He believed, firstly, that it was the duty of every industry to provide for those who carried on the work conditions under which decent men could live decently. He had visited the ships, and, in his opinion, those conditions did not yet obtain. Secondly, in fighting the strike, the ship-owners were adopting methods which were not only immoral, but revolting to the last degree. If the public of this country could visualize what wag going on at home, he believed it would rise and demand, in the name ofthe honour of the British Empire, that those tactics should cease at once. The fact was that, in order to constrain the men on strike to return to work, the ship-owners were attacking their wives and families in England by stopping the allotment money paid them out of the men's wages. This policy would have little effect, if any, unless, as was well known, the wives of the men at sea were largely living on the verge of starvation, with no reserve funds. That being so, stopping the allotment meant that these women and young children, dependent upon the earnings of the sailor, must be driven to starvation or degradation. At the time of the great war, the Germans had bombarded the women in defenceless seaport towns. They could plead in justification that they hoped it would hasten their victory, and that, while the war lasted, their, own lives and those of their families were in danger. These ship-owners likewise attacked defenceless women and children, but they had not the Germans' excuse, for their lives were not at stake through the strike, but only their profits. It was not with the rights or wrongs of the dispute he was concerned, but his sympathy, as a man and a Christian, and as one who knew whatthe poverty of the great English cities meant, was wholly with the men in this aspect of their fight. 
That is to my mind a very important utterance. To show the conditions under which British seamen are called upon to work I refer honorable senators to the sworn testimony given bef ore the Deportation Board by the captain of one of the oversea vessels. William George Summers, captain of the  Tairoa,  said Dalgety's were the agents. He pointed out that the laying up of the ships was costing the owners £350 a day. He said - 
There were eighteen firemen and nine trimmers who handled 72 tons of coal a day . The coal was placed on the plates near the fires by the trimmers. No fans were in the men's quarters. Fifty-six men were affected by the £1 reduction a month. 
He went on to refer to the wages and the report of the proceedings continues in these words - 

 Mr. Watt (looking at the articles) : Hero is a young man - an ordinary seaman of twenty years - at £4 15s. a month. Is that a recognized wage? - Yes, under the Maritime Board. 
That man had an allotment of 30s. Presumably he has dependants? - Yes. 
Is any regard being paid to what it costs people to live? - No reply. 
It is fixed entirely irrespective of what it costs to live? - No reply. 
It is a little over £1 per week? - No answer. 

 Mr. Lamb : The wages are fixed by agreement ? - Yes. 
I ask honorable senators who are so keen against the strikers to say whether they would like to be able to send the whole of their earnings, assumingthat they amounted to the huge sum of £4 15s. per month, to their wives and families. Their dependants certainly would not live riotously if they received the whole amount. 
The honorable senator should remember that necessity knows no law. Here is the captain of a ship who swears that a young man on board ' is getting wages at the rate of £4 15s. per month. There was a reference to another case of a young man of 24 years of age who was getting £6 15s. a month. 
Yes, of course, his keep on board the ship. I think I can leave the matter at that. The Prime 
Minister claims that he has asked the Labour party to put a certain undesirable element out of the unions in order to prevent these strikes. I ask  Senator Pearce  and the other members of the Government whether they have made any appeals to the shipowners who are paying the magnificent wages of £4 15s. and £6 15s. a month to pay the £1 a month additional which is asked for by the British seamen, so that the strike might not continue. I venture to say that they have not done so. The Minister for Home and'1 Territories has not yet told me what the Deportation Board and its inquiry are costing. I. make no complaint on that score, because perhaps there has not been time to secure the. information. But I think I may say that on a reasonable estimate the Deportation Board and its proceedings are costing over a £100 a day. There are the fees of the members of the board, of counsel engaged by the Government, and officers attending the inquiry. The cost may bo up to '£200 a day. No time is fixed within which the board shall complete its inquiry. 
I have seen some statements in the newspapers on the subject, but there is all the difference in the world between what is being clone here and the carrying out of proceedings according to law. If persons are brought before a court and convicted of an offence for which the punishment under the law is deportation, whilst one might object to deportation as a punishment, he could not object to it being enforced in the ordinary courts of law. 
So far as British communities are concerned, deportation without a trial is not legal. It may bc daring on my part to make that statement, in defiance of the decision of the courts. 
In a time of war, a Government can do what 'it likes if the State is in danger; but in times of peace the words of Magna Charta apply just as if they were printed in our statutes. Chapter 39 of Magna Charta says - 
No free man shall be arrested or detained in prison or deprived of his freehold or banished or in any way molested, and we will not set forth against him nor send against him unless by lawful judgment of his .peers, and by the law of the land. 
Chapter 40 says - 
To none will we sell, to none will we deny or delay right or justice. 

 Sir James Mcintosh, in his  History of England,  pages 219 and 220, commenting on these chapters of Magna Charta, says - 
In these clauses of the Charta are clearly contained the habeas corpus and the trial by jury, the most effectual security against oppression which the wisdom of man has hitherto been able to devise. 
Taswell-Langmead,  writing on these clauses in  English Constitutional History,  page 103, says - 
There is a breadth about the simple language employed, as if those who wrote it felt that they were asserting universal principles of justice. 
Henceforth, it must have been a clear principle of our Constitution that no man can l&gt;e detained in prison without a trial. 
Blackstone, in his  Commentaries,  Vol. IV., page 424, says - lt protected every individual of the nation in the free enjoyment of his life, his liberty, and his property, unless declared to be forfeited by the judgment of his peers. 
Hallam, in his  History of the Middle 

 Ages, Vol. II., page 324, says that these chapters of Magna Charta - 
Protect the personal liberty and property cf all free men by giving security from arbitrary imprisonment and arbitrary spoliation. 
Creasy, in his  English Constitution,  page 151, says - 
The ultimate effect of this chapter was to give and to guarantee full protection for persons and property to every human being that breathes English air. 
I need not dilate any further on this aspect of the question. In times of peace, every man should have the right of trial in an ordinary court before a jury of his peers. Further than that, he should have the .right to be considered innocent until proof of his guilt has been adduced. That is a right which should not be parted with lightly. 
So much- the worse. A man may be engineering a strike for wicked purposes, and causing annoyance to every one; but our law provides that he must be brought . before a board to show cause why he should not be deported. 
If he has been "born outside Australia." Those words apply to persons born in England, Scotland, Ireland and Wales, as well as to those born in Germany and elsewhere. Would the honorable senator propose that men charged with attacks upon children or with committing brutal murders which stir up the indignation of the community should be arrested and brought before a board of three men, who are paid 25 guineas a day for their services, and be called upon te show cause why they should not be banished ? What would the honorable senator say if a provision were inserted in the criminal code placing upon every man arrested the onus of proving his innocence ? Yet that is what the Commonwealth Immigration Act provides. Our worst criminal has the right to appeal to a court of justice, confident that he will receive a fair trial ; but what, confidence can a man have - that he will get a fair trial when he is brought before a board appointed by the Government which is prosecuting him ? 
A judge holds his position free from the Government. He cannot be removed except by a majority vote in both Houses of Parliament, and then only for misconduct on his part. 
But no Government has yet seen fit to take steps to alter it in this respect, because it is every one's desire to keep our judges independent so that their judgment may be respected. Can there be any respect for a board of three trying two or three individuals against whom the Government has made no charge, but has simply called upon them to show cause why they should not be deported 1 If I were being tried by a board appointed by the Government and paid by the Government, with its remuneration dependent on the length of the trial, I should feel that no matter what evidence was brought forward, there would be only one verdict. The employees of the Government would find me guilty; otherwise they would not get another job of the same kind. We are slipping from those sound principles that have gained for British law and British courts the respect they have to-day. We can look back with pride and pleasure upon judgments given in our courts. At times we may rail against certain decisions, but on the whole we have much to be proud of, and that which we can be proud of we have a right, to preserve. It is often said that it is better that ten guilty men should go free than that one innocent man should be punished. Under this new method 100 innocent men may be punished, if they have to prove their .innocence. The Crown is not asked to produce evidence to prove the guilt of any one: A man is simply summoned to attend before a board and show cause why he should not be deported. This is a wide departure from the principles of justice we have been brought up to respect. The humblest worker in the country will feel his blood stir when he realizes that something which has been the proud possession of the British people for over 700 years is being filched from them by incompetents who are now in control of this Commonwealth. No one can claim that the method of trial before a board is quicker than a trial by jury. I saw a cartoon the other day depicting the end of the trial which is now in progress. It showed members of the board who are now sprightly middle-aged men as gray-haired veterans. The rate of progress must be exceedingly slow. A statistician has produced figures to show the number of days and the amount of wages that have been lost by the workers during a period of years. Probably it will be found necessary to take the evidence of men who have lost that time and those wages to prove their loss. And if that evidence be admitted it will then be necessary to call other -men to prove that neither time nor wages were lost. I ask  Senator Pearce  will he get a statistician to go before the board and show how much time and money has been lost in Australia through people watching five test cricket matches or attending the spring race meetings in Melbourne and Sydney. Will he go further and have an estimate made of the loss of time and money occasioned in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide through attendance at football matches? These are only fair comparisons to make with the estimated loss of time in wages through industrial troubles. As I have every desire to expedite the passage of this bill so that the session may be brought to a close, I leave the matter at this stage. 
I intend to be very brief. In view of the prolonged discussion in the Senate to-day on the question of national taxation I am sure honorable senators would be disappointed if I did not refresh their memories and place before  them  for their consumption during the recess into which we are about to enter some facts which will enable them to come back with a' clearer conception of a system of taxation that would conform to the principles of equity and justice. For many years we have, unfortunately for want of locally developed ideas, slavishly followed those which have been in operation in Great Britain and other countries, failing to realize that those ideas have assisted in rapidly producing in Australia precisely the same conditions as those which prevail in those older and more settled countries. The result is that notwithstanding the many ameliorative acts which have been forced on the statute-book by the Labour party, and in some instances by other parties, unless an alteration takes place we must have here a condition of affairs which will be very much to our discredit This will be largely due to our method of taxing the people not in proportion to the value of the land they own, but in proportion to the value of the services they render to the community at large. I ask honorable senators seriously if it is not time to boldly tackle this question of taxation, and make an effort to place it on a basis that will give satisfaction to every honest person in the community. In New South Wales, thanks mainly to the efforts of  Sir Joseph  Carruthers, we have probably the finest system of municipal taxation existing in any part of the world: The result is that to-day there is no taxation of industries by local bodies in that State. That is a distinct advantage, and is mainly responsible for the continued progress of New South Wales. Such a system must be in operation for many years before it comes into full bearing. Even at the present day, on account of the difficulty of correctly assessing land, it is almost impossible to make the system fully operative. Local owners of vacant blocks leave nothing, undone to prevent the Valuer-General from accurately valuing their properties. In consequence, many lands have yet to be valued, and some valuations are so faulty that the owners are escaping their just share of taxation. When those defects are adjusted, and all lands are valued under the same system, the recent progress of New South Wales will be greatly eclipsed. That system of taxation is the main reason why the building trade and allied occupations in that State, and, incidentally, in other parts of the Commonwealth have been so busy in recent years. The principles underlying municipal taxation in New South Wales are clearly laid down by Henry George in his well-known book on economics,  Progress and Poverty. 
Undoubtedly he is. He has completely wiped the floor with John Stuart Mill' and other men of the same out-of-date school of economics. Upon the false doctrines promulgated by them the taxation of Great Britain has been. built up, and Australia has slavishly followed the Old Country's example. 
He is the greatest economist that the world has produced.  His  principles of taxation are so clear and logical that nobody can successfully challenge them. I propose to read for the guidance of honorable senators what Henry George terms " the canons of taxation," in the hope that they will be prepared in the near future, notwithstanding the possibility of conflict with old established authorities and vested interests, to advocate them. Henry George wrote in Chapter 3, page 406: - 
The best tax by which public revenues can be raised is evidently that which will closest conform to the following conditions: 
That it bears lightly as possible upon production - so as least to check the increase of the general fund from which taxes must be paid and the community maintained. 
That it be easily and cheaply collected, and fall as directly as may be upon the ultimate payers - so as to take from the people as little as possible in addition to what it yields to the Government. 
That it be certain - so as to give the least opportunity for tyranny and corruption on the part of officials, and the least temptation to lawbreaking and evasion on the part of taxpayers. 
That it bear equally so as to give no citizen an advantage, or put any at a disadvantage, as compared with others. 
I welcome  Senator Pearce's  correct description of the paragraph I have just read. I daresay that the honorable gentleman could, without great effort, recite the whole of that paragraph from memory. At one time he not only held those views, but was prepared to express and act upon them. Unfortunately, his political associations during recent years have completely submerged his earlier and better views, and he introduces into this Chamber taxation bills of a most complicated character, which will be costly to administer, and in no respect conform to the principles laid down by  the late Henry George. No man in the Commonwealth is more anxious to do right than I am, and no man applies himself more closely to the study of those problems which, in my opinion, must be solved before we can bring about those conditions which all desire to see established in the Commonwealth. The fact cannot be gainsaid that, in this country, which some of my colleagues characterize as their own, but in which many thousands of people may live only if they pay the rent regularly every Monday morning, although there is approximately 3,000,000 square miles of territory, it is most difficult for anyone to become possessed of a freehold or even a leasehold block. It is regrettable that the members of the Empire Press Delegation are not present to-day to hear the facts I am relating in regard to the conditions in Australia, so that they might be able to place them before the people of Great Britain. Of course, it is very unpleasant for those honorable senators who desire to hide the true state of affairs to listen to the facts I am revealing. The following statement, which has been compiled in New South Wales during the last few months from the records of the Lands office, shows the number of applications for homestead blocks during the present year: - 

<graphic href="111332192509241_36_0.jpg"></graphic>

That table indicates more clearly than anything I could say the extreme difficulty of obtaining land in New South Wales. The position in other States is very similar. These facts the members of the Empire Press Delegation should broadcast throughout the United Kingdom, so that the people there may know exactly the conditions which will confront them if they come to Australia in the hope of selecting land. This is the experience of a young Australian who desired to go upon the land in New South Wales - 
Having decided to go on the landas a means of livelihood, I went to the Government Experiment Farm at Bathurst in the year 1916.I was seventeen at the time, and after having spent twelve months at that institution, during which time I gained the  Daily Telegraph  wheat scholarship, I decided to obtain further experience. I worked on various farms where the conditions for workers were far from good, and the wages ranged from the magnificent remuneration of £1 to 25s. and keep. 
In 1918I enlisted, but was discharged some months later, owing to the cessation of hostilities. I then went back to the bush to gain further experience, and in 1920 commenced to ballot for land, as that was the only way I could see of getting a start on my own, the ridiculously high prices asked for private land, together with the high cost of plant - thanks to our robbing tariff - putting any other proposition out of the question. Since 1920 till now, myself and brother - who has had over seven years' experience in the country - have taken part in ballots for over 70 blocksin New South Wales and Queensland; between 50 and60 in the former State, without ever having had a draw. 
-Order! I point out that the Standing Orders provide that an honorable senator may not read his speech. I have permitted the honorable senator to read lengthy quotations, but if he continues along those lines it will be tantamount to reading his speech. 
I was surprised at the nature of a number of the speeches recently delivered by the Prime Minister  (Mr. Bruce)  with regard to communists, " reds " and bolsheviks. Let me tell him that the election will not be fought on that issue, but on the subject of deportation. Personally I am entirely opposed to the deportation of Britishers from one part of the Empire to another, although I realize that selfgoverning communities claim that they are entitled to exercise that power. 
Prior to leaving for South Australia to assist in the return of the Labour candidates for the Senate in my State, I wish to place on record one or two statements that I think will be of interest to the electors. I do not propose to block the business that the Government desires to complete. I am' sure that it needs money. Members of the Deportation Board are only receiving 25 guineas a day each. I am given to understand on good authority that they are shrewd men, and are determined to have a good "cut" out of the public purse. Of course I realize that nothing of value will result from the board's appointment. Members of the Ministry have fallen down on their job, and they are afraid of the deportation law that has been passed. It is pleasing to know that at least some of the important newspapers in Great Britain do not agree with what the Bruce Government says about Labour. I shall read what the  Manchester Guardian  thinks. 
I presume that it knows something, because it has its advisers in Australia, but I make bold to say that  Senator Reid  knows nothing about it. 
I notice that the authorities in the United States of America wanted to deport to this country another Australian named Walsh, and this Government refused to permit him to land. 
No. The South Australian Government has no power in the matter. The  Manchester Guardian  states - 
The shipping strikehas given  Mr. Bruce  a chance, which he considers too good to miss, of discrediting the growing power of Labour, which seems on the clear road again to command Federal politics. " Responsible leaders of the Labour party," the paper continues, "though firmly dissociating themselves from the strike and the activities of communists and I.W.W. workers, cannot support extreme measures of the Commonwealth, such as the appointment of special police and Deportation Courts. The right and left wings of Labour are temporarily drawn nearer for the purpose of resisting repressive measures.  Mr. Bruce's  slogan has little relation to the principle involved. The Australian Labour party, however,has been much damaged by an accident forcing it into sympathy with the present strikers. It had its roots planted before bolshevism was heard of, and does not show . signs of turning communistic." 
  That is a sound statement by a sane 
English newspaper. Far from the turmoil in Australia, it can take a dispassionate view of the subject of deportation. Of course, I extend my sympathy to the Government on its having become panicky, since in that condition it is capable of almost anything. It has placed on the statute-book a measure of which it is already ashamed. It has a majority in both Houses at the present time, but it knows full well that it will return from the election with fewer supporters than it now possesses. I have an idea that the Prime Minister will be glad to be beaten at the polls, because of the untenable position in which he finds himself. Doubtless he prays that he will be defeated so that he will not have to carry the burdensome baby that the deportation hill has thrust into his arms. Some of the endorsed candidates for Parliamentary honours are honest, although they may not be discreet.  Mr. H.  S. Gullett, the Nationalist candidate for Henty, has suggested a fine way of getting rid of the men that the Government desires to deport. He thinks that the Prime Minister is too slow. He would do the deed by night, and this is the way he would do it- 
Communism certainly has a hold in Australia, and if I had been in power I would have slapped up Walsh, Johannsen, and the bolshevik Garden, and deported them without any trial - 
Now we are hearing what is in the minds of Government supporters.  Mr. Gullett  proceeded - and taken them away in the night in a Navy boat, and made certain that they would never come back. 
I read into that statement that  Mr. Gullett  would simply toss them overboard - murder them.  Mr. Gullett  is a Nationalist candidate, who expects to come into this Parliament and sit behind the present inept Government. What is at the back of  Mr. Gullett's  mind is also at the back of  Senator Thompson's  mind. The proceedings of the past two days have been the most indecent that have ever taken place in this Senate. We should have had this bill yesterday morning, and the Government should have abstained from window-dressing and handing out doles to placate different sections of the community. 
That increase should have been made retrospective. I refer to the Government handing out doles to big interests. 
I do not forget anything. I have not forgotten that  Senator Duncan  two years ago, when dealing with the maternity allowance, compared the mothers of Australia with the beeves of Queensland. That is on record in  Hansard,  and the people of New South Wales will not forget it. 
Now that  Senator Duncan  knows that he is beaten, and is aware of what is in store for him in a month's time, he lets loose his nasty old tongue. The people of New South Wales, when they get the opportunity, will let loose something more than their tongue on him. They will let loose their votes. 
The honorable senator is not even a decent, common larrikin. 
He referred to rae incidentally as a larrikin, and I say that he is a liar. 
Offensive expressions of that kind must not be made. I remind  Senator  McHugh  that he was the first to make an offensive reference to  Senator Duncan.  I ask him to withdraw the expression, which is offensive to  Senator Duncan,  and to apologize. 
I did not understand  Senator Duncan  to say that  Senator  McHugh  was a larrikin. If he did say so, I ask him to withdraw. 
1 did not understand  Senator Duncan  to refer to  Senator  McHugh  as a larrikin. Had he done so, I should be as ready to protect  Senator  McHugh  as any other honorable senator. 
.- I cannot allow Parliament to close without bringing under the notice of the Minister the very important proposal to establish the paper pulp industry in Tasmania. Very complete investigations have been made by a certain company, which has secured an option over a large tract of heavily-timbered country, and is prepared to incur considerable expendi ture in the manufacture of paper pulp. Representatives of the company have placed their case before the Tariff Board, and that body has made a report to the Government. Unfortunately, it has not been possible for the Government to come to a final determination concerning the recommendations of the board, but I hope that the matter will be finalized as soon as possible. Owing to the delay the company has been obliged, at a cost of £5,000, to acquire an extension of the option, in addition to £650 a month, representing interest on the capital cost of the property to be acquired. It is stated that the capital to be invested will reach about £2,000,000, and that when the industry is in full swing it will give employment to 4,000 or 5,000 people. It is essential that the Government should make an announcement without delay, because the company's option over the property will expire in December and many preliminary details have to be attended to before this important key industry can be launched. It goes without saying that  a  favorable decision will mean much to Tasmania. Unfortunately, unemployment is rife in my State and to meet our obligations to the Commonwealth it is essential that we should retain and increase our population. 
The matter mentioned by  Senator Payne  has been before the Government for some considerable time, and is receiving full and serious consideration. The representatives of the company referred to know what is being done. Every one of the points mentioned by  Senator Payne  has been receiving the attention of the Government and has been before the Tariff Board. It is the intention of the Government to make a definite statement as soon as possible, having full regard to the interests of Tasmania and the Commonwealth. I should also like to place on record, as  Senator Gardiner  has done, a few comments with regard to the question which he raised, and I shall be  very brief. The honorable senator spoke of the high regard of members of the Labour party for the liberties of the people, the rights secured to them by  Magna Charta,  and how they reverenced the principle of trial by jury. Let us examine recent history and see what has happened. A few years ago a number of men were indicted before a judge and  jury in New South Wales for a very heinous crime. After a careful trial by a judge and jury they were convicted and sentenced to certain terms of imprisonment. The State Labour party took up their case, and announced that if it were returned to power it would take steps to release them. It did so. A Labour government appointed a judge of another State as a royal commission to review the evidence. The commissioner's finding did not acquit the men. Nevertheless, their sentences were cut down, and they were released from jail. 
I understand that no evidence was called. These men were released by the then Labour Government of New South Wales. One of them,  Mr. Donald  Grant, will figure as a distinguished colleague of  Senator Gardiner  at the forthcoming Federal election. 
So much for the admiration of the Labour party for the rights of Magna Charta ! So much for the admiration and esteem of the Labour party for the principle of trial by jury ! 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
.- I move- 
That the bill be now read  a second  time. 
Supply has already been granted by Parliament to provide for the ordinary services of the Government up to the end of October. In view of the forthcoming dissolution, it is necessary to obtain additional Supply before the present Parliament expires. I am, therefore; submitting the third Supply Bill for the current financial year. The amount asked for is £8,436,553, made up as follows: - 

<graphic href="111332192509241_41_0.jpg"></graphic>

This provision is intended to cover approximately five months' expenditure, which, with the Supply already granted, will provide funds sufficient to carry on up to the 31st March, 1926. The Supply already granted totals £7, 782,055, covering a period of four months, which compares with the total of the present bill, £8,436,553, to cover a period of five months. Omitting Treasurer's advance, which was granted in previous Supply, and refunds of revenue, the Supply already granted, and that now being asked for, amount to £14,118,608.. As previously stated, this will cover nine months' expenditure. Three-fourths of the total estimated expenditure under votes in respect of which Supply is granted is £14,307,255. It will be seen, therefore, that the funds asked for are less than three-fourths of the total estimated expenditure for the year. Provision is made for the full cost of the general elections, which is set down at £98,930. No provision is made for services of which Parliament has not already approved. 
No. 
. -If there is no provision in the bill for the payment of the Deportation Board, I should like to know what the members of that tribunal arc doing. Are they volunteers? From the way in which the board is working it looks as if the hearing of the cases before that tribunal will go on for another six months ; and if they are getting 25 guineas a day each, substantial provision should be made for them. We have heard a good deal about the "go-slow" tactics of certain people in this country. If the members of this board are receiving 25 guineas a day, is it likely they will hurry through their work and get back to, say, a mere ten guineas a week? The Government should not tempt barristers and members of the board to "go slow." 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 

 In committee: 

Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 (Issue and application of £8,436,553). 
I move- 
That the House of Representatives be requested  to  increase the  amount  by £1,000,000. 
I submit this request because, in my opinion, the Government should make ample provision for the remuneration of the Deportation Board. I should also like to take advantage of this opportunity to reply to the remarks of  Senator Pearce  concerning  Mr. Donald  Grant, who -is to be one of my colleagues at the forthcoming election. 
The honorable senator's request is not in order. It is not competent for this committee to propose to increase the amount. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 3 and 4 agreed to. 
Schedule, preamble and title agreed to. 
Bill reported without request; report adopted. 
Bill read a third time. 
 I move- 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
On behalf of my colleagues and myself, I wish to express our appreciation of the consideration and courtesy that has been extended to us during the session. In some degree it has been a strenuous time, but on the whole we have received gener ous consideration from honorable senators on both sides of the chamber. Occasionally, of course, the Opposition has been a little troublesome, but that, I suppose, is natural. We wish, also,  Mr. President,  to express our appreciation of the manner in which you have conducted the proceedings of the Senate, and of the excellent services rendered by the  Chairman  of Committees  (Senator Newland).  We appreciate, likewise, the work done by  Hansard  and members of the staff generally, and are proud to know that they are well maintaining the high traditions of the Senate. As this will probably be the last meeting of the Senate before Christmas, I extend to honorable senators the best wishes of the Government for a happy Christmas. We are approaching an election. I suppose that we cannot all expect to have the good fortune to be returned ; and perhaps the best thing I can do is to wish honorable senators the fate they deserve. 
I promised  Senator Gardiner  that 1 would obtain for him certain information in regard to the board constituted under the provisions of the Immigration Restriction Act. The honorable senator asked - 
What fees are paid to the members of the Deportation Board? 
Is the amount of £25 mentioned by  Mr. Bruce  paid to each member of the board for his services per day or per hour? 
What fees are being paid to  Mr. Lamb? 
In addition to  Mr. Lamb's  fees, does he receive a large sum at frequent intervals in accordance with the custom of the profession under the heading of refreshers? - 
What is the cost of the board's inquiry to date? 
Has the Government put any limit to its expenditure? 
The replies are -  1 and 2. Twenty-five guineas per day for each member, but in view of the protracted nature of the inquiry, this matter is to be reconsidered. 
I am not aware of the amount of fees being paid. 

 Mr. Lamb will receive fees under the heading mentioned. 
I do not know. 
No. 
.- I . join heartily with the Leader of the Government  (Senator Pearce)  in thanking all those associated with the business of the Senate for the efficiency and ability with which they have discharged their respective duties  during the session. They make it easy for honorable senators to do their work.  Senator Pearce  observed that some members of the Opposition are at times a little troublesome. I do not offer any very humble apologies, but I must admit that I am often a bit unmanageable. 

 Senator Pearce was astute enough not to make available his information in regard to the Deportation Board while the Supply Bill was before the Senate. He promised to provide me with the information on the adjournment, and he has kept his promise. Seeing that the Govern-, ment could not provide an allowance of  £1  a week for an attendant for an exsoldier who had lost both his legs - I refer to the case mentioned last night by  Senator J.  Grant- it is most unfair that it should pay the members of the Deportation Board 25 guineas a day. In the first place, the board should not be tolerated, and, in the second, its members should not receive anything like that fee.  Senator Pearce  this morning challenged me to state the fees being paid to  Mr. Watt,  K.C. I am not quite sure of the amount, but I know that from the position he occupies in the professional life of Sydney, he would get the highest fee paid to the best barrister there. I dare say that  Mr. Lamb  will be getting a somewhat similar fee. I feel sure that his fee and the refreshers that will be paid to him from time to time by the Government will amount to about 50 guineas a day. I do not desire to conclude my remarks on this occasion with a threat. I said a little while ago that I thought the board should be kept in operation. I now think that it is too costly. When the Labour party is returned after the election it will undoubtedly impeach this Government for sedition for introducing legislation contrary to British principles. It will do so in this Chamber. We shall have a majority after the elections, so that we will be able to do this. If we have not a majority, of course, we shall not do it. I believe, however, that after the elections we shall be able to inflict on those who have been responsible for the constitution of this board fines heavy enough to recoup the country for the cost of that inquiry.  We . shall not have our majority until next June, but I assure the members of the Government that then they will be tried here according to the principles of constitutional government as laid down in the 
British Constitution, and according to the practice of the House of Commons. That method will be less costly, and, I think, more effective than the one adopted by the Government and I believe that it will be more in keeping with the wishes of the people. 1 can hardly wish honorable senators many happy returns of the 14th November, but I join most heartily with  Senator Pearce  in wishing them the fate they deserve. That is&gt; an excellent phrase in which to express the kindly feelings that should prevail between the members ' of the various political parties. Whilst our political system makes it the duty of honorable members in this Chamber to fight  as strongly as they can against their opponents - and if we are in earnest we will not mind hard-hitting - I do not think that the members of any party bear ill-will towards each other. We fight strenuously on political grounds, but personally I feel that we are all attempting, according to our lights,' to do the very best we can in the interests of our country. I join in wishing honorable senators a merry Christmas and happy New Year. 
I feel that I must accept this opportunity to express my appreciation of the excellent work that our official reporters have done. It is a great pleasure to me to read the speeches I deliver. I sometimes wonder how  Hansard  manages to report them so well. 
I listened very carefully to the remarks made by  Senator Pearce  with respect to  Mr. Donald  Grant, who, in my opinion, was wrongly convicted. The judge who recommended that his sentence should be repealed did the right thing. Honorable senators will find when they come to know him, as they will soon have the opportunity of doing, that he is a most capable man. He will make his way in this Senate. It is most unfair that an attempt should have been made here to disparage him, seeing that he has no chance of replying. 
I do, and  Senator Newland  knows it. 
The  PRESIDENT (Senator the  Hon. 
Givens). - Before putting the motion, I wish to thank  Senator Pearce  for his references to myself. I wish also to express, on behalf of honorable senators generally, and myself, our appreciation of the good work done during the session by the officers of the  Hansard  staff, officers at the table, and the staff generally, under circumstances that at. times have been very trying. They have worked long hours and discharged their duties excellently, and without complaint. I am sure that every honorable senator appreciates the service which they so conscientously render. 
This is the last sitting of this Senate. I therefore wish to specially thank all who have assisted me, and so sympathetically considered me, in the discharge of my duties. Seeing that we are on the eve of an election and do not know who will be returned to this chamber, I desire to inform honorable senators that I shall not again be a candidate for the presidency. Increasing years and somewhat failing health will not permit me to give that close and constant service which long and strenuous sittings of the Senate demand of the occupant of the Chair. I feel that in the future I shall notbe able to give that constant attention which is required to efficiently carry out the presidential duties. I thought it only right that I should make this statement. I sincerely thank honorable senators and all who have given me their consistent support and assistance during the twelve years I have had the honour to occupy this position. While I have been in the chair I have endeavoui'ed to know no party, to hold the scales evenly, and to conserve the honour and dignity  of  the Senate. I trust that I have to some extent succeeded in my efforts. 
Honorable Senators. - Hear, hear ! 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
